Will the Prime Minister take steps to institute an urgent review of rural indebtedness and of the fall in business activity in many country centres due to the hangover from the drought, recent decisions by Government on the handling, financing and marketing of various primary products and failure to resolve the problem of rising costs? 
The point at issue in this debate seems in danger of being lost. The point at issue as raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is whether action should be taken to help meet the growing economic crisis in the countryside. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who has just resumed his seat, replied to the honourable member for Dawson. The substance of his speech is that there is no real urgency about the problems in the country areas, that all we on this side of the House are doing is calamity howling, that the Government's programme has been fantastic and that all of the help that has been given to primary industries by the Government for 20 years has been - I use his word - gigantic. So I gather that all is well and nothing further need be done. 
The Minister referred to his ride into Jerilderie. I am glad he mentioned that, because I was delighted to see him in the Riverina. But he rode into Jerilderie wilh a very simple message. He addressed a meeting of nearly 2,000 people, which was sponsored by sixty local government and other bodies to discuss the very crisis that he now denies should be a cause of concern to this Parliament. He said: 'I have every sympathy with you, but I feel that all possible help has been given. However, if you are in trouble, for goodness sake keep quiet about it.' That was his message. I recognise that the Minister has his warm supporters, but despite them the rank and file of the people of Jerilderie would have preferred a visit from the other historic character who rode into the town some years before and who at a time of crisis did something positive by burning up all the mortgages he found in the Bank. I am not suggesting that should be done now, but there is a contrast between the one who arrives with tea and sympathy and the other who was stirred to do something more than say 'Keep quiet'. 
As the Minister has mentioned the meeting at Jerilderie I think we ought to examine what was said. The people at it asked the Parliament here and the members who represent them to consider the problems they posed. The  President  of a Riverina graziers organisation, who is hardly a roaring radical but is a gentleman of great substance and standing whom I respect, told the meeting that the crisis in the countryside was an immediate problem for the Government. He said: 'Our competitors secure a wide range of support from their governments. Our farmers were encouraged to expand production and now they are being dumped.' The Minister is fond of quoting the support he receives from the spokesmen of rural industries. The  President  of the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales put his finger on wool as one of the keys to the rural crisis. He said in one of his rare bursts of radicalism: 'Let the Government do something now about the price of wool'. Another wool industry spokesman said that the returns to wool growers were down by 14% but the profitability for the people who were between the grower and the consumer was up by 11%. 
The dairy industry spokesman did not seem satisfied at all. He said it was a paradox that the farmers who were second in efficiency in the world and who were receiving the least support in the world were in fact under constant attack and had not been getting anything other than tea and sympathy. The  Chairman  of the Rice Marketing Board, in a discussion about the help that is being given to primary producers by way of subsidies, put his finger on the key point when he said: 'Help for whom? Of course, subsidies are mentioned in the city Press and it looks as though every primary producer in the nation gets a cheque in the mail.' I might say,  Mr Speaker,  1 only ever met one who received a cheque in the mail. When I told him I had never met any he said :'I got one. I used to have chooks and when I went out of business they gave me a rebate on the hen tax. Here it is  -  $2.10.' 
In fact the Government has made large sums of money available to the fertiliser complex,  $5  1 m, but what happens? What is the result of this? The manufacturers receive the assistance and the growers get an increase in price, as it ultimately comes about. There is no direct subsidisation in the fertiliser field at all. 
Let us look at this business of whether there is validity in our submission today, which was put so well by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  that there is a crisis in the countryside. In Victoria in recent weeks 3,000 people have gathered together. The Minister for Primary Industry went to one of those meetings, I might add, and probably had something to say about the crisis in addition to what he said today. These 3,000 people were gathered together by a gall'ant little band of people from the little town of Edenhope. The burden of their message was that they were in trouble; that there was a crisis and that it had to be tackled by the Government. This is what 3,000 people said. There is to be a march of farmers up Collins Street in Melbourne - upset farmers, concerned farmers. The Minister said we should not be raising these silly things in the national Parliament; that we have more important things to do. What is more important than the survival of the rural areas of the nation? The Minister recounted what the Government had done for 20 years. It was all right for him to do that but he was not expressing the view of rural Australia at the present time. If he was then what are farmers doing marching up Collins Street? Then we have  Sir Henry  Bolte, that well-known radical, saying: 'I think we ought to support them'. Therefore if we of the Opposition are all wrong we are in extraordinarily good company. The smiling face of Australia, as seen by the Government, does not exist in rural1 Australia. 
Of the crisis in rural industry about which we are talking there was not a hint in the Governor-General's Speech. According to that address, everything is well and the economy is strong. It has a new resilience and has overcome all the problems created by drought, international tensions and financial tensions. The Government says there is no crisis anywhere. Yet rural poverty is getting worse. This has been documented - it is known. It is known to the Minister. If he has any doubts about this I am sure that if he looks at the statistics he will see exactly what is happening in regard to rural poverty in his own part of the world. 
It is pretty obvious,  Mr Speaker,  that the motion moved here today by the Opposition is one that is desired across the nation, in every State, and it should have been treated in a responsible way. The Minister went back over 20 years and said that everything that could be done had been done; that there were no new avenues to be explored. It would seem that that was his reply. I have attended meetings at which everyone says that the Government is in sympathy and that the Opposition is in sympathy. If this Parliament thinks that everything that can be done has been done, then obviously for 20 years there has been nobody present here with any responsibility at all for the rural industries now being in trouble. 
How is it that the rural areas are in trouble? Is there a denial today by the Minister that in fact there is a crisis? Is there a claim made that Australia has a national agricultural policy? There was a reference made by the Minister to the need or desire to dictate to the farmers. That is not the case. All that the farmers have asked for, all that the rank and file have asked for, at every gathering convened in the last half year, is for some guidance from the Government. 
Here we are now within 6 weeks of sowing wheat and the farmers do not know what they should do, what they can do or what they will be paid for. The Government has lost control of the situation to such a degree,  Mr Speaker,  that we will never know how much wheat actually was produced in 1969-70. The Minister at one stage said that there was no real worry about the black market. No worry! No concern! The Minister was prepared to concede that there would be a percentage of wheat which would be sold on the black market. The estimate is 20m bushels. It is an estimate; it is a guesstimate. We will never know. Here we are at the present time with some wheat on the farms, some quota wheat not delivered. Other farmers have delivered over their quotas and do not know what over quota wheat they will be paid for. Is it suggested that there has not been an abdication of Government responsibility in this direction? When the matter is raised with the Minister he says that this is a matter for the industry or a matter for the States. Yet it is here in the Commonwealth Parliament that the fiscal responsibility lies and this is where responsibility should lie for a national agricultural policy. Despite all the activity by the Government in the past 20 years, we face this crisis now. There is a clearly defined need for a national agricultural policy to give the producer an opportunity to rise to the challenge. That is what the producer wants. 
So far as the seriousness of the situation is concerned, 1 have pages of documentation concerning my own area. Let me just cite one town as an example of the situation and of this crisis which is real and cannot be denied. I refer to a town in which every business house and the co-operative gathered together and announced in the local Press that all credit had finished, that it had ended, that it had to be cash or nothing because of the crisis confronting primary industry. These are not people seeking a pretty apology for a parry record. These are people who are in trouble. I might say that they are not terribly interested in party politics at the present time. They are not terribly interested in politics. But these people have made their protests. They are protesting now. They demand action because there is a crisis in primary industry. What is more, the honourable member for Dawson has done a national service by raising this matter today and I am happy to stand with him. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was sorry to hear the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  oppose this .measure at least in words if not in the vote on the mistaken grounds that in his mind it is some kind of act of charity. I must go on record as saying that neither the problems of the wheat industry nor its importance to the nation have been understood by the honourable member. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has simply supported the case for a national forward planning in agriculture. I accept the criticism, if that is what he meant it to be, of the honourable member for Bradfield that the responsibility - I think, the blame was what he had in mind - for wheat stabilisation lay with the previous administration. Presumably from what he said, he would not have had any part of it nor supported it at the time.  His  query on interest was more to the point and I will comment on that at a later stage. 
The need for this Bill lies in legislation that was first enacted a half a century ago. It seems to me that it is well out of date with present day circumstances and requirements. I refer to the rural advances provisions of the Reserve Bank Act which, in 1922, first stipulated that all money advances to marketing boards must be repaid within 1 year. As the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  indicated in his second reading speech, this legislation is needed to ensure that Government commitments to the wheat industry in relation to the 1963-69 crop are met. I would commend to the Treasurer for his consideration - and I hope that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  who is at the table will take the suggestion to him - that an amendment might be made to the Reserve Bank Act in relation to advances to marketing boards. The Act might be amended to read, perhaps, 'at the discretion of the Minister' or 'at the discretion of the Governor-General in Council', so that in fact the old section requiring 12-monthly repayments would be scrapped. It would give time for large pools to clear and for accounts to be properly processed. 
I am glad that the Treasurer mentioned in his second reading speech that this would bc the first time since stabilisation was introduced more than 20 years ago that the Commonwealth has been called upon under the guarantee. In the current wheat debate across the nation the danger exists of the view being accepted that the wheat industry has been some kind of liability and that wheat growers have been literally reaping a bonanza that has kept them in great comfort. The facts of the matter need to be known and appreciated. The wheat industry under the stabilisation scheme has played a major role in national development. It has led to the effective occupation and utilisation of lands that were once held to be beyond the bounds of closer settlement. The industry has contributed on the balance, on my calculations anyway, of probably $300m to maintain stable prices at home and to keep the constituents of the honourable member for Bradfield at least with some semblance of price stability. I might mention that if today the housewife in the city pays more for bread and the wheat grower receives less, this is hardly the responsibility of the wheat grower. 
I think the honourable member for Bradfield might ask wherein lies this spread of cost between the producer and the consumer. 
The honourable member for Mallee says: 'In the wage structure of course'. It might be Interesting for the honourable member for Mallee to know that economists retained by primary producers organisations give 25% as the figure for wages in relation to overall cost of production. So, wages are not the only component that need to be looked at. There are a great many other things to be looked at, and I commend to him a study of those too particularly in relation to supporting services. 
It is often forgotten that, in the interests of stabilisation - and, of course, this is a comment that I make in relation to that $300m - growers sold dear abroad because the marketing opportunities were there but cheap at home and for a significant period. This was done without complaint and on the clear understanding that if there were marketing difficulties at any time the Government would be true not only to the letter but also to the spirit of the contract with the industry. It is as well to recall that it is not so long ago that growers were being urged to produce more wheat. It is not so long ago that wheat from Canada was imported into New South Wales. The unique situation that the Treasurer refers to in his second reading speech should not be a signal for panic or for a call to abandon the support of the wheat industry, which seems to be accepted in the remarks for the honourable member for Bradfield. In the whole of my life I cannot recall a situation such as existed in the 1969-70 season where all the great wheat producing nations across the world had a good season. They all came in well together. This is a unique situation. It may well be that with improvements in technology the danger of famine or glut in the future will be different from what it is today. It may well be that we are more likely to have a glut than a famine, but this is conjecture at this stage. After all, we have not learned to control the seasons or the weather. So the situation will change and it could change quite dramatically. It is for this reason that there is a firm and clear responsibility to make adjustments to continue stabilisation. These adjustments have been acknowledged as being demanded by the unique situation which we now face. It should also be clearly understood that wheat is one of the main props of the Australian economy. It has not only contributed to export income in a major way but also has helped to ward off disasters in Asia when famine has threatened. Today it is helping to support a wide range of services, such as State railways. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to authorise the Commonwealth to borrow up to $300m in order to make a loan to the Australian Wheat Board. Let us be clear on this point: lt is a loan and it will have to be repaid. The money goes firstly to the Board and then to the growers. It will be spread throughout the community. There is no question of this money constituting a handout or charity; this loan represents no more than a meeting of proper contractual obligations. It might be remembered that one-quarter of this money will find its way into the accounts of the State railways, not into the pockets of wheat growers. I was interested in the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech that he will now fix the terms and conditions of the loan. He has served notice of his intention to charge the rate of interest charged for government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. I would submit that the Treasurer is planning to lend with one hand and take away with the other. This matter was raised directly with the Treasurer earlier today. He was asked whether he would use the increased interest rate that is to apply generally in order to levy a new tax on wheat growers. The Treasurer admitted that the general prosperity which he claimed was universal was not at present being enjoyed by the rural sector. He also said that he had had talks with the Governor of the Reserve Bank on the matter of bank interest, but he could have linked up his remarks this afternoon with what he said in his second reading speech because he had already served notice that the current conditions laid down by the Rural Credits Department in relation to government guaranteed loans would apply. 
Since this Government took office in 1949 the rate of interest on these loans has increased from 3J% to 5%. Honourable members will be interested to know that in relation to the 1968-69 pool growers will face interest of $2Sm or Se a bushel on the 515 million bushels received. On another occasion when the wheat industry was in serious trouble Prime Minister Chifley reduced the rate of interest from 4% to  3i%  in order to help growers. In view of the need to inject confidence and collateral into the countryside I ask the Treasurer to consider reducing the interest rate. He has an excellent precedent for doing so, set by a great Prime Minister. 
The Bill is made necessary by an outdated provision of the Reserve Bank Act. No country would operate on the basis that all the wheat would be received, sold and paid for in 1 year. To suggest that such a system be followed is totally unrealistic. The whole situation should be re-examined. The interest charged at present has a bearing on the burden being carried by wheat growers - a burden of high costs, inefficiency of supporting services and unrealistic government decisions relating to the cost of money. I urge the Minister for the Interior, who is at the table, to direct the attention of the Treasurer to these vital matters and to assure him of the support which the honourable member for Dawson has enunciated for the proposition before us - that the Government honour its contractual obligations to an industry which has contributed so much to national development and fiscal stability. As regards the criticism that nothing constructive has been done in the way of forward planning I would stress the need for a clear and definite national agricultural policy. There is a need to recognise that the basic decisions relating to wheat are, have always been and will be in the future, government decisions. 
The problems referred to by the honourable member for Dawson are problems of national planning. They are not really the preserve of the growers, and they cannot be. The growers do not make these basic decisions. They do not set in motion the procedures for the treaties which form the basis of our export sales. They do not set the terms of export credit. They do not enter into international agreements which are the basis for so much of our activity in this industry. Only the Government can decide the needs of the home market. Only the Government can decide how much wheat should be held in strategic storage at home, if we have it. Only the Government can decide how much wheat is needed as a weapon of stability in South East Asia. These are surely matters for government decision. Such decisions cannot be delegated to somebody else because only the Government has the resources and the responsibility to make these decisions. The Government has the basic responsibility for setting clear national guidelines for primary producers. The present and future problems of the countryside are related to what has so far been the abdication of leadership and responsibility in this sphere of national planning for agriculture. These were the matters raised by the honourable member for Dawson. These are matters which must surely be of concern to all of us. If the Government abdicates leadership and responsibility then the problems of not only the wheat industry but the entire agricultural sector will be multiplied. I urge the Government to honour to a greater extent the spirit and the letter of its contractual obligations. 
I am very pleased at the support that has been given to the suggestion I made during the second reading debate that this part of the Bill should be re-examined. Clause 4 (2.) clearly states: 
Moneys borrowed under this Act may be made available, on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines . . . 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is not here to answer our questions. 1 welcome the assurance that someone will come in and will deal with this matter specifically. As the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  said, we are taking money from a fund which, incidentally, was created from the profits of the Commonwealth Bank. Taxpayers' money is not involved in the fund at this stage, the fund was established from profits. We are taking money from that fund and we will engage in a book entry exercise that has not been explained to the Parliament. Quite frankly I believe that this is a most important part of the measure and should be studied in detail and in depth by the Committee. 
I pointed out earlier that a sum of $25m is involved for 1968-69 alone, lt was said by the previous Minister that this could well be used as a tax on a struggling industry. I think the term was well chosen and we should give serious attention to this aspect. If the explanation is not satisfactory we may have to amend clause 4. It is as simple as that. It is not satisfactory to bring in a Bill dealing with $300m of loan funds and not to have clearly spelled out exactly where the money is going, the source from which additional funds will be drawn and the terms and conditions that will apply to the loan. This is a most serious matter and I am very pleased that all the honourable members who have spoken so far in Committee are unanimous in seeking details so that we can determine our attitude to this clause. 

 - Mr Chairman, 1 think the importance of the statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has been completely overlooked. As a matter of fact the statement came as something of a bombshell. Let us be quite clear about this. The Minister said that the present rate of interest is 5%. He would make no prediction as to what it should be in the future. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr 
Giles) said that this situation is quite satisfactory and that it covers what we are discussing today. It is not satisfactory. I refer the Committee to the second reading speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in which he stated, very definitely:  lt is intended that the rate of interest on the loan by the Commonwealth will be the same as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. 
This means that it could be changed at any time. Of course it can be changed. 
It is subject to Loan Council approval, as the honourable member for Moore properly points out. This is a most serious matter because there is no guarantee now that the 5% rate in fact wiM be applied. I raised this matter,  Mr Chairman,  during the second reading debate, in relation to having a look at reduction of the rate of interest because it was costing the industry, and the growers, $25m. I do not think that this is a small matter as has been suggested; I think that $25m is a tremendous amount of money to an industry which is depressed at this moment. If there is to be a variation in the terms then it is going to be an increasingly serious matter. It could well be that what we are seeing now is the Treasurer imposing a new tax. 
The importance of this mutter goes beyond this particular piece of legislation. Let us be quite clear about that point. The reference made by the Minister assisting the Treasurer was a reference to the guaranteed loans of the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia, so it goes beyond this legislation; in fact it goes to the far wider sphere of the operations of the fund which was set up, after all, to utilise the profits of the Commonwealth Bank for the purposes of rural development. That is why the fund was set up. That was the decision of this Parliament and I hope it was unanimous at the time. 
Now we come to a situation where, for Government purposes, the Government is saying that it may charge somebody an additional amount of interest on Government money to be used for Government purposes, for Government trading and in the interests of the national income. That is the whole crux of this question. The demand at this stage by the majority of the members of the Committee who have spoken is for the Minister assisting the Treasurer to clear up this question because it is a matter of importance going beyond this loan - it is a matter that touches on the whole ramifications of the rural credits development fund operations. We should know now whether the rate of interest for this loan is to be 5%. Is consideration now being given not to a decrease in the interest rate such as I pleaded for, because of the depressed state of the industry, but in fact an increase? This has to be known. Surely to goodness the Government should bring a measure into the national Parliament and say: 'We have not made up our minds as to the terms and conditions'. That is what the Government is saying. That is neither good housekeeping nor common sense. 
I suggest that the Minister assisting the Treasurer apply himself to the query that has been raised both as to the specific point and the general ground. If he does not clear this up now it will cause grave concern to a whole range of industries at a time when they are already in trouble. The bombshell - and that is what the Minister has brought forward - should now be contained. I hope the Minister will take the fuse out of it and say that instead of considering an increase the Government will go back to the precedent created by a Prime Minister of bygone years,  Mr Chifley,  and say that in relation to this matter at this time it will consider a reduction, because after all the money that is being made available is for Government purposes, for Government trading, and for the interest and income of the nation as a whole.  Mr Chairman,  this is an important question and I think the Minister should reply clearly and definitely without equivocation to the question posed to him and to the Committee this afternoon. 
During the second reading stage of this Bill important matters were raised. These matters were also dealt with during the Committee stage. They remain unresolved and the questions that were put by a majority of the speakers during the Committee stage have not yet been answered. I suggest at this third reading stage that with the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  present he should take the opportunity to do as he should have done during the debate on the second reading and clear up a matter of great importance in relation to interest rates and the financing of primary industries. I suggest that this is as good a time as any to do it. This does not in fact, under the Standing Orders, encompass any of the ground that has been covered before because the questions have been clearly put and remain unanswered in relation to interest rates. The opportunity is here now for the Treasurer to deal with what is an important matter relative to this measure now brought to the third reading stage. 
Tonight I desire to raise a matter which is both urgent and important to the wool industry. It concerns about 50 rams which seem to be in limbo at present. I refer, of course, to the lifting of the embargo on merino rams. At present rams that were sold to foreign buyers are in some sort of limbo. The Government is meanwhile allowing matters to drift and the increasing requests by wool growers for the matter to be referred to them by referendum have continued to be ignored. Following the lifting of the embargo, about 50 rams - there is some dispute as to whether the number is 48 err 53  -  were sold to overseas countries. Ten were bought by Communist China and others were destined for various countries, including South Africa, Argentina, Italy and Romania. The ban was lifted in defiance of the Australian Senate; it was lifted in defiance of the expressed opinions of Victoria and Western Australia; it was lifted in defiance of the Graziers Association of New South Wales, the Victorian Farmers Union and the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales. 
Honourable members might well ask who was in favour of the lifting of the ban. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has been under the strongest private pressure from sectional interests to whom he and the Government have surrendered on this issue. Publicly he has said he was acting on the advice of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. This body should be recognised for what it is - a clumsy amalgam of interests sponsored by the Commonwealth Government and which is simply not representative of the wool growers of the country. The two New South Wales farmer and grazier organisations and the Victorian Farmers Union can claim to represent 56.6 % of the industry, and they are against lifting the ban. But of course, they are a minority in this clumsy and unrepresentative conference. If there is any lingering doubt about this being so I would remind honourable members that the Conference voted 36 to 17 for a particular kind of reserve price scheme. This was put to a referendum and defeated by the growers. So it can be seen that the Conference - which at most could be used as a sounding board - cannot and should not be cited as an authoritative voice of wool growers on matters such as this. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has gone on record as saying that the protests against the lifting of the ban were simply stimulated by the Australian Labor Party. The ban was, he reminded everyone, a Labor Party decision. So the Minister claims in an extraordinary fashion - and I do not real'ly think he believes what he said - that all the farmer bodies in the two States of Victoria and New South Wales are simply acting on this matter as agents for the ALP. This is absurd rubbish and he knows it very well. It is true, and let me place it on record, that  Mr Parker  Maloney, Minister for Markets in the Scullin Government, brought in the original proclamation banning the export of stud sheep at the instance of the Labor Government away back in 1929. But it was supported at that time by all political' parties and most of the grower organisations. Incidentally, it has been pointed out by the Minister that the last consignment before the ban was 5,000 merino sheep destined for Russia. I think it is interesting for the House to know that from only 363,000 sheep in 1923 Russia has boosted sheep numbers to 90 million sheep today and most of them have been bred from Australian stock. 
The wool growers against the lifting of the embargo feel that the Australian producer, already struggling with sharply rising costs, would have difficulty, if the ban were lifted, in securing top quality rams at reasonable prices. They foresee - this is their thought - that 15% of the top rams could leave the country when they are most needed to maintain and improve the quality of Australian flocks. A member of the Committee for the Retention of the Embargo on the Export of Merino Rams,  Mr P.  G. Medway of Gunning, states that the southern American nations have the land, the experienced Australian station managers and in many cases their own laboratories, and they are ready, willing and geared to expand with the help of Australian merino rams. 
So it can be seen from what I have said that there is widespread opposition by the industry itself and even by the man in the street. A poll was taken at the Sydney show and 95% of the people polled said that they were against the lifting of the embargo. 
That is a very interesting comment because at the present time that Association is described by the Minister for Primary Industry as really an agent of the Australian Labor Party. I knew that honourable members would be surprised. Against this background the Opposition's plea for a referendum of growers is surely sound, proper and reasonable. Tonight I reiterate the plea that has been made and the appeal that has been made for it to be accepted by the Government. 
There is an urgency about this situation which I want to mention. The 50 rams that were bought by overseas interests are still here due to the fact that the trade unions concerned will not handle them. This follows a request by the graziers and wool growers who are in opposition to the export of merino rams. The Minister for Primary Industry has sought to mislead the nation on this point. He says that the unions acted at the instance of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The Minister knows, as we all do, that the growers and the unions combined on this occasion.  His  attempt to give the leadership of all primary producer organisations concerned with this matter to the Leader of the Opposition is perhaps an unconscious recognition of the fact that the Minister has abdicated leadership. lt is now feared by the growers - this is a point I want to stress in my submission to the House tonight - that the Government intends to try to circumvent the black ban by facilitating the export of semen. There has been an embargo on the export of semen since 1950. There is the further difficulty that the present know-how just does not permit semen to be carried at all effectively. 
The Seamens Union is standing firm. But science is making dramatic advances these days. What is impossible today is possible tomorrow. So the growers have the worry that this relaxation could be undertaken now and could lead to possibilities of the effective export of semen in the future. But to lift the ban for any group of foreign buyers in any case would contradict the recent request by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which the Government adopted, to ban fertilised ova leaving the country. The Minister said in a recent statement that anyway all these bans imposed by the Government in support of the original decision have not been very effective. If he is planning in the interim, as is feared by many of the growers, to lift the ban on semen and the ban on fertilised ova - the utilisation of fertilised ova is technically possible and feasible - this wit] mean the beginning of the dismantling of the whole structure which the industry has been concerned to see maintained for at least 2 generations. 
Semen from the 50 rams now bought by. overseas interests could produce 150,000 lambs. Again I stress that we have not the know-how to bring the two necessary ingredients together. But, as I have said, this problem could easily be overcome with the present rate of scientific advances. After all, 50 million sheep are bred each year by means of artificial insemination in Russia and a great deal of research is under way. To end the confusion and the fears held at this time, surely the Government should do the right and proper thing, and consult the growers by referendum. 
If it is willing to allow growers a referendum on other matters which perhaps do not seem so important to it or do npt seem to affect the Government's position in any particular way, surely it is right and proper to concede a referendum on this matter. If the Government does not do so, one must assume that the growers will be granted a referendum only when it does not matter or when the Government feels that the growers will do exactly as it wants them. to do. Unless this thought is to gain credence and acceptance in the countryside, on this matter surely - above all other matters - there should be a decision for a referendum to end the fears, confusion and the doubts which exist at the present time. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister and Acting Treasurer. Did he receive reports from the Minister for Defence before he left us and the Minister for the Interior following their promise to 10,000 farmers, who marched in Melbourne to protest against the continuing crisis in the countryside, that they would convey to the Prime Minister without delay the farmers' protest and their request for action? If the Prime Minister has received the reports and noted the further march by 3,000 protesting farmers in Perth, will he tell the House what specific action he intends to take to end the economic deep freeze in the countryside contrasting with the Treasurer's overheating? If the Prime Minister has not received the reports from his representatives, will he call for them urgently and be warned that, unlike Wat Tyler, the leaders of the farmers on this occasion will not lose their heads for sweet words but will demand effective action? 
I rise to support the amendment, which is a most important one. It brings into sharp focus all of the things that we are, or should be, concerned about in the chamber today. We have not heard anything of clarity or of substance at all. We have reached the stage in Committee whereby we are moving to get some valid information, because in this Bill we have not had properly validated information at all. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who was the former Minister for National Development, gave a clear indication in relation to this clause. We are demanding the proper information. He indicated that the Bill, which provides for the Dartmouth dam, in effect provides for Dartmouth or nothing. That was the clear indication. We have tried to present a very simple message tonight, that is, that we should have a proper evaluation of the next urgently required storage on the Murray River. The technical reports which have been referred to by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  are not valid reports for this debate because the inputs of those reports do not add equal value. It is impossible for any members of this Parliament  at  the present time to sit down and make a valid comparison because the data has not been made available to us. This is a disgraceful situation. 
I hope that the honourable member who said that says it again, because the Minister told him at the second reading stage that detailed economic studies of the benefits from this storage have not been processed. The honourable member should have called for facts in the Party room. I do not know why he is coming in at the Committee stage and telling me that he wants facts. He should have told his Minister. The Government comes in here with a measure - I might say, backed up with inadequate and confusing data - against a background of complete confusion amongst members of the Government. They have been speaking with two voices on this. 
The other point that  1  wish to draw attention to in relation to this proposal is that the Minister for National Development made a misleading statement when he said that the Menindee Lakes storage would only temporarily be in hock to South Australia as a result of the Bill that we have before us tonight. When we look at it in detail we find that the report of the River Murray Commission says that the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement should be extended in perpetuity. The Minister said twice in his second reading speech that in fact it is to be only a temporary thing. It was going to be indefinite, certainly, but it was temporary. This was the indication. When we come to have a look at this matter we find that the series of storages amount in fact to I million acre feet. The only reason why there is not 2 million acre feet in them, as the honourable member for Darling will know, is that the New South Wales Government did not do the right thing and has not restored them in the right and proper way. In fact, the storage is half of what it could well be. So we are talking about 2 million acre feet. What are they saying? They say that a storage with a potential of 2 million acre feet has to be thrown into this Agreement. To make up for what? 
We have been told that Dartmouth has a greater and better yield than Chowilla. I am not debating it, but I point out that if this is so, why do we need a storage in perpetuity with a capacity of 2 million acre feet in addition to Dartmouth? Why do we need it? 
I could tell the honourable member on behalf of New South Wales that behind a smokescreen of words - a deliberate smokescreen - which the Minister for National Development started to lay down in his second reading speech, the Government in effect is going to take the only major storage in the Darling basin in New South Wales and South Australia in perpetuity. Yet, honourable members come here and tell us that they are going to build a better dam with a better yield and there is no need to worry about Chowilla at all because Dartmouth will perform much better. These facts do not add up and this is the reason for the amendment. 
Yes, I should think so. If I speak with some heat  1  am justified in doing so. I represent communities which are on the brink of disaster because of the greatest mess in water conservation in the nation's history. Yet I have been gagged at this hour of the night in order to satisfy some whim or other of the Government. I think that is a disgrace to the nation. It is a disgrace to the national Government in this consideration of vital projects. 
Unlike some honourable members opposite I see no cause for amusement in this. We are talking of something that was done in a wrong way and which could cost S6m - wasted money. We could be up for another $7m - wasted money - because of the inability of the Government to make up its mind. So there is no reason for smiling; there is no room for levity in this. We should be ashamed of the fact that we members of this national Parliament have inadequate data for the debate and an inadequate presentation of the case from all sides of the House. This does us little credit. I say with great seriousness that the livelihood and very existence of people are at stake. Some cognisance should be taken of that. This is not just a political matter; this is a matter of national development for many years ahead. 
My assessment is that if our amendment is not carried and the Bill is passed despite all of our efforts, this will spell possibly the construction of the last major storage on the Murray in this generation. This is if the Government lasts, because this is clearly the intention of the Bill. My South Australian colleagues do not say: 'Oh, we should not have Dartmouth'. All they are concerned with on behalf of their State is to see that Chowilla is not dumped forever. There is nothing wrong with that as an attitude and for one I stand with them on it. Those members have been most reasonable. They have told me that they have no intention of delaying in any way another urgently required storage on the Murray. They have nothing against Dartmouth. What they say is: *If there is to be Dartmouth and nothing else, it is not adequate'. I say that it is not. It will not satisfy South Australia's ' requirements; it will not take Menindee out of hock; and it will not take the straightjacket off the Murray districts. 
Honourable members should not forget that there are 2,000 farmers and 20,000 people who are now depending on allocations of water which assume that Chowilla dam has been completed now. That is a disgrace to the Parliament. If the weather changes and the season changes they will face disaster. These are serious matters. A whole complex of people and industries is involved. The Minister for National Development has a responsibility at this stage to rise in his place - and I challenge him to do it - and explain how he can reconcile what he said in his second reading speech with what in fact we are now asked to vote on because they do not add up. The need for a proper assessment of water conservation projects was never greater. The only thing that has been said on this side of the chamber tonight is that there should be proper economic, proper agronomic and proper engineering assessments. This is ali that has been said. They have not said anything else. This, I might say, was described by a supporter of the Government as sentimental slop. What stage of debate have we reached when a man rises on this side and pleads for a proper appreciation of a project which will cost - what? Who knows? - $S0m at least and in the long run $100m if the two storages are built and a plea- 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question now be put. 
I rise to support the action taken by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for a very simple reason, that is, that on a matter which affects the lives and future of many thousands of people in the Riverina itself at the relevant stage of consideration the matters which I wanted to bring forward were not permitted to be heard by the House. It seems to me this is the crux of the third reading objections today because after all when a member is elected to represent an electorate which will be the subject of legislation and is then prevented by a quite capricious action of the Government from making his contribution and making a submission on 2 matters- 
The honourable member for Sydney is so right. Perhaps his helpful interjection is not so far off the mark. Perhaps this is a matter of words. The Minister used the word 'indefinitely' on two occasions when apparently he meant 'perpetuity'. One of the meanings of 'indefinitely' is that the matters are indistinct and blurred. Surely that is the way they have been in this debate. I do not know whether the Minister was under some sort of pressure, but the dictionary also says that 'indefinitely' can mean indistinct and blurred especially in sensuous impressions. Perhaps the overheating which took place was due to the Minister's preference for that particular word. 
There is no doubt at all that what he told us and what is in the Agreement and in the Bill before the House are 2 entirely different things. 'Perpetuity' and 'indefinitely' do not mean the same. What is proposed is to take the only major storage in the Darling basin and throw it in with the Dartmouth dam so that the allocations to South Australia can be adequate. This is an extraordinary position. The House has heard a statement that Dartmouth has been preferred because it is a better yielder of water, particularly to South Australia. If it is a better yielder of water to South Australia, I cannot for the life of me see why it is necessary to take the only major storage in the Darling basin and give it in perpetuity to South Australia. This is incredible. It just does not add up. As the honourable member for Dawson so cogently said, the facts are not before us to enable us to make a proper decision not only on Dartmouth but also - I say right now that this is a matter of urgency - in relation to the River Murray. 
lt ill behoves a member of the Government to interject at this stage after a spectacle of dictatorship the like of which I have never beheld in another chamber in which we both served. He should be ashamed of himself. 
I accept your guidance,  Mr Speaker.  I was under some provocation, of course. The crux of our stand on the third reading is that the information before us on which we are asked to make a decision relates not just to one dam. I want to make this quite clear, because I am dedicated to the building of Dartmouth as a matter of urgency but not to the closing of all doors on all other dams, storages and improvements. The impression conveyed to this House has been that those doors will be closed. This is not good enough. 
Even at this very late stage I appeal to the Minister for National Development to try to clarify for us the various matters and queries that have been raised. After all, what are we called upon to do? We are not called upon at this stage to vote just on Dartmouth; we are called upon to vote on Dartmouth and nothing. The Government has denied that this is the intention of the Bill but when I address myself to this venerable dictionary - a 1936 edition and therefore slightly outdated - 1 find that 2 meanings of perpetuity are 'inalienable' and forever'. Surely this is the crux of the matter that is before us. My South Australian colleagues have been very consistent in their attitude. They have supported me. They have supported the people in the Murray Valley who are concerned to see that Dartmouth goes ahead. They have said: 'Please go ahead with Dartmouth. By all means build it as a matter of urgency/ Thousands of people are calling for the building of Dartmouth. They want to see it built. My colleagues in this place have said these things and I pay a tribute to them for their statesmanlike acceptance of the fact that something more than the Chowilla project should be proceeded with, but what they have objected to on behalf of their constituents is that the Government's proposal will close the door on anything for South Australia. The door will be closed absolutely and South Australia will be told: You have had it'. 
Turning to the situation in New South Wales, people in the district which 1 represent in the southern Riverina will be on the brink of disaster if additional storages are not built. They will be in a straitjacket forever, accepting the dictionary meaning of perpetuity, if Dartmouth is all they are to get, because their allocation is completely inadequate even with Dartmouth. This is the point 1 make, if I may, on behalf of the people of New South Wales, particularly those in the Riverina. These people are on the brink of disaster because not enough water will be available when the season changes. They will be in a straitjacket forever, if Dartmouth is the only storage to be built on the nation's greatest waterway. This is the crux of the matter. There is no intention of delaying the project, about which, looked at as a single project, there can be no real argument. But if we look at it as the only project serious questions must arise. 
Our attitude towards the third reading of the Bill is the right and proper attitude having regard to our feelings in the matter.  I  appeal to the Minister even at this late stage to tell us the Government's precise intentions, because so far he has not done so. lt is this failure on the part of the Government which has led to the action which the Opposition has taken. The Minister has used terms that are diametrically opposed. He has referred to technical reports which are not valid comparisons because the input data was not of the same value. How can we as a national Parliament of responsible people be asked to make a decision on this kind of confused information? I do not want to go all over the ground that has been covered on this matter because it would be improper to do so, but I stress that the Opposition does not object to any intention to proceed with Dartmouth. Our objections in the early hours of this morning and now are based on the fact that this measure does not provide solely for the construction of Dartmouth, lt closes the door on any other construction. When the Minister for National Development was asked to confirm or deny this, he remained completely and absolutely silent. This is a terrible situation. Here we have a Minister who brings in a measure which is seriously and responsibly questioned. There was some heat, of course, in the debate, but most of the points have been made from a technical point of view, and most of the questioning has been from a technical point of view. Yet the Minister, who has the whole of the resources of his Department at his disposal, sits in eloquent silence. Silence then must mean acquiesence in this instance with our point of view. 
Let me reiterate that our point of view is that there is a need to go ahead with Dartmouth as a matter of urgency. We want the dam to be built. But why clutter this up with proposed legislation that slaps the South Australian people in the face, leaves them with nothing and shuts the door on their future? The legislation also says to the rest of the Murray district: The position is a little easier, it gives you a little more security but you may remain in your straitjacket - if we take it literally - forever. The is just not good enough. This is the reason why at the third reading stage we are making this appeal, first to the Minister for National Development and secondly to the responsible members on the Government side who must be concerned at the turn of events. 
I am very sorry about that but if the honourable member is not impressed with the arguments on behalf of South Australia, if he is not impressed with the arguments on behalf of the people of the Southern Riverina, if he is not impressed with the arguments on behalf of the people of the Darling Basin in New South Wales, I do not know what will impress him. What can we give him? lt has been said, of course, that there is more support for us on the Government benches than has been forthcoming in speeches in this debate. I am delighted to think that the Australian Country Party Federal Council, supported the- 
Thank you  Mr Speaker.  In summation of the points I wish to make, I want to appeal to the Minister for National Development in the first instance to deal with the serious doubts and questions that have been raised at this third reading stage. He at least has to address himself to the dictionary to do so. If he does he will see the inconsistencies with the present position - the inconsistencies of what we are asked to do. Also, on the Government side there are men who I know must be deeply concerned about the points that have been made. I do not accept the validity of the interjection by the honourable member who said that he was not impressed with the matters put before us. I know politically this might be all right but I am sure that speaking from the point of view of the greatest good to the countryside, he would review that statement quietly and say: 'Of course- 
I am just concluding. 1 do not want any misunderstanding about what 1 have been saying. 
I know how difficult it has been in the last few hours to get an understanding about anything. I view of the intrusion of sensuous impressions - according to the dictionary - I do not want anyone to be overheated on this matter. I ask the Minister for National Development to consider in a serious and responsible way the points that I have made on behalf of the people concerned. I also ask the Minister to be clear and definite in relation to the important matters that are before us and not to betray the best interests of South Australia, the Riverina and the nation at this time. 

 Mr GILES (Angas) [11.201-1 will not keep the House very many minutes. So that the House will be clear about my references, I will be referring principally to clause 24 of the Dartmouth Agreement, which was touched on in the debate yesterday. Last night, during this debate the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  made the point quite clearly - and I trust that he will agree with this - that the farming community in the irrigation areas in his electorate were at present limited, figuratively, by the assumption, as he put it, that Chowilla Dam had been built. He felt that the water for his farmers was limited by this fact. 
I will not go over the debate of last night. But it is quite apparent that if he is right he is referring to the current yield figures of the River Murray system. A new assessment of the circumstances or, if I might put it another way, the Dartmouth configurations, show that if Dartmouth is built the yield of the Murray system, as the honourable member knows, will be be improved to a very great extent indeed. According to this improved set of figures all States will get an increased quantity of water. Therefore I would say that the honourable member's complaint that his settlers on the River Murray will be in trouble in future is wrong. If Dartmouth is voted for at this point of time the position of his growers on the River Murray, and to a greater extent my growers on the River Murray, will be improved very considerably indeed. He would know his own figures. I will repeat mine. Prior to the 1967 drought South Australia received an average of 337,000 acre feet of usable water a year. During the drought, because of heat factors, we received 500,000 acre feet. The diversion of usable water to South Australia, when this agreement is ratified will be 900,000 acre feet. That is the picture in my State. We will receive nearly twice as much water as we drew during the drought year and nearly 3 times as much as we commonly used in a normal year. 
The position in the honourable member's State will be very little different. He should know his figures although he has not cited them to the House. But the water supply to his area, particularly for irrigation will be improved if his area draws directly from the Murray system. I imagine that those on behalf of whom he is complaining are affected by the Murray system, because I know that a lot of his electorate is not concerned in this way. So far he is not talking in the interests of those of his settlers who depend to one degree or another on water from the Murray system. It is quite plain as far as I can see. 
He also said that South Australia had been slapped in the face and had no future. Precisely the opposite was said by honourable members on this side of the House all night last night. Any competent authority who sat as an adjudicator on the debate last night would have taken the side of those people who understood what they were talking about. It is quite simple. There is no doubt about it. If any competent authority had adjudicated on the debate last night, the decision would have been in favour of the logical approach of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  I hand it to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I thought he made quite a good job of a very difficult situation. He is a trained man and realises that he was talking illogically. He probed as best he could wherever he could find a weakness, and I give him credit for it. I thought it was a very good effort, but let us not run away from the fact that the Dartmouth Dam will give a vastly increased yield of water and all 3 States will benefit. 
If this Bill does not go through, in my State - I cannot talk for the other States - there could easily be restrictions on water to industry, to householders and to irrigation areas and we will not be able to build up any further acreage of plantings. This is the clear situation. I hope, indeed, that the honourable member for Riverina is acting in the interests of the growers to whom he referred because, as far as I can follow his form of logic, he does not appear to be doing so. 
Typical of the loose criticisms to which the Government leaves itself open is that irrigation water has made dairying a heavily subsidised industry, profitable along the Murray, but a heavier output to be sold in present export markets merely drags down the overall return to other dairymen including those struggling in marginal regions. The incredible thing about this is- 
What authority did the writer have? 
The writer in this instance was  Mr Tom  Connors who was writing in the 'Australian Financial Review'. I think  Mr Connors  was merely saying what many other people, particularly Professor Campbell,  Dr Davidson  and other critics of irrigation have said. He has merely followed all the efforts that have been made to limit national development. 
The honourable member for Mallee should know me better than to suggest that I have supported the critics of irrigation. I would expect to have the honourable member's support on these matters because it is only by way of efforts like this to question a situation, when there have been shadows, doubts, secrecy and inadequacies, that we can get something better. 
Let me make this position quite clear. I think that the honourable member for Mallee should stand in his place and say: I support the sound development of this nation. 1 call for all the reports and studies that need to be seen if we are to make proper determinations'. I do not want to proceed in secrecy. The honourable member should be saying this with me. If he does not, I am surprised and ashamed of him. Last night when we called for a cool, calm and proper economic analysis of the projects our appeal was categorised by Government supporters as sentimental slop. What stage have we reached when members of the national Parliament, in response to a call for proper examinations of data, describe it as sentimental slop? Surely to goodness they need to review their own position. By not proceeding in a sound way to a consideration of matters such as this, honourable members opposite are lending support to the critics of non-development; they are lending support to the people whom I would describe as little Australians because they are not interested in the wider development of the nation. They are quite content to concentrate themselves in suburbs and be bounded by the lamp post at the end of the street. 
I point out that we are engaged in this debate because there was an unwholly mess made by the honourable member's administration. He is contradicted by members of his own party on this matter. I hope he faces up to them because they are wrong and he is right or vice versa. If he wishes to debate that matter, with your indulgence  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we will be delighted to oblige him. 
The honourable member is meeting me here now. He can follow me in the debate. I invite him to do so. I invite him also to say whether he is dedicated to a particular policy of inadequate analysis to which the Minister for National Development confessed in relation to the matters before us. He said that the matters had not been determined. He said he and his associates had not even made up their minds whether they could make use of the resources of the Murray for a further power station. He said that they had not made up their minds whether to spend $7m on Lake Victoria. He said they had not made up their minds whether they would proceed with anything further. They had not told us of course the real reasons why we spent $6m in umpteen years, left people suspended and then came along to 4 Governments and said: 'Look, we all make mistakes. It is all very sad, but forgive us. We will start again.' The Government is starting again. This is no way to run a country and it is no way to run a project, and to try to cover up the situation at the present time is just not good enough. It has to be brought out into the open. 
These critics of irrigation are simply trying to limit what we feel should be the balanced development of the nation. They are not dedicated to this at all. They have talked themselves into believing that the whole of our nation in the future should be a suburban collection. Strength will be given to that belief if we do not do the one sensible thing and ensure that every project that is brought to the national Parliament is properly evaluated, publicly discussed and publicly probed, and then we have all the data, including the inputs, before us. 
I do not know whether honourable members are aware that there is no magic in a cost benefit analysis. All that happens is that a whole series of arbitrary inputs are fed in and an answer is obtained. Let us be quite clear. There is no holy writ running through this. There is no reason at all why we should not as a nation and as a Parliament have all the relevant data, study it carefully, calmly and objectively, and say we believe this is valid or this is invalid according to the information we are able to get ourselves or according to our own knowledge. I am saying that the need for increased irrigation in this nation is linked with its ultimate destiny and development. If it is limited we will become a limited nation. But for a project to proceed properly and for it to be accepted by the great bulk of our people, who live in the cities and for whom we have a responsibility, we have to show that everything that has been planned and done is properly based. I make a plea that it be done in that way in the future and that what has happened on this occasion will never happen again. 
In speaking to this Bill, which after all is concerned with the actual finance for Dartmouth Dam, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Bill comes before the House at a time when interests which are not sympathetic to the development of the nation, particularly the rural sector, are gaining a great deal of support. It has been claimed in many places that the outlay of public funds on water conservation and irrigation is not warranted at this stage in the nation's development. People who should know better have said that the most sensible thing for Australia to do at this stage would be to withdraw to the suburbs and not proceed with the development projects which are so necessary if this continent is to be occupied effectively. This is a policy of retreat to urban areas - to the suburbs - rather than a policy of pioneering what is still largely an empty and undeveloped continent. 
Only the other day in support of the view that nothing further should be done in national development except on the rim of the saucer an academic made the point that the record of State and Commonwealth irresponsibility in outlaying public funds for uneconomic irrigation ventures is a long and sorry one. This is simply an echo of many similar statements. It is not true, of course, that this nation has spent very largely on irrigation development. It is not true that this nation, by comparison with other nations in arid zones, has done very much of an impressive nature to exploit the natural water resources of the inland which must be exploited if we are to progress. An unchallenged statement such as the one to which I have referred can do untold harm to future development. One paragraph of the statement attacking irrigation reads: 
But few of the projects to come may be more wasteful than the Dartmouth reservoir designed to augment the supply of water to the Murray River. 
According to this critic and many like him, irrigation water is wasteful. According to him, all of the communities that have been built up by irrigation have been built up in an unnecessary way because it is claimed that there is some sort of inbuilt subsidy in constructing a dam which, of course, in the normal course of events, is a multi-purpose dam. The crux of our concern about this Bill is that it is not backed by adequate technical data that the House can examine. There is no reason in the world to accept the criticism of irrigation development in Australia in the past and in the main because the value of the schemes speaks for them. In fact, one-quarter of all the agricultural output of the nation originates in irrigation. One-half of the food that is taken in by the city members who are present here today originates in irrigation. Yet the vital role of irrigation development in feeding this nation has not been fully recognised. 
It is important in the interests of national development, in the interests of proper listing of priorities, that all the projects which are carried out are properly evaluated. In the last 24 hours we have had evidence of an extraordinary lack of appreciation of the factors that must be taken into account when we are planning irrigation development. One honourable member on the Government side said that the only matter that should be taken into account when an irrigation structure is being planned is the engineering aspects - the engineering considerations. This is absurd. In fact, in applying ourselves to the planning of a major conservation work, it is necessary to take into account not only the engineering facets but also the agronomic, the economic, the geographic and the social aspects. In other words, there has to be an assessment made by integrated disciplines. 
The voice of the Government on this occasion submitted that there were only 2 avenues of approach to the planning of conservation work. One was political and the other was engineering. This submission is completely false. This is one of the concerns that my South Australian colleagues have expressed. Some of the objections they have had to the abandonment of Chowilla were based not on engineering but on agronomic conditions. So it is important that everyone here realises that there is an urgent need for every project before the national Parliament to be properly researched and properly evaluated. All the reports should be made public and debated publicly. 
There is no need for the Government's reticence to make all information available. 1 submit that there is no need for the practice which has grown up of calling for a technical report, having a look at it and then saying: 'Oh, goodness gracious, we cannot have that report; it does not really agree with what we have already decided', and then sending it back, having it amended, having a new set of input data, having a look at the result and saying: This might suit our purposes a little better'. This means in effect that a conclusion is reached and a decision is made to proceed with a project, and then someone has to go out and seek evidence in support of the proposal. This is not a proper way to proceed. This is not a proper use of the nations money, yet this is what this Bill is involved in. It is not a proper way to plan the future expansion of the rural sector and the countryside generally. What should happen is that a project should be the subject of studies the results of which should be made freely and generally available. The studies should also be the subject of public debate even before the Government brings the associated legislation into this Chamber. There should be no secrecy about a proper economic evaluation of national projects. 
There is no need for the Government or any future government to proceed in secrecy unless it is doing things about which it is not convinced or is doing things for political  reasons,  unless it is concerned about the cost value of votes. My appreciation of the situation is that the cost benefit analyses that have very often been used to support legislation have been related not to benefits to the nation but to political advantage. This is no way to deal with our future. 
1 entered this debate to say one or two things about the background of the deep and abiding respect that I have for the institution of Parliament, and 1 say that very sincerely. Every honourable member who comes to this chamber makes a considerable effort to get here. He has to command a great deal of respect and confidence from a lot of people ever to reach this Parliament. Last October I was one of 26 new members on this side of the House who came into the Federal Parliament for the first time. We came to apply ourselves to the problems of the people that we represent, to their present conditions and to the future of the nation. Some of us had served in other Parliaments. I had the privilege of serving in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales, which is the mother parliament of the nation. 
We came here to Canberra to find that our opportunities In the service of the House and the people were limited by a combination of empty ritual and lazily accepted procedures. The 26 new members on this side of the House took their desire to serve their country and their constituents to the fullest extent in a more intensive way. They took that desire to their parliamentary party. The fact was readily recognised that the procedures of the House, even at the best of times, have in many instances, outlived their usefulness. They belong to an era of perhaps 2 generations ago. 
As far as new members of this House are concerned the past 5 months have shown that we have extremely limited opportunities to make contributions in this national Parliament. Until we met last Tuesday we had had only 10 sitting days in 5 months. The first session of the new Parliament following the general election lasted for only 1 day, which was dominated by ceremonial. The first day of the current session - many months after the first - also was dominated by ceremonial. In the remaining 8 days before Easter opportunities to speak were strictly limited by the use of the gag. More speeches by new honourable members on this side were delivered to the bathroom mirror while shaving than in the Parliament because the opportunity to deliver them here just did not arise. 
Question time is a key time in the Parliament, but we find that it lasts for only 43 minutes each day. This is not long enough to provide opportunities for all the new and younger members who are fired with the enthusiasm that comes from a first time of service. At the beginning of each day we engage in the magnificent exercise of jumping up and down trying very hard to get the call so that we may ask a question. I cast no reflection on ' the Chair in what I say, but how could the situation be otherwise with only 45 minutes each day for 125 members to ask questions? What of the adjournment debate? In the New South Wales Parliament I always regarded the adjournment debate as the one safety valve available to an honourable member to ventilate something of pressing moment - something terribly important to his constituency or to the nation. We have an adjournment debate here, but lo and behold, we who are supposedly fresh and enthusiastic are told that we cannot speak on the adjournment on Tuesday nights because everybody is far too tired from having travelled to Canberra that day. We are told that we may speak on the adjournment on Wednesday night but not for very long on Thursday night because everybody is tired from his week's labours and those who are not tired soon would be tired if we spoke. 
In the adjournment debate on the Thursday night on which we rose for the Easter recess there were 2 speakers and then the gag was applied. It was applied during the course of a debate on the problems of rural industry. In a Press statement since that time the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said that the rural situation is horrible. That is the word used by the head of the Government and leader of this nation. But when we wanted to probe these issues in this Parliament we were told that only a couple of speakers would be allowed and that would be it. I had the privilege of speaking for 10 minutes. This is the limit imposed by the Standing Orders. Most of my colleagues who sit behind me and who co-operated to allow me to speak on that occasion had no opportunity at all to speak. They went home and into the Easter recess having said nothing. When we got back to our constituents and were asked how was the Federal Parliament - that greatest forum in the nation, that powerful institution - and what had we done about this, that and the other thing, what answer could we give? All we could say was that we had enjoyed the openings of the Parliament - both of them. We enjoyed listening; we enjoyed the ceremonial. We told them that the Government was very concerned lest we get too tired on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
Against this background a great deal of frustration has arisen on this side of the House. It stems from a desire to serve better or as well as we can. Let me come to the events of last evening. The important matter before the chamber was the River Murray Waters Bill, which vitally affected honourable members on all sides of the Parliament. Some honourable members on the Government side and some on the Opposition side made their contributions in the debate. Some referred to the desirability of constructing various storages and some referred to the technical reports that they had read. A list of speakers to take part in the debate had been drawn up and accepted by those concerned. Mine was the last name on the list. That may be appropriate; I accept the situation, but at least I was there. I waited patiently. I prepared my notes. I spent several hours listening to the debate and assessing the points made because the people in my electorate who sent me to this place are deeply involved and very concerned with the issues that were before the Parliament. Those constituents would have deemed it an act of betrayal if I had not spoken out in a serious and reasoned way. 
I waited for a long time, because the debate lasted for some considerable time. I was patiently awaiting my turn to speak when I was informed that the plans had been changed, the debate would be gagged and I would not be able to speak. I said to the honourable member from the Government side who conveyed this information to me: 'I do not care what you think you will do but I have a responsibility to the people who sent me here and I will speak in one way or another. I will speak in Committee; I will speak on the third reading; I will speak on the motion for the adjournment if necessary, but I will make my speech.' Incidentally, that is why I was sent here by my constituents. This is the reason for my election to this place. Perhaps I would have spoken for 20 minutes - not more. Surely that would have been little enough in a debate that lasted several hours and dealt with a matter of economic life and death to many families in my area. When I was told that I could not speak I expressed my deep resentment against the decision. To give him his due, the honourable member who conveyed the news of the proposed gag to me said: 'If you take that course of action that is your privilege and your right' I said 'good', and warned the honourable member that I thought proceedings would take far longer to conclude because of this capricious use of the gag than if the Government had been prepared to let us make our speeches as we felt it should have done. The honourable member shook his head and said: 'That may well be.' Thus ended the first chapter - the gagging of the second reading. 
In the second chapter we came to the Committee stage. A great deal has been made of the fact that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  did not know what was happening; that he was not sure what was to occur.  His deputy  knew very well what was to happen. I am sure that the Leader's messenger told him: 'The honourable member for Riverina is very annoyed. I think he will try to make a speech some time somewhere somehow but I dare say we can manage him all right.' It was not a case of managing one honourable member; it was a matter of managing all honourable members who wanted to make a contribution to the debate. So in the Committee stage I approached one of the Clerks, after conferring with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  and said: 'We will have to have an additional amendment in the Committee stage because the Minister for National Development seems to be confused about his English dictionary meanings. He is not clear what he wants to do about the disposition of the Menindee Lakes so we must take some action in the matter'. The  Clerk  said: 'The hour is late and this is difficult.' But with good spirit he said: 'We will prepare the amendment.' It was done with all good dispatch. He did it precisely and well and eventually a copy was delivered to me. After all, I am not really very close to the table. I am up here. So there were copies floating around; and I have the copy of the amendment that T was going to propose in Committee. It has nothing to do with the general principles of the political situation in this part of the world or in South Australia but is a technical matter about which I was very concerned and about which other honourable member, I am sure, on all sides of the chamber were very concerned. All right, we wanted to present a number of amendments. I had the responsibility- 
1 rise on a matter which affects the environment of life in one of the oldest settled parts of our nation. The unfortunate trend in Australia is for settlement to become more and more concentrated in south eastern Australia. Sydney and Melbourne are spilling all over the countryside. In the process they are submerging many of the essential green belt areas in a positive avalanche of concrete. In other instances they are tearing the heart out of key park areas in the interest of temporary profits for industrial complexes. In some cases these areas are a vital heritage for our children, many of whom will, on present trends, face a series of giant metropolitan complexes in which a tree will be a curiosity. 
I want to refer specifically tonight to the Kanangra-Boyd National Park. Nearly all of us are aware of the incredible decision of the New South Wales Government to grant a special lease for the mining of limestone at Mount Armour in the Colong Caves Reserve. This unique set of caves, with its colony of rare wallabies, located in the beautiful Kowmung River valley, may be destroyed at any time because of a mining lease granted over public park lands by the self proclaimed champions of conservation at present in the New South Wales Govern ment. This shocking decision has been and is being contested by the Colong Committee, which now represents 90 community bodies with members drawn from all political parties. This battle against the despoliation of the Colong Caves continues. 
Meanwhile, what has been described as the rape of a new reserve is being carried out. 1 want to direct the attention of the House to this development and appeal for action tonight. A firm called Timber Industries Ltd, of Oberon, is carrying out savage logging operations on the Boyd tableland. Some of the areas involved are part of a reserve for the preservation of native fauna and flora. The Boyd Plateau is an uplifted granite dome, 50 squares miles in area, with an average altitude of about 4,000 feet, it includes the highest top of the historic Blue Mountains with the finest collection of waterfalls in Australia. It was in the last century that the great scenic potential of the Boyd Plateau was first recognised. Now, 80 years later, we are engaged in the despoliation of a beautiful, unique and historic area. The Boyd Plateau has been strongly recommended as a park by the National Parks Association. It is the only 4,000 feet granite plateau which can be reserved between Kosciusko and New England. 
In a world-wide awakening to the need to conserve unique, rare and beautiful areas, the majority of Australians sleep on oblivious of ugly acts of rape in various parts of our country in the interests of stripping natural resources, often by foreign firms for transitory profit gains. The Boyd Plateau is disappearing today. It is one of the few areas still abounding in wild life near Sydney. Today, yesterday and for some months, bulldozers of Timber Industries Ltd have been operating on the Boyd Plateau.  Sir Edmund  Hillary watched them and was understandably angry. Yet the Ministers of the New South Wales Government avert their eyes from the scene and take no action. 
Tonight my appeal is directed to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  I ask him to take an appeal to the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator R.  C. Cotton. Timber Industries Ltd is 43% owned by the Cotton family.  Senator Cotton  is a director and his brother,  Mr M.  C. Cotton, is the Managing Director. The other major share holding is that of the North and South 
Broken Hill companies. So at least we have a situation different from the foreign cement company which is despoiling Colong. We have an Australian company with a distinguished legislator and his family as a major force in it. It is evident that the New South Wales Ministers concerned will not move on this matter. Tonight I ask the Minister for National Development to make an appeal to his colleague in another place to investigate the damage being caused by his firm, with a view to suspending operations which will lead to the destruction of the proud peak of the Boyd. Let it remain as a symbol of our determination to preserve unique aspects of our rapidly disappearing heritage. 
Perhaps in this case the private citizen, the private company, will put the New South Wales Government to shame and take the first step. I hope  Senator Cotton  will help. Even those who support his firm's operations, such as the Sydney branch of the Institute of Foresters of Australia, agree that there is a need for an independent examination of such operations. The branch  Chairman, Mr G.  S. Lugton, has supported the concept of an independent land use authority in these matters. With time running out on this matter, I renew my appeal to  Senator Cotton,  through his representative in this chamber, to intervene on the side of posterity. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has a committee to research the benefits of decentralisation been established by a decision of the Premiers Conference. 
If so, who are the members of this committee. 
When did it hold its first meeting, and how many times has it mct. 
Have any reports been completed. 
If not, when can completed reports be expected. 
Will they be tabled in the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Australian Dairy Produce Board, with the active support of the Government, use $550,000 of dairy farmers' money to build a reconstituted sweetened condensed milk plant in the Cambodian capital? Was the Government of Prince Norodom Sihanouk a partner in this venture? What is the present position of this investment? Will the original agreement be honoured by the present Government of Cambodia and will the Minister ensure that dairy farmers do not lose from following the Government's advice in relation to projects such as this? 
I would like to direct the attention of the House, particularly the Government, to a problem which is being raised at every opportunity by telephone, by letter and by every other means. I refer to the guidance which is urgently desired by wheatgrowers in relation to what the Government expects them to do in the 1970-71 season. Men and machinery have been standing by to put in the 1970-71 crop. Good rains have fallen, particularly in the Riverina. I quote the Riverina as an example of the position across the nation. The growers have wanted to take advantage of this particularly fortuituous rain, but even at this late stage there is still no guidance forthcoming. The growers have not been told what they are expected to plant. 
I sincerely hope not. I want to deal with the situation of the growers who have delivered their quotas for the 1969-70 season. In some cases they have delivered a little extra following the State shortfall, but among them are growers who are still holding thousands of bushels of wheat. Just recently some growers in one district of the Riverina told me that individually they had 6,000 bushels of wheat still to deliver. They wanted to know whether, if they delivered the wheat, they would ever be paid and, if so, when. They wanted to know whether, if they did deliver the wheat and were paid a return, it would affect what they would be permitted to deliver in 1970-71, and what they would be paid at that particular time. The tragedy is that still no answers have been received to those questions. Someone might say: This is an extraordinary situation where a member of the Federal Parliament, a member of the national forum, has asked a whole series of leading questions about what growers should do at this particular time when there have been rains'. The growers ask: 'What should we do?' The growers do not speak about what they would like to do; they ask what the Government would like them to do. They are asking for guidance. Do honourable members know what answer is given by every Federal member in every rural electorate? It is this: 'We cannot say*. The reason is that the Government has not made up its mind. There are no decisions as yet. 
Who said that? In our country at this particular time there is only one government. In every State of the Commonwealth and in the Commonwealth sphere the same people are in power. There is the same Liberal-Country Party coalition administration. That is a fine triumph. It is a tremendous thing. It is the greatest achievement that we have seen in our generation. The governments in all the States and in the Commonwealth sphere are of the same political persuasion. There is no room for division. There is no room for argument. There is one government in our nation. It is true that there could be 1 or 2 little differences, but surely to goodness with a united coalition, with a monolithic government and unanimous decisions, one could assume that there would be no argument in the States or in the Commonwealth sphere as to who does what. The decision would be the same. 
In the absence of firm commitments many farmers will seek to sell what they have. At the present time there are many growers in the countryside who have delivered the quota of wheat that has been given to them. Many farmers have been given a little extra as a result of the shortfall. Many growers still have thousands of bushels. Let us take some of the people whom I represent. They have 6,000 bushels. Do honourable members know what they do? They write to me and say: 'If I deliver the 6,000 bushels will I be paid for it? What will I receive? Will it be deducted from this season's quota?' I hope that some honourable member can answer me, because I have not got the answers. I hope that if anybody has the answers he will tell me now, because the Government has not given the answers yet. What is the position? The farmer says: 'I am in a situation in which I have to meet my hire purchase commitments, my land tax, my rates and the capital repayments to the banks'. Does the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  argue with me? 
Are you saying that this is not the position? Are you saying that there is not a heavy burden on the people? Are you saying that there is not a heavy burden on wheat growers? Well, I hope you are not. You should stand with me now, because the farmers are in desperate need of collateral. 
I rise to support strongly the contention that the relief provided by this measure is not adequate. That is the contention submitted to the House by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who led for the Opposition in this debate. This Estate Duty Assessment Bill has as its major feature an increase in the level of exemption from $20,000 to $24,000 and some provision for time to pay. Of course we must welcome any small recognition by the Government of the current crisis in the countryside. It is for this reason that we would not oppose this measure, but at the same time we feel that it is our duty to point out very strongly that it certainly does not go far enough to meet the present situation or to do the one thing that needs to be done in relation to estate duty at this time, and that is the restructuring of the entire impost. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has traversed the detail of the situation, and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has pointed out the importance of land values in relation to this impost and said that perhaps this is the key to many of the current distortions in the countryside in relation to costs, taxes and estate duty. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  summed up the position very well. He said that it is all1 very well as an instalment. We accept it as such, but surely to goodness we should recognise on both sides of the House that what is needed is a complete restructuring of the estate duty impost not only in recognition of the present situation but in recognition of the situation that we will face in the future. 
I was interested to hear a member of the Government describe the duty as cruel and wicked. He recalled that it was introduced in 1914. He condemned it without any qualification whatsoever. I invite him to tend his support to the amendment which has been moved very precisely and definitely by the Opposition which says that we welcome this as a temporary measure; but surely to goodness this does not finish it. Something further should be done fairly urgently because of the situation we find ourselves in at the present time. The Government has been in office for 20 years, and if the duty is cruel and wicked now it must have been cruel and wicked 20 years ago. Without any recrimination at all, surely to goodness we can now come together with a firm conviction and a united determination that the whole of this impost should be reviewed and restructured. 
Indeed. Some members of the Government have defended the legislation. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has described our reasonable approach as superficial. I gather that in saying this he regards the Bill as quite adequate. I am surprised and also disappointed that he is leaving the chamber at this time. All the ramifications of the problem are related to farm size. It has been suggested that the bigger the farm the better and more efficient it is. I was delighted to hear a member of the Government say that his own investigations had led him to the United Kingdom and to a discussion with authorities there, who had pointed out to him that the top 10% to 20% of their efficient operators on the land were in fact owner-operators. This is totally in line with the experience and the data that is available in relation to Australia. 
Of course, if we want to apply ourselves to exercises in farm size, it would not be a bad exercise to study what has happened in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which began with the idea that the biggest farm was the best. That was their guiding principle for a very long time. But today, talking technically and not politically with agriculturalists from that country I am sure they would admit that this is just not true and that the economies of scale fall away to zero and then reverse once the optimum size is exceeded. That can vary, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out so clearly in his speech this afternoon. 
The hardship confronting primary producers at the present time, particularly the family enterprise, in relation to this duty, land tax. rates and the whole range of taxes, stems very definitely from the influx of hot money into the countryside. It was pointed out by the honourable member for Dawson that wheat farms changed hands on average only once every 52 years. But the incredible situation is that if some overseas concern or if some corporation from home or abroad with some speculative money moves into an area and makes a purchase at a quite fictitious and outrageous price the whole cost structure of that district is affected by it. The honourable member for Banks, who has great experience in taxation matters, described this as an 'alleged' value. He was being polite. I think it is a purely speculative value. It is certainly not a value that should be applied for purposes such as this. Nevertheless this is the pattern. It is often asked in the cities how it could be possible, with all the difficulties we have talked about in the countryside, that the price of land has not tumbled. It has not tumbled for 2 reasons: Firstly, I am very pleased to say, most of the farm operators and farming families are standing fast. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I was saying to the House just prior to the suspension of the sitting that most of the primary producers in the State of New South Wales, and in other States for that matter, are standing firm in the face of rising costs and in the face of the crisis in the countryside at the present time. They are standing firm against the temptation to put their properties on the market and against the temptation, perhaps to accept prices below what they would have been offered some time ago. It has been suggested, of course, that land values have already been affected. I would like to refer the House to the rise in land values, which is the key to the present problems in relation to estate duty. Honourable members might remember that the honourable member for Dawson particularly pinpointed this aspect of the legislation that we are dealing with. 
The Rural Crisis Manifesto was produced by the Edenhope Agricultural Bureau. As a result of a fine piece of organisation, 10,000 farmers marched in Melbourne. It was a demonstration of solidarity of belief in their future and in their cause and the development of the countryside. The Rural Crisis Manifesto said this: 
Rarely do land values decline. Yet there are numerous instances of sales at least 20% below the value of 2 years ago, and most potential sellers cannot find buyers. This state of affairs indicates the quite serious lack of confidence of both farmers and investors in the future of agriculture. 
That was a comment made by the men of the Edenhope Agricultural Bureau. Just the other day the financial editor of a national journal, dealing with land values, said: 
Rates are set at six-year intervals and since the boom days of the mid-1960s land values have declined by about 20 to 25 per cent ... a major capital erosion on any terms. 
Even more recently it has been suggested in another national journal that as a direct result of the introduction of wheat quotas - this was a reference to Victoria - land values had dropped in many areas from S90 to $60 in 20 months. In New South Wales some authority in a financial journal said that the 
New South Wales Government's purchase of property had been made at S39 instead of the previously prevailing value of $60. 
These are isolated instances at the present time. 1 do not feel at the moment there has been any tendency to tumble land prices generally, but the problem remains that at this time we have artificial values brought about by the infusion into the countryside of hot money, whether from our own capital cities or from overseas. Then we have a situation of crisis in which the same hot money is standing by to buy up properties of family enterprises which, as has been conceded by honourable members on both sides of the House today, have the record of being the most effective and efficient in absolute terms. 
Let us have a look at what is happening in my electorate. In one part there are growers and landholders with properties the average value of which at the present time would be $100,000. That seems a lot of money. When a farmer goes into a city and says: 'Look, I have assets worth $100,000', the reaction is: 'My great goodness, what a wealthy man you must be.' In fact, it is mostly fiction. What does that value comprise? It comprises land at an artificially inflated value, and the reasons for this have been accepted on both sides of the House. It comprises plant and equipment. But if the man were put out of business tomorrow morning, these would be put on the market and there would be no buyer. 
As a matter of fact, at the present time - I think most honourable members who have any knowledge of the countryside would agree with this - there is pressure on the farmer to take over various items of equipment on hire purchase. Naturally the setup with the hire purchase agencies is that they have an agreement, which they implement. Let us suppose the purchaser says: 'Look, I simply cannot meet this.' In the normal course of events what then happens? The piece of equipment is taken over. It is put up for auction and disposed of as quickly and as effectively as possible. Whatever money is received for it is offset against the hire purchase debt, and if it is not enough then the man is charged with the balance anyway. So what does the farmer have? He has assets that are unreal in fact. I was once warned as a younger man against the tyranny of possessions. At the present time in the countryside the tyranny of possessions is very real because, although a person might have the assets on paper, he does not have the substance or the income, in fact. This is the problem that we face at the present time. 
MrGRASSBY- Perhaps I should be grateful to the honourable member for Evans for that interjection, because it seems to me that the entitre crisis in the countryside is either being deliberately misunderstood by some city interests or perhaps is misunderstood because of ignorance of the significance of the crisis. There is in fact in this country at the moment a growth of what I might describe as an economic apartheid. What has been done is to lock two parts of the nation into separate entities and say that one part is a matter for one group of people and the other part is a matter for another group of people. There are not 2 Australias, to my knowledge; there is one. The interdependence of them needs to be demonstrated more clearly here, the greatest of our national forums, because at the present time there is obviously a lack of understanding of what is happening to the greater part of the continent. Perhaps the honourable member means that it does not really matter very much what happens in the rural sphere at the present time, because there are always corporations at home and abroad that will come in and say: 'Look, you are in trouble. We will buy you up.' 
I think the honourable member for Evans would know that in the City of Sydney at the present time, following an idea conceived in the cities of Zurich and Geneva - both cities were involved - people are standing by with very large sums of money and they are ready to say to any farmer who is in trouble: 'My dear fellow, we will take over the farm for you and you may work for us. We would not dream of dispossessing you. You may remain there as our vassal, and when you get old we will give you a pension, and when you die we will bless you.' If the farmers want to surrender, of course, that is fine. But I would venture to say that most of the people who inhabit the frontiers of our still undeveloped and still unoccupied continent wish to remain. The figure that I quoted earlier was not my own figure but was the figure presented to us by the honourable member for Dawson. lie said that the average turnover of farms in the wheat industry is once every 52 years. So the people have no great desire to flee from the frontier. They desire to remain, to battle, to reproduce and to see their progeny remain and push out a little bit further. There is no desire to retreat to the suburbs. But the measure we have before us, like many others, is contributing to the difficulties of survival at the present time. 
I draw the attention of the House to an instance which perhaps illustrates the dilemma many people face. It concerns a family which has been farming in Australia for 5 generations. They bought a new property in 1935, subdivided it 5 years later and became quite settled. The property they have today they developed intensively by a tremendous amount of personal effort and by the use of the latest techniques that were available. To use an old phrase, they made the desert bloom in al! its reality. They have made a tremendous contribution not only to the economic life of the nation but also to its sociological progress. Obviously I cannot specify the people concerned but I hope that the House will accept that they would be among our most outstanding occupants of the frontiers of development. But what is their position now. Because of a sudden death in the family they face, after 5 generations, extinction. Just the other day the widow said: 'My husband gave a great deal of thought in his will to the survival of the property as a viable proposition. He felt that the future of the property depended upon its not being further subdivided: so he made all possible arrangements in his will.' But, to come back to the point on which I have been trying to focus attention, the greatest proportion of the estimated value of the estate is the value of the land which we have already established, I would hope on both sides of the House, is completely artificial. 
It is often said that this sort of contingency that arises from time to time in time in respect of estate duties and associated matters can be covered by insurance. Let us see what this outstanding citizen, this outstanding primary producer, did in relation to insurance. He was insured on a basis that he calculated would be sufficient to cover the estimated death duties on the estate.  His  last policy was taken out before the drought - before the current crisis. He was then already . in his middle 50s. It seemed that he had covered himself, his family and their future adequately; but what has happened? With revaluations we now find that his insurance is totally inadequate. Whether or not he tried to adjust his insurance policies, the fact remains that he could not do so because the financial position of his family was such that he could not afford the higher premiums that would have been applicable to his age. This can be duplicated and multiplied across the nation. So the widow, in a plea related to these new valuations, said: This now places an intolerable burden on the property and every member of the family.' 
This family has displayed what has happened following the drought. Has it been forgotten that this drought was the worst for 100 years? Has it been forgotten that it has imposed intolerable strains on individuals and whole communities? If the black death had returned to the urban areas of the nation and had decimated them would it have been forgotten so quickly? It seems to me that, in considering such measures as this, we have forgotten that the drought faced producers with the worst crisis for 100 years. When the honourable member for Evans says: 'Is not this something that happens to all of us?' the answer is no. I am afraid that I would be out of order in this debate in answering him fully but I hope that before the week is out there will be an opportunity to deal with this matter. 
I want to go on record in this debate as saying that if the Government is going to wipe out the whole of the family enterprises in the countryside of Australia and to replace them with overseas corporations that will strive to follow the pattern, which has been established elsewhere, of controlling the whole of the food industries of the nation from the paddock right through to the housewife, then the honourable member will1 find in his electorate of Evans that he will have no recourse to this Parliament. He will have to go to boards in New York, London or Hong Kong and say: 'My goodness, food prices are not good enough; food quality has degenerated and the quantity is inadequate1, because the policy governing the feeding of the cities - this is where interdependence comes in - will depend not on us but on the people to whom we have abdicated our responsibilities. When I rise in this chamber to discuss the affairs of the countryside I am not talking from the standpoint of economic apartheid. I do not want to do anything that would be injurious to the body politic as a whole. I am asking, in fact, for a balanced approach so that the advancement of the nation shall continue. 
This is the summation of what I have said tonight: That the family enterprise has been demonstrated to be both efficient and effective and is the backbone of the rural development of the nation; that the current crisis is a product of policies or the absence of policies; that imposts, such as estate duty, must be totally reconstructed; that this small measure should be only a prelude to this being done as a matter of urgency; and that the vote on the amendment that has been put forward should be a vote of conscience. If we believe that the Bill is inadequate - I have heard nothing tonight, except from the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  to the effect that it is not inadequate - then we should all join with the distinguished honourable member for Melbourne Ports who made a submission that was both reasonable and restrained. We accept the amendment; we welcome it. The proposed legislation is not enough. So please let us in this House of Representatives say so. 
-I seek some clarification from the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  who is the Minister assisting the Treasurer. The Minister indicated that the various matters that were raised during the debate would be covered in detail by correspondence to the honourable members who raised them. During the second reading debate I raised one matter on which I seek clarification because I have already raised it in correspondence directly with the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  I referred to a specific case. If it means that under this legislation a family, after 5 generations on the land, will survive that is fine; but if not, the legislation falls to the ground. Will the Minister give a specific undertaking that this case will be reviewed in accordance with his statement during the second reading debate? 
During the debate on the adjournment of the House this evening the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  quite surprisingly, and I thought disappointingly, devoted most of the time available to him to an attack on the honourable member for Murrumbidgee in the New South Wales Parliament, who he said is a terrible man. Then he went on to deal with the honourable member for the Riverina in this Parliament, he said is even worse. The interesting point is that he charged me with stirring up the countryside and with being dramatic about the problems of the countryside. I plead guilty to both charges. I do so in very good company because it was my privilege to march with about 10,000 people who were just as upset as I was. I hope to march with many more people and 1 hope they will be equally stirred up and equally as dramatic. 
What was the next charge made by the honourable member for Gwydir? He said that I had criticised the present quota scheme, that I had described it as operating against the best interests of the farmers and of the community as a whole. Again I want to plead guilty to the charge. I think the scheme is iniquitous, ill-conceived and hasty and is operating against the best interests of all concerned. Of course, if the honourable member wishes to defend the quota system he may do so. In his local newspaper, the 'Northern Daily Leader', published in his own area, we read: 'Bigger wheat quotas by dishonesty'. This is a quote from  Mr L.  M. Ridd, a grower member of the Grain Elevators Board and someone who is well known to the honourable member for Gwydir. He said that wheat growers who were the most dishonest received the biggest quotas in the State. He also said that there had been 6,000 appeals against them and that there were many anomalies. 
The honourable member for Gwydir defended this scheme this afternoon and criticised me for opposing it, as he said, dramatically. I do oppose it dramatically, with some drama and heat on some occasions. I make no apology for that. In a newspaper from the south west, 'The Riverina Daily News', we read on the front page the heading: 'Going, going, gone. Victims of the quotas.' I will read only the first paragraph: 
Three Weethalle families- 
It is not a big community but I have the honour to represent it -  yesterday put all their possessions up for sale by public auction and prepared to move to other parts of the State. 
The families . . . said yesterday they had been forced to leave the Weethalle district and their  share farming  interests because they could not afford to live on the wheat quotas as set by the Federal Government. 
The argument as to who is responsible for the introduction of wheat rationing in the middle of the season should be dealt with now. The decision was made here in Canberra. It was forced on the States. In the debates in the New South Wales Parliament that 1 took part in it was made quite clear to every member both in Government and Opposition that the Commonwealth waved the big stick. The Commonwealth had the decision to make. The Commonwealth made the decision and said: 'You will do this'. The implementation in detail was left to the colleagues of members of this Government who are in government in the States. Let us be quite clear that the decision began here. It was conceived here and was implemented from here. 
The honourable member went on to talk about the Wren wheat. I am delighted to think that he inquired about Wren. 1 do not know why he inquired about it particularly and not about the majority of other varieties which are not recommended. For his information I must tell him that some of the Wren crops were not much good because of rust, and others attracted a premium. 
Under the authority of the Wheat Board. After all, let us not forget that low protein wheat under the authority of the Board, as you would know- 
The Minister for Primary Industry, by interjection, indicated that no Wren growers had received a premium. If he is interested, I should be glad to see him in my office after the debate. I might say, in relation to the Moree meeting, that I was invited to Moree, in the electorate of the honourable member for Gwydir by farmer representatives and by the Chamber of Commerce. I was invited there by responsible people in his own electorate who were most concerned and upset at the whole situation there. I was told in Moree on the public platform and by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce there that business in that town was down by 40%. The honourable member for Gwydir says that this is not a matter to get dramatic about; that this is not a matter to go from one end of the countryside to the other to preach about. I hope that he earns bis money while he is here. He very nearly was not here. The honourable member also raised the matter of sales outside the Austraiian Wheat Board. It has been predicted that the sales outside the Wheat Board this year will be greater than those inside the Board's system. 

 Mr Cope - I take a point of order. Two Ministers who are not sitting in their seats are continually interjecting. That is quite out of order. 
I want to say quite bluntly that I was delighted with the last interjection by the Minister for Primary Industry who said 'What rot* to my comments about black market wheat sales. The Minister is saying for the very first time in this chamber that he has some interest in the quantities of wheat that are being sold outside the Board. This is the first time that we have heard from him on this subject. I am delighted that he has come into the chamber at this time of the night -at 11.55 p.m. - to tell us this. Still, it is never too late to make amends. I hope that he will come into the Chamber tomorrow- 
Again I accept the interjection by the Minister for Primary Industry, but I challenge him to come into the House tomorrow and to give us a comprehensive statement on wheat, including details of receivals and the extent of trading outside the Board. I should like him to give that information to us precisely and definitely so that we will know exactly what the position it. I challenge him to do it. If he comes in here tomorrow and does that I shall be the first to rise in my place and say: 'Thank you, this was a very fine effort - late, but welcome.' To make this statement is his duty and responsibility, but he has not faced up to it. There has been a whole range of price quotations for wheat. 
I have mentioned in this place the range and possible extent of trading outside the Board. 1 have mentioned figures compiled from various sources. 1 and the whole countryside will be quite happy to be corrected on this matter. There is only 1 other thing that the Minister shoul'd make quite clear, that is, that when he set in train the whole of this quota system he accepted that there would be great trading outside the Board. The Minister did accept that this would be the situation and he knows it. Let him get up and defend his action and let us have a precise statement on exactly what has happened. I think he owes that to the Parliament and to the people. In the State sphere the honourable member who in the State House was the honourable member for Upper Hunter will remember the debates clearly. Unlike the honourable member for Gwydir, I went to Moree in response to an invitation to discharge my responsibility by stating our policy clearly and definitely. I then returned to the House, took part in the debate, and was privileged to oppose the legislation on 13 consecutive occasions. 
It has been suggested that we have never said in this place what our various policies are or spelt them out. 1 remind honourable members that Government supporters gagged the debate on the matter of primary industry which had been raised as a matter of public importance on the first occasion that I spoke. On that occasion I was allowed to speak for 10 minutes only. No-one was permitted to speak after that because the gag was applied. That was in the days when the gag ruled supreme; it was before Government supporters recognised the error of their ways. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they get away from this business of trying to cover up massive mistakes. They should stand up and apologise to the whole countryside because by their deeds we shall know them. What is happening at present is a tragedy. It is based on policies which were hasty, ill-conceived and even badly implemented. 
Earlier in the adjournment debate the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  raised the subject of the problems confronting wheat growers, so I hurried into the chamber lest there was a need to support him in some action on behalf of wheat growers and the solution of their problems but, sad to relate, all that I heard was that if there is anything wrong at the present time in the countryside and with the wheat industry and the wheat growers, then the people responsible are the wheat growers. Apparently from what he said this evening, they thought of rationing, they conceived the quotas, they knew all about it, so if they are in trouble it is their own fault. 
The honourable member for Wimmera tonight earned himself a distinction because in this continuing debate - I almost said in Wheaton Place - this is the only time, at any rate in the debates in which I have taken part, that 1 have not heard him add a new adjective to qualify the term 'the honourable member for Riverina'. I have heard some very picturesque adjectives, new appellations and new epithets, but I am very disappointed, because some of them are becoming a bit repetitive. I thought I would do a little service tonight before I got onto the problems of wheat growers. 1 want to lel honourable members opposite know that I have discovered a new dictionary in the chamber, so if they are going to become abusive regularly at midnight 1 suggest they spend a little time with it. lt is located behind me. If they are going to be abusive at least let them be picturesque. lt has been suggested that the Commonwealth Government is pure and undenied in respect of the administration of matters concerning the countryside. I recall that not to grant citizenship to Communists or to of New South Wales the State Minister for Agriculture made a statement in relation to the first of the 2 measures designed to alter the structure of the wheat stabilisation scheme. He said that the announcement as to what was to happen, particularly to the home price of wheat, was made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in this Parliament after he had broken off negotiations with the industry and without any consultation with the States at all. I had conversations with the New South Wales Minister because we were concerned, and he was concerned, with the situation. He publicly opposed the announcement and publicly condemned it. He said that it would lead to increases in the prices of a whole range of commodities in the cities. Of course, this is exactly what happened. He made it quite clear that it was futile to accept the opposition which I led in the Legislative Assembly of New 
South Wales because be said: 'If we agree with what the Opposition says and if we accept your line and say that we will have no part of what the Commonwealth has proposed the Commonwealth will wield the big stick. It would be prepared to break stabilisation and ruin the whole of the wheat industry and its structure to get its own way'. That is what he said and if honourable members opposite want to examine his speech I refer them to the records and annals of the mother Parliament of this nation. 
If we consider the suggestion that the wheat grower is at fault and that it has nothing to do with the fiscal dictatorship of the Commonwealth which brought this situation into being, let us look at what happened. The Minister for Primary Industry said that everybody was aware of what was going to be done. We had the situation where growers were informed of their quotas as they were getting their machinery ready to harvest. But the Minister says that they all knew their quotas. If we consider that point, it might be argued that the growers should not have planted any crops at all or that they should have cut their crops according to the quotas which had not been mentioned and which they had not received. This presupposes that they have a magnificent form of foresight, highly developed. But let us be blunt about this. What actually happened was that not only did the growers not know precisely what was intended but the banking system did not know because in many instances bank managers and bank agencies, both public and private, made advances to growers to plant the crops which they actually put in. Many of them were told subsequently that they would be able to deliver only half of their crops and be paid for half of them, but they had made these plantings in conjunction with their banks. So much for the argument of Government members who are defending the Government so sturdily tonight and who have suggested that the wheat growers are hopeless in their ability to plan. The growers did not know the situation nor did the banking institutions of the nation, because every bank was represented in the loans which were made in the wheat areas. The suggestion that everything was known and everyone was aware of the situation fails to the ground. 
Tonight there was a reference to the black market. I was delighted today when the Minister for Primary Industry rose in his place and said: This business of 50 million bushels on the black market is rubbish. It could not be any more than 28 million bushels.' The Minister then went on to confess that he did not know the actual position on the black market because he did not have the precise figures, but he said that he thought that that would be the position. He was then asked whether he knew how much wheat was being held on farms. He said that he did not know but he would certainly try and find out for the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who had asked the leading question on this subject. In fact, we do not know the actual position, nor does the Minister. Estimates have been given. These estimates have ranged, as I have said publicly on many occasions, between 20 million bushels and 50 million bushels. As I have said tonight, we have not been given the precise figures. The Minister does not know the precise figures. Let us be blunt about it and accept the fact that the Government has lost control of the wheat industry to such an extent that it will never know the actual 1969-70 harvest. 
I have said again and again that the estimates which have been made by people involved in the wheat industry of wheat sold on the black market range from between 20 million bushels and 50 million bushels. The Minister for Primary Industry said today that it would not be more than 28 million bushels, but he has confessed that he just does not know the actual position. However, he is going to make an effort to find out. I wish him good luck. But let us be quite blunt about it and accept the fact that because the Government has in fact lost control of the industry it is unlikely ever to find out the precise figures. This was the whole purport of the questioning which I initiated outside the Parliament and which has been carried forward here. 
In view of the overall short fall in the harvest the sensible thing would have been to take in all of the 1969-70 crop and pay the $1.10 a bushel first advance. If this had been done it would have wiped out the black marketing and lt would have given some collateral and security to the country side. In fact, this can still be done. I notice that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is in the House at the moment. Last year when it appeared that the harvest across the nation would be bigger than it turned out to be I asked the Treasurer whether he would consider making more money available to take in the whole of the crop and pay the first advance of $1.10 a bushel. I pay a tribute to him because he wrote back - not very promptly but as expeditiously as he could, and I pay him a tribute for that - and said: 'We have done as much as we can'. 
Government members - Oh! 1 
I give credit where it is due. 1 will let honourable members have a copy of the Treasurer's letter if they are interested in it. I believe that they should act on it. The Treasurer said: 'I am not prepared to recommend that any more money should be made available, but I will certainly make available the full sum'. That is what the Treasurer said. I have the letter to prove it. But what is the present situation? Quotas of 308 million bushels are being applied across the nation. There is a considerable short fall in the harvest delivered to the Australian Wheat Board, which will probably mean there is a balance of $53m that the Treasurer has in his hip pocket that is earmarked for the wheat growers, although the Government's supporters are not asking him for it. The Treasurer must be very puzzled tonight as he sits there wondering why they are not seeking the money from him. After all, he said that it was available. The money is earmarked for this purpose and he has it in his hip pocket, but his colleagues are not asking him for it. 
I have given the facts of the situation. Unfortunately the facts hurt somewhat. When trouble arises and wells in the countryside the voices are not raised when they should be raised and when they are raised they are not strong or constant. I recommend that an examination be made not only of the dictionary but also of the circumstances which appertain at present so that we will be able to get what there is a great need for at the moment, which is some collateral and confidence in the countryside and less abuse. 
Motion (by  Mr Bury)  put: 
That the question be now  put. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many properties does the Commonwealth (a) own and (b) rent in each State. 
What are the total values of the properties owned in each Stale. 
I would like to bring the House back to the home front. The 105,000 wool growers still surviving in Australia have been a leaderless legion for a generation but they are now coming together in the face of a threat of extinction for many, and perhaps the majority. 1 want to tell the House tonight of the problem as it was presented to a gathering of more than 1,300 wool growers at Narrandera in the Riverina only a few days ago. I want the Parliament to know the urgency of the situation, which was stressed then and which I stress now on their behalf, -and to support the call that we should cease this wiping out of wool growers by the forces of economic exploitation. It was calculated that in the past 6 years about 15,000 of them have left the industry in all parts of Australia. The back ground to the Narrandera meeting was a call for a single marketing authority to administer the efficient marketing and distribution of the entire Australian wool clip. This proposal had been adopted almost unanimously by meetings and major bodies in the industry. In Moree in New South Wales 2,600 growers voted for it. They pledged their support on behalf of 7,000 wool growers in Queensland. 
Subsequently, on 14th April, the annual conference of the Graziers Council asked for the same thing. On 21st April the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers' Council supported the move. On the very next day, 22nd April, the Australian Wool Industry Conference, on which the Government places a considerable amount of emphasis, made the same request for a statutory authority to handle the Australian wool clip. So after 20 years there has been a unanimity that there should be a single marketing authority to market the clip. I wanted to tell the House the facts as they emerged at Narrandera in the Riverina. It was pointed out that in the past 6 years, as 1 have just mentioned, 15,000 wool growers have disappeared. There has been resistance to the idea of reform in the wool industry, even to adopting objective scientific testing which wool users want and which is used in any case for 35% of the clip after it is out of the growers' hands. 
Here we have an industry with a combined capital investment of $8,000m with a chronic crisis. Undoubtedly contributing to the crisis is the fact that the auction system, so long a sacred procedure for many, is the middle man's market and the grower and the user never meet.  Mr Bryce  Killen has pointed out that the prices of woollen garments across the counter have risen steadily over the years, that the prices from spinners to weavers have jumped up to 50% for some lines in the past 10 years, while prices to growers have dropped up to 50% in the same period. It was pointed out that the wool passes through at least 7 hands from the grower to the user. Today we find that the value of raw wool represents about 10% of the value of the finished garment. So we have a product in short supply, in strong demand, across the world. I thought that I should draw attention to that fact. The report of the New South Wales Labor Government's royal commission, headed by  Mr Justice  Cook, established that there was highly organised manipulation of the wool market in 1959. But not until now has there been a recognition of this. Since 1949 the Opposition has preached the policy of the statutory authority and statutory acquisition and appraisement. The year 1949 was a long time ago, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports will recall so vividly. 
I apologise to the right honourable member. Of vital importance is the attitude of the Government at this time of crisis. 1 want particularly to support the call by  Mr R.  Black, a member of the Australian Wool Industry Conference and senior Vice  President  of the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales, who made these points at the Narrandera meeting. He warned growers that once they agreed on a statutory authority to market the whole clip, it would be fatal to leave the implementation of the scheme to what he called the 'upper echelons'. He said that this was the worst thing that could be done. 
The big question posed was when and how the principle of a single statutory authority and orderly marketing was to be implemented by the Government. He wanted to know the extent of Government support. He asked whether the Government would market the clip and whether bridging finance would be available. This is where the major question lies because it is a matter of time. It is a race against time for many of the growers concerned. They want to know at what price the wool will be acquired by the statutory authority. They want to know whether there will be a reserve price based on the cost of production and what steps will be taken to end the present crisis. We have listened to the Government's voices on this question. I do not think I do the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  any real injustice when I say that all he has said is that when the wool industry comes up with united recommendations they will press the Government for their acceptance. 
The major voice of government, the Liberal Party, has not yet said anything definite. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said that the wool industry was in a horrible position but that, of course, the Government had not made any decisions on acquisition. He did not think that subsidies were a solution.  His  latest promise in answer to a question that I asked in the Parliament just recently was that the House would shortly hear a statement of Government policy and that the wool situation was high on the order of priority of the matters under consideration. So we have the Government speaking with 2 voices, but we have as yet no firm commitment on this question. Yet the situation is urgent; there is a crisis. It has been said that the Government might take 2 or 3 years to make a major decision on the wool industry. If it does we could lose another 10,000 wool growers. We of the Opposition are already committed to strong Government action in the industry and we believe that in the meantime there is no reason why strong Government action should not be taken to ensure the viability of an industry which is efficient in terms of its per man and per unit cost output. It contributes mightily to the export earnings of this nation. The point to which I draw attention particularly tonight is that the matter is urgent. The Narrandera meeting of 1,300 people voted for action at least by Budget time this year. 
I think the Parliament can take note of what was said by a spokesman at that meeting. He said: 
Pessimism in the countryside is the worst since depression days. 
He wanted action and so do I. I hope that this view will be shared on all sides of the Parliament and that there is not a postponement of decisions until the 10,000 wool growers have disappeared in the same way as their brothers went during the last decade. The matter is urgent and therefore I bring it forward in that spirit tonight in this debate. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is  be  able to say whether the Victorian Department of Agriculture operates a stallion licensing scheme based on examinations carried out by government officers. 
Is he also able to say whether the Nev South Wales Horse Breeding Act of 1940 required similar examinations and registration; if so, was this Act suspended in 194&gt;2 because of a war-lime shortage of veterinarians and has it never been re-introduced. 
Have differences of approach in animal health in this and other instances by various States led to confusion and anomalies. 
Will he in the interests of efficiency and efficacy initiate moves with the State Ministers concerned to bring about uniform animal health regulations for Australia. 
I rise to direct the attention of the Parliament to the problems of some of our people at home. Behind the facade of words that Australia is the envy of the world for its progress, its material advantages and its economic growth, we find that in the past 10 years we have lagged behind most advanced nations. Behind the words is the performance. The performance is that Australia has not in its economic growth matched the performance of countries such as Italy, Germany, Holland, Austria and even Ireland, or made itself much better at all. Complacency is one of the features of the last 2 decades of administration. Behind the words designed to keep young Australia from being restless about its future or questioning the present is a performance that for 10 years and more has been sluggish and inadequate in a young nation. Australia in the last decade in its economy must be likened to the arthritic who does not want to be found out so he wears a neon sign that says: '1 am fit. I am the greatest. But do not look too closely'. 
Typical of the way in which important segments of the community have been left to the winds of economic exploitation by disinterested Government, exposed to lack of guidelines and the absence of national planning, is the egg industry. The position facing the Australian poultry industry is that in 1965 the present Government brought to birth a fowl tax. I should say that the word is 'fowl' in case there are any worries about it. That means for every adult female bird over 6 months the owner pays $1 a year. Over the years while struggling to pay the levy thousands of small farmers have been driven out of the industry. Recently the Federal Council of the Poultry Farmers Association presented a stabilisation scheme to the Australian Agricultural Council but it was rejected. Now abandoned by the Government we find the march to monopoly control has been accelerated. A leading industry spokesman,  Mr S.  Sciberras, summed up the position very well on behalf of the industry and the producers when he said:  1 am convinced that without some equity in the industry my time us a farmer is limited. 1 am convinced that well over 80% of the producers in the Commonwealth by ballot would also express support for production control. 
The aim of the stabilisation scheme that has been rejected by the Government was to do 2 things: to prov.de stability for the family farmer and cheaper and better quality eggs for the Australian housewife. I raise the plight of this industry today but let us be quite clear that its problems are common to many rural industries at this time - industries based on independent settlement, industries efficient and effective but exposed because of Government policies to a vicious cost-price squeeze combined with a com plete abdication of responsibility to provide production guidelines. If the situation :s, as Government spokesmen claim, that there are no market outlets, that future prospects are grim, that Australia's troubles arc only part of the world's troubles, how can they explain that every time a family is banished from a particular plot of dirt because of the costprice squeeze there is always an overseas corporation waiting in line to take it up? 
The egg industry to which I direct attention was described by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  as one of Australia's important primary industries. He summed up the problems as increasing production and reliance on export markets. Australia's export egg surplus has increased from 20.2 million dozen to an estimated 38 million in the current season - an increase of 88%. The Minister said that the industry must relate its production objectives to the market prospects. Then, returning to his Pontius Pilate stance, he washed his hands of the problems and said, in effect: 'Get on with it.' But the Minister knows and the Government knows that it is not the industry which controls costs; it is not the industry which determines freights; and it is not the industry which sets the basis for negotiations with countries such as Japan and England to which we sell major quantities of eggs at this time. The first responsibility in this industry, as in other industries, must l e with the Government to determine firstly, whether it wants to have an Australian egg industry; and secondly, whether it wants to see Australian family units as the mainstay of the industry - whether this is Government policy; thirdly, whether it will provide the guidelines necessary for the production required at home and abroad. Once the Government does this exercise then it should of course provide and be prepared to provide the stable basis for the industry to go forward, or if the Government decides that the industry is expendable then it is honest and proper and right for the Government to say so and then take proper steps to phase it out and to reallocate the people and the resources in it 
In the present situation with Pontius Pilate presiding - in spirit at least - what is happening is that Canadian and British interests are moving in quickly. The prospects are they will take over and dominate the Australian egg industry in a reasonably short time. This will abdicate control of the family's breakfast egg to board rooms in Montreal and London. They will determine the size, the quality and the price. In such a situation of absentee control the housewife's interests will suffer and the Australian egg producer will simply follow the exodus from Australia's farms which the Government is accepting and by its attitude has been encouraging. If this is to be contested, if this is to be halted, then let the Government make a modest start to stability in the countryside by tackling the urgent problem of an industry of which we are reminded every time an egg smiles up at us at breakfast time. The issue is not one of Sydney or the bush; it is one for all the community and all Australians together. I want to enter a modest plea to the Parliament lh's morning after so much thunder and smoke. Let us unite in defence of the Australian egg or be prepared to take what someone else gives us for breakfast in the future. 
I rise in this debate particularly to direct attention to the activities of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation in relation to our nearest neighbour. Indonesia. When we look at the activities of the Corporation during the last 10 years we find that the coverage given by the Corporation has varied considerably. It has ranged from $3. 5m - that is the value of goods covered in 1963-64 - to $8m in 1960-61: or, putting it another way, the value of these goods has fallen from 36.3% of total Australian exports to Indonesia to 0.1 % - in effect, to zero. 
I wish to direct attention to the fact that although great fluctuations have occurred in the political, economic - and, for that matter - the sociological aspects of Indonesia and its development since independence, there has been truly a continuing interest by Australia. I would hope at least that. If we say this, I doubt very much whether we mean it in any significant sphere. Certainly the sphere covered by this Corporation does not indicate that we have that interest in our nearest neighbour, and potentially our most important neighbour if we look into the future. 
It is true that the amount of trade as a whole - not only the amount of trade covered by a number of or percentage of exports insured by the Corporation, but the total amount originating in Australia - is not very significant. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  gave us 2 very significant figures to think about. He always does that. I am grateful for them. He said that of $3,000m in exports from Australia possibly one-tenth was covered by the Corporation. 
When we consider our nearest neighbour, the Republic of Indonesia, we find that the export performance of Australia is something less than notable. We rind that we are seventh on the list. Honourable members may say: 'Oh, well, of course there are bound to be some of the great trading nations of the world that would do better than we would do, even with our nearest neighbour, which is on our own doorstep'. If we look at the countries which make up that list of 7, we find that, over the years, despite all the political fluctuations, Japan has retained its pre-eminence in exports to Indonesia. The Japanese, surely, started a long way behind scratch not only because of their own disasters in war but also because of the attitude of many of their neighbours in Asia following the Second World War. So the Japanese started a long way behind Australia which began in Indonesia as the helpmate at the birth of that new nation and was in an ideal position to cement an early relationship with trade in the best, I might say on that occasion, of English traditions, because if the English have taught us anything they have taught us that trade is an essential ingredient in binding nations together. 
However, let us look again at the nations and their participation in Indonesia in comparison with our own efforts in the export field. Second to the Japanese is the United Kingdom. The United States of America is third. Next comes Germany, then Italy. The next nation - of course, we might except this - is Holland. Holland had  a  tremendous part to play in Indonesia for a very long time. Australia follows in seventh position, a long way Gown the list. The list begins with exports in 1967 of S176m for Japan and comes down to $6m for Australia. 
It is interesting to look at the total Australian exports to Indonesia and to see what they have amounted to. According to the figures that I have, in 1968-69 Australian exports to Indonesia rose to approximately S20m. This is an effort, but what an effort compared with those of Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and so on. These are countries on the other side of the world, countries that are far removed from our nearest neighbour. So the figures at least cause us to ask: 'Are we doing enough in trade with the great nation that is on our doorstep and to which we helped to bring independence?' Obviously the answer given to us by the figures is no. Then we come to the role played by the Corporation. We find that in 1968-69 the percentage of exports insured was 0.8% - hardly significant at all. 
As I understood the purpose of the Corporation, it was to enter a sphere where there was some adventure, some stepping outside the normal lines of business and some special effort above and beyond normal commercial enterprise. To encourage Australian business to be adventurous we established this Corporation, yet it is obvious from the data that we have received that the Corporation ceased to function in Indonesia, that Australian business ceased to be adventurous in Indonesia, and nothing very much happened. All sorts of alibis can be used - there were difficulties, there was confrontation and there was political upheaval. All of these things are true, but how is it that the enterprising Italians, Germans, Englishmen, Japanese and Americans can do so much better in a nation where we were once the most favoured? It seems to me that there was little adventure and little enterprise in this nation closest to us. This is the point I have sought to make. 
I question also why the activities of the Corporation came to a halt. It has been suggested - I cannot vouch for this but I raise it here in the hope that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  will apply himself to the query - that the Corporation ceased to underwrite business with 
Indonesia at one stage because it was just too risky. In other words, while our competitors were underwriting business we were not as a country, or in this instance as a corporation, prepared to be that adventurous or that enterprising. The record calls for an examination and a review because it is in our interests, not only our commercial and trading interests, as a good neighbour seeking the stability of South East Asia to develop in every way our links with the Republic of Indonesia, our nearest neighbour. I have referred to its nearness 7 times, as you may have marked.  Mr Deputy Speaker.  How little this fact would be realised would bc discovered if we went into most Australian schools and posed the question: Which is the nation that is closest to us; which is the nation which is our nearest neighbour? I would venture to say that 9 times out of 10 the answer would be New Zealand. Knowing, of course, that New Zealand was once part of the spreading State of New South Wales administratively perhaps people should be forgiven for thinking that that relationship continues in some way or other, but the answer betrays this general lack of awareness of the nation next door. I have risen particularly to draw attention to this aspect of our nonparticipation in the developing life of Indonesia. 
A statement was made in this House by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in which he reviewed the whole of the foreign policy matters with which, in theory, we are concerned. It was a statement which covered many pages and which, I seem to remember, lasted for an hour. He devoted 25 words of that statement to Indonesia, a nation of 120 million people, one of the richest archipelagos in the world and a nation rich in resources that inevitably with the march of history and progress will become a powerful factor for stability in the whole of South East Asia. When there comes before the House a matter such as this, with such little display of interest in our nearest neighbour, we can perhaps understand why that disinterest is reflected in the activities of the trading people of our nation and by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry to examine and review the operation of the Corporation in relation to what has happened in Indonesia in the last 10 years and to the efforts that were being made by some Australian enterprises. I personally know of many Australian enterprises which have been happy to try. to adventure but which did not find much support for their effort. So I ask the Minister to examine this matter to see whether he can be satisfied, firstly, with the trading relations of. Australia and Indonesia; secondly, with the lack of enterprise we have shown as a nation; and, thirdly, that the policy of the Corporation or the policy of the Government dictated to the Corporation prevented it from acting in a way to promote greater, stronger and .more enduring trade links with our nearest neighbour. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the prune industry lose $27,620 as a result of the decision of the Commonwealth Government following the British devaluation of sterling. 
Did the industry lose a further amount of $942.88 on fruit still held in the Suez Canal. 
Have detailed submissions been made by the Australian Dried Fruits Association to his Department urging the payment of $28,563.11 compensation in the same way as compensation was granted to other larger and more influential industries. 
Was there a considerable delay in processing the submissions, and were they eventually refused. 
If so. will he re-consider this refusal to grant the same assistance to this industry as was granted to others with similar claims. 
I want particularly to refer to the remarks made tonight by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who, I am sorry to say, has disappeared. One would hope that he will reappear shortly. The origins of the debate on the subject 1 shall deal with, which was initiated tonight by the honourable member for Mallee, lie in the fact that I rose in the Parliament and actually had the temerity to point out that there were wicked inequalities in the wheat rationing system which was introduced in panic by the Government in the 1969-70 season. The honourable member for Mallee has now entered the chamber. I warmly welcome him back to the House. I am delighted to see that he is here, complete with head. In the midnight debates on wheat, which I jocularly referred to as the continuing story of 'Wheaten Place' - I see that it is almost midnight again - I suggest seriously that the money already earmarked by the Treasury to cover the deliveries of wheat in the 1969-70 season should be used for the purpose for which it was earmarked, that the whole crop should be taken in and the SI. 10 paid as a first advance on the whole wheat yield for 1969-70. 
The penalty for putting this very reasonable point of view was a tremendous tirade of abuse, by comparison with which the remarks of the honourable member for Mallee tonight were quite mild. But not only was there a tirade of abuse here; there was also quite an interesting series of broadsides fired later. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  was able to fire across the State one broadside of probably 100 shots in the form of Press announcements. Then another broadside of about 100 shots was fired by another Government supporter. Then the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  using his full panoply of power, issued a statement, as was his entitlement, in which he questioned the statement which I had made and put his own point of view. All this great weight of abuse and criticism swept across my electorate, as well as the electorate of every other honourable member. In case anyone might have missed it, there were 300 shots. In defence of my point of view, and the view of the constituents whom 1 represent and who had asked me to put it, I issued a modest statement of about 20 shots strong. It was 20 against 300; David versus Goliath. But apparently I had the temerity to do this, and it was actually published in one or two places. I made a very mild reference to the honourable member for Mallee. This is what I said, in case anyone has a doubt about it: 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said the uncertainty has always been that way for primary producers. They knew they would get a 20% cut. 
He then referred lo me, as he did again this evening and said: 
No use calling on high heaven and such things. We must keep our heads. 
I was very kind to the honourable member because I might say that he misrepresented me in the very first moments of his speech on that night. He said:  1 think that all honourable members will realise that he put on an act . . . The  Speaker  had to call him to order. He said: 'I feel it so much that I can hardly control myself. I can control myself . . . 
He was all right. This magnificent paraphrasing was of a statement that I made. This is a little bit of misrepresentation for which I accept the honourable member's apology. What he based the statement on and what I said was: 
If 1 speak with some emotion on this subject it is because of the situation of the people 1 represent. 
Having misrepresented me the honourable member then dealt with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and talked about a drunk that he had met in a railway carriage. I was not very happy with that but I did not publish that in his electorate. I might say that he got off very lightly indeed. 
The only other honourable member whom I quoted in the statement was the honourable member for Gwydir. I gave him full credit for all his flow of adjectives. I did not want him to feel that his attack had gone unnoticed, so 1 used all the words that he attributed to me - wild and emotional, theatrical and hysterical, and ranting. What a wonderful selection that is. 1 give my compliments lo the honourable member for Gwydir. This was his response to a plea on behalf of wheat growers. We find that we have a situation where in a series of debates we have as a substitute for action, as a substitute for mature consideration, a tirade of abuse; that is all. 'The problems of the countryside,' said the gentlemen concerned, are that the honourable member for Riverina is wrong.' This was the level of the 3 debates. 
If the honourable member for Mallee is terribly worried about this I tell him right now that if he wishes I will forward any copies of Hansard to which he has referred tonight. I think that he should make them generally available. They would make fascinating reading. They would change the habits of the population away from Peyton Place to Wheaten Place; I am certain of that. They would be very interested to read the constructive suggestions that have been put forward. 
I cannot quite hear the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  but I seem to remember that he also interjected on that evening. I hope that he is proud of the part that he played. After all, this was a serious matter raised on behalf of growers in relation to a difficult situation. The answer that they received was abuse. Tonight another attack has been made in a more subtle way. Those honourable members should not apologise to me for being intemperate but they ought to apologise to the country people for not taking notice of their needs and not doing something about the crisis as it is at the present time. This smokescreen of words, this exercise of diversion will not do. That is the message that should go forth from this Parliament tonight. 
I am grateful for that interjection. I have said previously in an adjournment debate exactly what Labor's policy is for 1969-70. For the benefit of the Minister I will repeat it with the full support of every one of my colleagues here. The common sense and just thing to do with the wheat for 1969-70 would be to take it into storage and pay the $1.10 first advance for which the Treasurer has earmarked the money. If honourable members opposite need any assurances, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is the  Chairman  of the Rural Industry Committee of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Partv, will be delighted to give them a lecture on what can and should be done. The truth is a very hurtful thing at times. I think that the exercise tonight was one of those continuing exercises of diversion. I have said this, and I repeat it. Quite frankly, I feel, though, that in justice to the honourable member for Mallee I should refresh honourable members' minds as to what he said. He referred to losing one's head. I want to quote what he said. He said: 
. one cannot do any good for wheat growers or anyone else if one loses one's head 
I agree with that. Then he starts calling to high heaven about things. 
I was just quoting the honourable member's speech. I think it was a very interesting one. If the honourable member has something to say about the problems of the wheat industry, he has all the opportunities in the world to say it. I said my piece and I was criticised for it. I was abused for it inside and outside the House. I took the one commonsense step that I should take in defence of my position, in defence of my colleagues and in defence of the policies that we espouse. Against an avalanche from honourable members opposite and an avalanche of paper from outside the House, I made a modest issue to all those concerned in my own electorate  -  20 against 300. As I say, it was like David against Goliath. I think that the end result will be exactly the same. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  agreed to: That  the question be now put.  Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
When was the joint study of proposals to standardise the Tocumwal/Mangalore railway line carried out (Hansard 9th April 1970, page 1020). 
What personnel were engaged on the actual investigation. 
Did members of the study group confer with the authorities and organisations which made the sixteen submissions to his Department on the desirability of the project; if not, why not. 
Will he make the report available to the Parliament and to interested bodies. 
We have just listened to the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  enter a debate in a low key in which he used words like 'ambiguity' and 'misunderstanding between friends', made passing reference to what he called the Labor Party's view on co-operative federalism' and defended what happens when a government changes. He did not address himself to many people in the Parliament. In fact, he addressed himself to a small number in this House about whom he and the Government are concerned. But I want to say that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  gave a very wise decision earlier this afternoon when you dealt with the matter that exercised your mind and which was raised by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  because when he said that this was not just an issue touching on a technical or a constitutional matter you had doubt in your mind as to whether the matter was a broad one. I am pleased to say that you ruled that the honourable member for Wills was totally in order in pinpointing this issue today. The crystalisation of this entire matter is, in fact, not just good faith or bad faith on this occasion. lt is not just the matter of rae man of honour and of whether we stand with him or not, it is the matter of the whole performance of an administration in relation to the States. In fact, this is the point that I particularly want to refer to because I want to say at the outset that I did not come to Canberra to set a shovel and help the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  to bury the States and their needs. I came, indeed, to join with men of goodwill to strengthen the entire fabric of administration and upgrade it in the interests of the nation. 
Having said that, we can go from there to have a look at this moment of quite historic importance. The issues, as 1 see them, are clear. They are neither technical nor constitutional. As I said, the honourable member for Wills and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  particularly placed emphasis on the Commonwealth and State relations involved. The importance of this matter is that it is an important trial of the earnest of the Commonwealth Government in its relation? with the States. In fact, what we are. dealing with is a piece of bad faith.  Lt  might bc said that it is a double-cross of national dimensions because behind all the nice words this is surely what is involved. Let us strip away all the polite facade from it. What was said by the Prime Minister was that the honourable member lor Fairer  (Mr Fairbairn)  was wrong, that he had misinterpreted the issues or that he had deliberately, perhaps, misunderstood them. 
If he is wrong he must have deliberately misunderstood them because as the responsible Minister dealing with his State colleagues closely and continuously - I will have more to say about them in a moment - he could not have had any doubt at all in his mind as to what they believed. 
I want to draw attention to the fact - an important fact in this entire matter - that the honourable member for Farrer is the Federal member for the area represented by the New South Wales Minister for Mines.  Mr Wal  Fife and the honourable member for Farrer are close associates and close friends. They see each other with regularity, they discuss things in a close way because they are of the same electorate, the same part of the world and, indeed, are of the same Party. Surely it is not suggested thai the honourable member for Farrer should come into the House and say: "Of course, 1 and the State Ministers, including my close colleague from New South Wales, have all been wrong'? Are honourable members opposite asking that he come in here and say: 'We were all wrong together' and then go home at the weekend and when he sees his colleague in Wagga say: 'I am sorry, I had to turn my back on all our discussions. I had to change my mind. I had to compromise my principles. I had just to stand in line because I was told to do so'? This is not going to happen and honourable members opposite would not expect it to happen. 
This is an intimate matter touching on relationships with people as well as relationships between one Minister and another. I would expect the honourable member for Farrer to stand by what he has done and by what he has said, and also to stand with the State Ministers concerned. Let us be quite clear about this: If the honourable member for Farrer is wrong and the Prime Minister is right, then every State government is wrong and every Minis:cr lor Mines is also in error. This is a mighty error, is it not? It seems that the summation of the Prime Minister's case is: 'They are ail out of step except our John'. This is a very big claim to make even for a Prime Minister, and it will hot bear close examination. 
The confrontation today is not a confrontation between the honourable member for Farrer and the Prime Minister - between Fairbairn and Gorton as it has been suggested in the headlines - it is a confrontation between capricious dictatorship and responsibility at various levels, particularly at the State level. I do not think there is anybody in the Parliament or in the Commonwealth today who does not feel that there is room - indeed, a great deal of room - for a revision of Commonwealth and State relations. There is no doubt about this at all. But with the structure that we have there is also very little doubt in anybody's mind in State administrations that there has been capricious dictatorship and this is the culmination of it. So surely this is the time when we should say that it has gone far enough. 
Perhaps 1 can illustrate some of the incidents which have led up to this particular confrontation. In the Parliament of New South Wales it has been known for a responsible Minister of State, calling upon the full panoply of power in his department and all its expertise, to formulate a submission which has gone to his appropriate opposite number in the Federal sphere. It has been a submission from one Minister to another, a submission between equals, but what has been the response? It has not been a response from Canberra by the Minister with the responsibility, but a response from a girl in the office who has signed it on his behalf. This sort of casual disdain is not good enough. This may be a small matter, but it is indicative of an attitude that has been growing. This is simply the tip of the iceberg, and that is all. 
The mining dispute has been going on for some considerable time but there have been many other occasions that call for comment. We should look at this matter in the context that there is a growing restlessness about and a growing rejection of fiscal and physical dictatorship from the present Administration. This is obvious in respect of every issue that has been raised in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales. This is not an isolated incident. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I seek your guidance. Let me pose this to you: When you were dealing with the speech of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  he did point out that what he was trying to do was to put this entire matter in its proper context. It was not an isolated matter; it was part of a whole chain of events in Commonwealth and State relations. If I may explain, I do not intend to debate the subject matter of the various, shall I say, matters of concern to State Ministers. I did want to refer to the nature of the relations which I believe have given rise to this confrontation today. I hope I may be permitted to do that. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  If you wish, I shall contract to the particular point. I say again that this has been simply part of a pattern. 1 also say that it is not a sufficient excuse for, for example, the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  to come into the debate as. I gather, the one dedicated sincere friend and father confessor of the Prime Minister because he was the only one who took upon himself that role today. He came into the debate with a defence which seemed to me to be the weakest defence of all. He told us that the Prime Minister was a busy man. He told us that the Prime Minister was concerned with the election. We were all concerned with the election; even I was. In addition he was concerned with the turbulence of that period. It seemed to me that in defending his leader on this occasion the honourable member for Evans may well have placed his finger on the essential weakness in this matter because the whole defence of the Prime Minister was that he could have misunderstood, the honourable member for Farrer could have misunderstood, everyone could have misunderstood. 
In fact, what the Prime Minister has said is: T do not care who misunderstood what. I do not care what was done before. This is what I intend to do. That is the decision. I have Cabinet backing for it, or at least Cabinet has agreed with me. I intend to go ahead no matter what'. 
Surely that is the issue and the defence of the Prime Minister that was put up by the honourable member for Evans was not, I feel, a defence but in fact an indictment because he placed the whole of the responsibility on the Prime Minister. It seems to me, then, that what he is saying is: 'For goodness sake, do not blame the Government. Whatever you do, leave the Government out of this. If you must blame anyone, blame the Prime Minister but do not blame him too much'. This is an incredible situation in which the only firm defence of the Prime Minister has come from the honourable member for Evans in those terms. He knows, as I think we all know, that this matter is part of a pattern of casual disdain for State rights which has been growing. That is the feeling in every State of the nation. That is the feeling to which I, as a former member of the Legislative Assembly in New South Wales, can testify. 
We heard the Minister for the Navy with his alibi doing his very best to say that it is all an awful and terrible misunderstanding, but if the misunderstanding is a misunderstanding of the meaning of honour, a misunderstanding associated with the breaking of solemn obligations, of understandings which were entered into freely and should be honoured, if this is regarded as being something of minor importance, then where do we go from here? It was stated by a member of the Opposition during the debate that if every discussion between Ministers and if every matter that has to be dealt with between the Commonwealth and the States must be set down in a legal document signed before a neutral witness, what kind of government will we have in the remaining period of this administration? 
There has to be a certain amount of trust in government. Certainly if there is no trust between the Federal Government of one persuasion and every State Government of the same persuasion on a clear matter such as this, then we are running into a period of legislative chaos. We cannot continue on that basis. This is one of the major things before us today. The issue is broad and deep in its ramifications. It is an issue of power and the exercise of power. This is a matter which perhaps has been run away from. But 1 have not yet heard from any of the defenders of the Government's action, and particularly of the Prime Minister any applications of their argument to the exercise of power in this matter. 
An attempt has been made to make this a purely personal issue between 2 men. This has been the effect, or the intention - noi the effect certainly, but the intention - of every defending  speaker.  I come back to the fact that this is an issue of the wielding of power and the way in which it is done. If the honourable member for Farrer has the courage to come into the national forum and say that this is something that he must stand by, the least that we can do is to stand with him. The issue today, 1 feel, is of either standing with a man of honour or accepting dishonour as the price of power. 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs- Minister for National Development) [4. 16J  -  The debate has reached at the present time a stage of repetition, as you have probably noticed,  Mr Deputy Speaker. Speaker  after  speaker  on the Opposition side have quoted extracts from the papers which have been tabled and repeated what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and other speakers on that side. I do not doubt that for the time that we must wait for a few members to arrive we will continue to hear some repetition of the remarks of previous speakers. 
I wish to refer to one or two points which have been raised by honourable members during the debate and then to try to get back to one or two points of major issue as far as the background to the present situation is concerned. I wish to refer to one or two points which so far have not been covered. First of all. I wish to correct what was said by the Leader of the Opposition and I think was not clearly answered later. I think that the Leader of the Opposition probably misquoted at the time when he quoted from the minutes of a meeting indicating quite clearly that an undertaking was given to hold a further meeting. He said that that meeting was not held. Then his attention was drawn to the fact that he was quoting from the minutes of the March meeting and not the minutes of the September meeting. In case this had not been elaborated clearly for the record. I wish to clarify this point now. The quotation by the Leader of the Opposition was from the minutes of the March meeting. The undertaking that was given then for a further meeting was fulfilled by the meeting that was held in September. I think that the Leader of the Opposition made an honest mistake by quoting as he did, but I think that the record should be clarified in that regard. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  referred to the fact that, in the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  no reference was made to the change in the proposed legislation prior to the September meeting, where at that point in time the reference was all to the '3 mile limit, and the low water mark' decision was made subsequently by a Cabinet decision, and is incorporated in the legislation which is before the House at the present time. [ think that the honourable member for Farrer on reflection will acknowledge that the Prime Minister was not dealing with this aspect. He was dealing with the points which have been raised and which are confirmed by the amendment moved by the Opposition today, and which is in the terms of a censure motion in relation to the undertakings which were supposed to have been given and which the honourable member for Farrer believes were given. But the proposals at this time are not relating to the legislation. I will deal with one or two matters in relation to what I told the State Mines Ministers at the meeting that I had with them fairly recently. These matters deal with the situation in regard to the changed proposals for the new legislation. 
The honourable member for Farrer also said that the telegrams which I had sent lo the State Mines Ministers had not been sent until a short time before the GovernorGeneral's Speech was made. That, of course, is quite correct. He said that some Ministers did not receive their telegrams before the Speech was made. I believe that there was 1 Minister, namely, the Western Australian Minister, who, because there was a holiday in that State on the Monday and we here did not realise that when the telegrams were sent on the Monday morning, did not receive his telegram until the Tuesday morning. But my understanding is that he did receive it before the GovernorGeneral's Speech was made in Canberra during the Tuesday afternoon. To the best of my knowledge, all the other State Mines Ministers received on the Monday the telegrams that were sent to them. In fact, they did not indicate otherwise when we were having discussions with them later. 
The honourable member for Farrer also referred to the fact that he had stated that there would be further meetings with the State Mines Ministers. This was related to the minutes and transcript of the meeting in March 1969. In fact, as has been stated here today, additional meetings were held with the State Mines Ministers. There was a meeting of. the Australian Minerals Council in September, which is covered by the minutes and transcript tabled in the House, and there was a further meeting of State Mines Ministers which I called, which was also attended by the Attorney-General and which was held in Melbourne during March 1 970. 1 will refer more to that meeting in a few minutes. 
The honourable member for Farrer also referred to the fact that copies of the Bill and the second reading speech were to be sent to the States, as I had indicated in the rough notes covering my meeting with the State Ministers. I do not know whether it has been stated in the House before, but that has been done. Copies of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and of my second reading speech were sent to all the Mines Ministers and '-hey all acknowledged receipt of those documents. When the second Bill, the one in relation to the mining code, is introduced - it should be drafted and available for presentation to the Parliament within the next few weeks - 1 will immediately send copies of it, together with copies of the second reading speech, to the Mines Ministers. I indicated to them that this would be done so that they would have the opportunity to study the 2 Bills and the second reading speeches before they met together again to discuss the matters and to decide on any future action that they wish to take. 
The honourable member for Farrer also made reference to some comments that I made in the House recently after he had made his statement. He referred to the part of my speech in which I said that I had not realised that he, the previous Minister for National Development, had such firm views - or had firm views - in relation to the points he raised at a party meeting and subsequently, until after the Cabinet meeting at which the decision in relation to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill was made. That, of course, is quite correct. But the point I would like to make is that after the submission had been made to Cabinet a Cabinet decision was made, and it was made on the understanding which had been given to Cabinet and which was confirmed by the previous AttorneyGeneral, who is now a member of Cabinet, that the accepted view of the Government was identical with that expressed by the Prime Minister today. So there was no reason for me and for other honourable members at that lime to suspect the strongly held views of the honourable member for Farrer. It was not until he expressed them at a Party meeting here and also in the House, and in discussions with me both privately and in Committee meetings later on, that I understood his feelings in relation to it. 
That was the point I was making when I referred to it in the House. The honourable member for Farrer also confirmed this impression that I had when he stated today that he was staggered when he first learned from the Governor-General's Speech of the proposed legislation to be introduced by the Government. At that time, he said, he approached many people in many quarters and clearly stated his position. Of course, we know that he did that and I have already stated that that is the action which he took, but this confirms what I said in my comments the other day which were queried by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  today, namely, that I had not realised the honourable member felt so strongly in relation to it until well after the Cabinet meeting. Indeed, as he has said today, he did not take action to stress his feelings in relation to it until he knew from the Governor-General's Speech what action the Government contemplated and proposed. 
There is one point borne out in this and that is that under normal circumstances when there is a change of Ministers within the same Government there is usually a handing over from one Minister to the other. Matters of importance, or matters that should be drawn to the attention of the new Minister, are normally explained at that time. But under the unusual circumstances whereby the honourable member for Farrer had resigned from the Ministry the usual type of changeover operation did not take place. As I said before, I did not have an opportunity of seeing the honourable member or discussing any matters with him subsequent to the first Party meeting in Canberra and when the House met. But 1 will say that subsequent to that I have had many discussions with the honourable member, who is the  Chairman  of the National Development Committee with which I work very closely; indeed I have attended most of the meetings which have been held since Parliament has been in session. I must say that since then and since I have had the opportunity of discussions with him he has gone out of his way to be helpful to me in relation to many matters concerning my Department. 
I still reiterate what I said at the outset, that is. that we did not have an opportunity under the circumstances for any discussions prior to the first Party meeting here and the sitting of the new Parliament. I have stated and I reaffirm that 1 have already met the State Ministers for Mines to discuss matters which are pertinent to this debate. 1 am a firm believer in personal contact in these matters, as I am sure most honourable members are aware, and I will continue this type of contact with the States. T will very shortly be again in contact with the State Ministers for Mines. The next meeting of the Australian Minerals Council, which originally was to be held in May, is arranged to be held, provided Parliament rises in time, about the middle of June in Perth, at which time the opportunity will be taken with all the other Ministers for Mines to view the development in the north west. I merely refer to this to show that there will be continuity of contact through the Minerals Council. So far as I am concerned, as many other opportunities as possible will be taken to maintain the closest possible relationship. 
The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  during his speech today made some statements which 1 feel should be corrected. 
He said that the comments I had made in this chamber the other day, and a reference I made earlier today, show that I was positively convinced that the commitment referred to by the honourable member for Farrer and refuted today by the Prime Minister and the previous Attorney-General had been made. He added that the telegrams I sent to the State Ministers indicated confirmation that I was so convinced. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that that is not correct because, as I stated a moment ago, when the Cabinet meeting was held and the submission to honour the undertaking given by the previous Minister was brought forward by me for consideration in Cabinet, the whole of the discussion - of course, 1 cannot refer to the details of a discussion in Cabinet - revolved around the understanding which has been set out by the Prime Minister in his statement today and the opinions which were given by the previous Attorney-General and the present Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  1 wanted to clarify that particular point in case the honourable member for Lang still misunderstands my position. 
The honourable member also said that the Commonwealth went ahead with proposals for the new legislation without telling the States. As I have already said today, we did send telegrams to the individual State Ministers for Mines before the GovernorGeneral made a public announcement on the matter. This was done out of courtesy to ensure that they had the advice before the Governor-General made the announcement; but this was not the introduction of legislation. This was an announcement that the Government intended to introduce this legislation during this session of Parliament. 
Before the legislation was introduced, and indeed before the Bill had been finally drafted, we met the State Ministers for Mines and indicated to them exactly what would be in the legislation when the drafting was finalised. In fact we had with us at the time a rough copy of the Bill. We discussed aspects of it with the State Ministers. They are the 3 occasions on which the States were advised that the legislation was to be introduced - not the 3-mile limit legislation but the proposals on the grounds which were stated by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  a moment ago, and also have been mentioned in this House, and were clearly set out in my second reading speech on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. I repeat, it was not on the subject of the 3-mile limit but on the basis of legislating to take sovereignty from the low water mark across the continental shelf. This was clearly set out in the telegrams to which I referred. It was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech and it was discussed at length - over a whole morning - with the State Ministers on 26th March 1970 in Melbourne. I have mentioned that again to point out the error of the honourable member for Lang in saying that the States had not been advised before we went ahead with the legislation. It is clear that they were in fact advised on 3 separate occasions. 
As I pointed out, in addition copies of the Bill and my second reading speech were sent to the State Ministers immediately the Bill was introduced here. A copy of the second Bill and the additional second reading speech will be sent to them immediately they are available. As my time has nearly run out I will need to be brief. I had meant to deal with a few other points but 1 would like now to return quickly to the 2 points Which have been brought out and have been covered today in the alleged misunderstanding that has arisen. The first relates to what has been stated to be an agreement with the States regarding the legislation in relation principally to off-shore minerals. Of course, ali the evidence and the transcript show that there was no such agreement. Secondly the question revolves around arrangements for further discussions before the final decision was made by the Commonwealth. This point was dealt with extensively by the Prime Minister in his statement today. It was clearly covered. I refer to the statement merely because it deals at length with the various aspects of that point. 
I again would like to emphasise that the vital undertaking given at that time to submit the States' views to the Commonwealth Cabinet was honoured. I submitted their views, as arranged by the former Minister, at the end of January. Their views were considered very carefully by Cabinet before the final decision about the present legislation was made. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What were the quantities, cash values and countries of origin of processed potatoes and potato products imported into Australia in the past 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Government carrying out an inquiry into education. 
If so (a) what is the scope of the inquiry and how is it being carried out, (b( who is engaged in the inquiry, (c) when was it commenced, (d) when is the report expected, and (d) will the report be made available to the Parliament and to interested bodies. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Will he arrange for the appropriate officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to study the current mice plague in New South Wales, including the role of marsupial mice, with  a  view to delineating factors which led to the plague, and to elucidating practical means of prevention or control. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Docs the Government intend to proceed by legislation with the establishment of its proposed wool marketing authority? Did  Sir William  Gunn announce that the authority would be operational by 1st May and would operate in the August wool sales? Have industry spokesmen described the announced proposal as a means of maximising profits for brokers, who will dominate the authority, and buyers but not growers? If legislative authority is not to be sought, will the Minister say why he proposes to bypass the Parliament, or is the proposal already stillborn? 
I was aware of that and I did not intend to stray. What I intended to do was merely to sum up the position in relation to this measure on a note of high stability. It might be a very good preliminary reference to the next measure on this industry that will be coming before the House. I will just give these 2 brief sentences which I quote from the 44th annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. The report says: 
By contrast with many other Australian industries the Australian taxpayer has not been required to assist the Australian dried fruit grower in any way. 
The report also says: 
In general terms the Board is unaware of any agricultural commodity in the world trade today having had a greater degree of stability since 1963 than dried vine fruits. 
I think this is a remarkable testimony to an industry which has had great hardship but which has done so extraordinarily well. 1 join with my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson, in commending this measure. I hope that, against this background of extraordinarily fine performance, we will be able to note and act accordingly to the needs which are created so regularly as the result of the natural disasters which are endemic in the areas and to the industry itself. I support the measure. 
This is a vital debate because the Bill before the House deals with the first grant to be made under the new national water resources development programme. In his second reading speech the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  told us that this grandiosely named programme will involve about S20m a year for 5 years. Ad&gt;' announcement, however modest, concerning the development of our national water resources seems to bring forth a protest, perhaps exemplified earlier in this debate by the interjections of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who I am delighted to see has returned to the chamber. He described, in a very fervent interjection, one of the major conservation projects of the nation as a white elephant. He also described this debate as a farce because of lack of supporting data. This I will deal with, but the water protestants, as I term them, are usually victims of one of our national myths, and that is that we as a nation have spent a great deal of money in the country generally on water conservation. This is just not true. Until the advent of the Snowy scheme we had, in the 70 years since Federation, spent on all of the water projects in this nation less than we have spent on so-called defence projects in 1 year. So, in fact, as a nation we have spent very little relatively on water conservation. Yet even this proposed modest outlay will call forth - and I am sure that this Bill will, in some quarters, cell forth - some of the harshest criticism from what 1 term the suburban lobby which, of course, is to be found not only in the Parliament but among academics and many writers. 
The suburban lobby adopts 2 standards, and members of it practise economic apartheid. They will spend their powers of intellect and debate to question and probe under this Bill the S 12.8m for water conservation, yet they will accept without question expenditure of 10 times that magnitude on a wide range of unproven purchases abroad for doubtful purposes at home. They will accept without question tariff protection which will not add significantly to the employment of the nation and will not cause any great saving in our export earnings or our import buying, whichever term we like to apply to them. They will accept that without great debate and with no great heat, yet the expenditure of $12. 8m on water conservation will call forth from many quarters the harshest scrutiny and the harshest criticism. I am not saying that we should run away from the demands in the House this evening or in any other section for the fullest possible examination of all the possibilities and of all the data. But I think that in relation to water confusion -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I 9 id 'confusion' by mistake, but I might say that the confusion about water conservation in Australia has never been greater. 1 think that sums it up rather well. I said water confusion in error, but I will stand by it. 
1 think 1 should know. The confusion about water conservation in Australia has never been greater. Casual critics have been calling for what they have termed a moratorium on dam construction. They have called for this without even knowing what they were saying. They fail to realise that water is a multi-purpose commodity and their narrow vision of it, in their own minds, is that it is exclusively for irrigation farmers. This is hopelessly in error. The total water projects under construction in the nation at the last date available amount to $729m. Of this amount, $432m is primarily for urban water supply. Of the $297m remaining the projects span flood control, salinity control and some existing town water supplies outside metropolitan areas. A minority portion only could be described as being purely for irrigation purposes. I might say that the men who have called for a stop to water conservation - a moratorium on dam construction as they have called it - would be the first to howl if they got up in the morning, went to their bathrooms and turned on taps which did not produce some water. 
1 am not aware what tap he turns on. Let me be quite blunt. The state of confusion of the critics of water conservation and of irrigation is perhaps best illustrated by the recent correction issued by  Dr Bruce  Davidson.  His  recent book has been hailed as a devastating attack on irrigation. It referred to the fact that existing schemes have hindered rather than helped economic development with a net national loss of at least S5,000m. This was the statement by  Dr Davidson.  In his correction he dramatically changed the figure of $5,000m to $748m - a minor correction. But this was the devastating attack.  His  book was hailed as the most trenchant criticism of irrigation, the most pertinent criticism that has been published for a whole generation, but an analysis of this work indicates that he failed to take into account vital considerations which would change entirely his figures and therefore his conclusions. I might just mention two of them without going into detail in this debate. I invite honourable members who might be interested to apply themselves to the  2  considerations that  1  intend to mention. One was in relation to some of the industries, the thermal industries for example, that he compared with the Snowy scheme. ] refer to  2  considerations, one of pollution and the other of the time factor in relation to the replacement of plant and equipment. He ignored both of these vital considerations. Of course, his conclusions are there to be examined. I suggest an academic and careful examination of these particular factors, but when this examination is undertaken it will be found that the attack on irrigation from that source failed miserably through its confusion and its inadequacy. The support for this measure must lie in the fact that it is needed to improve the efficiency and stability of a major export industry and surely this is where again the critics of irrigation fall down. They overlook the fact that Australia is export dependent. One third of Australia's agricultural output is drawn from irrigation. 
The honourable member opposite says it is not so. 1 invite him, and I understand he will follow me in this debate, to quote-- 
 I want to direct the attention of the Committee to clauses 6 and 7 particularly. These relate to the entitlements of the State being limited if the Minister is not satisfied that reasonable progress has been made. That is one point. The other, of course, is that clause 7 is a pretty sweeping provision, lt states that where the Minister has requested the Slate to furnish information in relation to the design or construction of the work, and unless the State has furnished thai information, the Minister would deny the State financial assistance. The Minister has to be satisfied that the design and construction are in accordance with the purposes of the work that has been agreed. He has to be satisfied wilh the contract. 1 ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  whether, in this particular context, this represents a completely new and radical departure in Commonwealth and State relations. In case the Minister has any doubts about the importance of this matter, I refer him to the fact that the Commonwealth has made money available for the Copeton Dam project in New South Wales This is a project about which there has been considerable controversy both in regard to the letting of the contract and in respect of the future use of the water to be impounded there. 
I draw attention also to the fact that the Commonwealth is a contributor to and  a  participant in a partnership way in the development of the Colleambally irrigation area which, for the information of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  is about 5 times the size of the Ord River area and therefore would warrant his attention in respect of its economics and its sound basis. However, I say that in passing. The Colleambally scheme was drawn up and it was the subject of approaches to the Commonwealth Government. Eventually there was agreement that joint legislation should be enacted at both the Commonwealth and State level. This legislation has, in fact, been. passed. Now the question arises whether the assessment of the scheme is to be judged by the Commonwealth in the same way as it is proposed that the Commonwealth shall make decisions in respect of the legislation now under consideration. 
I have quoted 2 instances where there may be some doubt as to whether the joint intention is being honoured. In clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill it is spelt out very precisely that the Commonwealth will reserve the right not to make finance available unless the intention of the project, as agreed to by the State and the Commonwealth, is followed through and implemented. I think we should hear from the Minister on this aspect during the Committee stages because this provision seems to mark a considerable departure in respect of Commonwealth contributions to State projects. I seek to relate clauses 6 and 7 to what the Minister said more or less in answer to the honourable member for Wakefield who said that the cost of the headworks should be borne by the farmers. I hope that I am not misquoting the honourable member but no doubt he will correct me if I am wrong. The Minister, in reply to the honourable member, said that the water charges would cover operation and maintenance and a 25% contribution to the cost of the headworks. Again I think the Minister is in duty bound to indicate whether or not he is undertaking a radical departure from what has been accepted since the findings of the Pike Royal Commission which established clearly that it was unfair and inequitable to charge farmers alone for the cost of headworks. I commend to the honourable member for Wakefield a study of the findings of that Royal Commission before he pursues this subject further. 
I think that the Minister has a responsibility in relation to this Bill to say whether the Commonwealth requires, under clauses 6 and 7, that this be done as a condition of Commonwealth financing. If it is I think we would contest it, because there is certainly no proof at all that if we regard water as a multi-purpose commodity we should single out any one section of those favoured by its use for the whole cost of the works, or even this arbitrary section of the works which is to be charged against it. There is an important issue here, not only in relation to this measure but in relation to the disbursement of the remainder of the funds, small and modest as they are, in the national water resources programme. I would ask the Minister to direct his attention to the queries that have been raised in this matter. If a decision has been made, I would also ask him to state, in order to clear this matter up, whether the Commonwealth has required that there should be a contribution to the headworks. If it has I would ask him whether he could relate that to the findings of the Pike Royal Commission in relation to the contributions to be made by primary producers for headworks designed, of course, to impound water for many purposes, not just for one purpose. I would also ask whether a formula has been devised which will give us precisely, as has apparently been done in this instance, a breakdown between secondary, tertiary and primary industries, service industries and perhaps just visiting householders and will show how all them are to be charged sectionally for what are in effect public works that are financed out of taxation to which we all contribute. I stress again that these are important matters of principle in relation to these 2 sections. I think there should be clear, full and definite explanations because it not only touches on what we do today but on what we may very well do in relation to the disposal of the remainder of the funds in the national water resources programme. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Bury)  agreed to: 
Thu! the question be now pui. 
Original question resolved in- the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I want to speak very briefly at the third reading stage. I will not encompass any of the matters that have been dealt with to date. I echo the sentiments expressed that for an important measure such as this, which deals with State grants at this particular stage of Federal-State relations, to be dealt with at this hour of the morning displays a scant realisation of the issues involved, and scant attention to them. Indeed, I think the term 'irresponsibility of government' might well be applied when such an important measure as this is handled in this way and at this time. I hope that when the next measure touching on Federal-State relations which has been foreshadowed by the Government comes down it will not be relegated to the graveyard of debates after midnight. I am well aware of the time. 1 am usually the lastto rise. 1 think this is something which many honourable members feel quite seriously and strongly about. It is unfortunate that we come to this measure at this time with the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  alone in the chamber, unsupported by any other Minister during the time of this debate. Now we come to the third reading stage which means that the debate has ended and we cannot go through the matters which we could have dealt with. It does little honour to this Parliament and pays little recognition to its fundamental responsibility to have this measure treated in this way. I enter a very modest protest at this hour of the morning because of the way the measure has been dealt with. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How was the guaranteed price for dried fruits arrived at. for the 1967 season. 
Were all the returns to growers on which the guaranteed price was based derived solely from dried fruits sales. 
If not. what percentage of the returns related exclusively to dried fruits sales. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many merino studs were there in Australia in each of the years since 1950. 
Can he say to what extent the merino ram breeding enterprises within Australia are now owned by non-Australian interests. 
If so, is he able to say to what extent these foreign interests are also engaged in the pastoral and wool industries in South America and South Africa, and in shipping and stock and general agencies serving those countries. 
In view of the partial lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams, do such international participants in ram breeding enterprises stand to lose or gain from a transfer of the merino wool industry from Australia lo countries with either low labour costs or with the labour force either under police direction or in a state of peonage. 
I am glad to see that the honourable member for Mallee is awake. What do the dairy farmers say? At. the Victorian Dairyfarmers Association conference held in Melbourne the Minister for Primary Industry in fact called for voluntary restriction on dairy production. There was a special report on this matter. It was pointed out, of course, that the call for restriction was too close to the 1970-71 season and was an extremely difficult operation for the dairy farmer himself to undertake. Surely this is another example of a crisis being allowed to develop and then a panic button being pressed. The Minister has brought into the House a measure to act as a guide to the dairy farmers and in effect to say to them: 'Well now, let us restrict. Let us now cut back. We have to do it. You are going too far.' I am wondering whether the panic is justified. What are we talking about? We are talking about 5,000 to 10,000 tons as against 230,000 tons of production. Is this a reason for panic at this stage? 
This panic has emerged from a background of extensive imports of cheese and other products, of some milk factories looking for products and of doubt as to whether the maximum effort is going into overseas sales and export activity. Let us have a look at some of the overseas challenges. One example that comes to mind is a possible market in Peru. Not so long ago it was reported that New Zealand had rushed a team to Peru for exploratory talks last September. The General Manager of the Australian Dairy Produce Board visited Peru in October last. There was obviously  a  race for the market there. The interesting thing is that the Reserve Bank apparently did not heed the need for some flexibility and supporting credit to enable us to get orders which we could have obtained with support at government and banking levels. 
Are we doing all we could do as a nation to support the export of products which we can produce very efficiently in many areas? We have seen the spectacle of overseas products hitting hard at our local products. Government credit policies are hamstringing overseas sales. Some processors have ben saying that they are short of dairy products. We have unlimited markets in Asia for processed products provided there is some government enterprise and efficient supporting services to enable us to exploit them. Instead, there is no talk by the Government of doing more in that regard. In fact there is talk of a cutback. 
It is true that some reconstruction must take place. Surely it is an abdication of national leadership that we have State and Federal schemes that appear to be diametrically opposed in their objectives. Surely it is time that we had some real national leadership in this industry. We could begin by recognising that we want and need the industry. We should review the whole of the support programme in relation to market needs. There is also a need to consider the restructuring of the total support to ensure that there is maximum production not only of what we need at home but also of exports that we could develop with proper government backing and enterprise. In other words the desire of the industry should at least be matched by the enthusiasm of the Government. 
We should certainly resolve the conflict between State and Federal programmes and, above all, there should be long term planning to replace the panic button pressing operations. If honourable members tonight need an example of confusion of planning at State and Federal level, surely we have it in the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication programme agreed to by the Australian Agricultural Council. The scheme completely overlooked the southern Riverina, an area which is recognised everywhere as being amongst the most efficient dairy areas in Australia. That area was ignored. What kind of national decision is that? It is quite typical of the fragmented approach. 
There is a certain amount of levity in the House, lt is approaching 2 a.m. 
I suppose we could be excused for the levity because the measures debated this evening - Commonwealth-State relations and the reconstruction of the dairy industry - are considered of such minor importance that they have been debated after midnight and not before. Therefore I can understand some levity. At present the problems facing the industry are not a cause for levity. There is a case for coordinated national decisions not bom of panic but based on sound integrated planning with both Federal and State authorities playing their parts. 
I welcome back the honourable member for Angas, who has awakened at 2 a.m., to the land of the living. I point out very bluntly and very seriously to him that at present, instead of talking eternally of cutbacks, we should talk in terms of expanding exports and of more active support by the Government. Honourable members opposite can say what they like about the industry at present, but it is able to do only a certain amount. 
That is right. If their approach to dynamic overseas selling and improvement in supportive services is that it is a complete joke, I think I agree with them that their efforts are a joke. Many honourable members opposite rise in the morning with Queen Victoria's concepts of trading and with that the timing of aproaches to matters that the Government has under discusion. I think it would be a very good exercise to look at the conflicts, to which I have referred this evening, between the State and Federal authorities - conflicts which are made obvious by the fact that it took the Government years to bring this legislation into the House. Many people in the dairy industry have resented being treated in a cavalier and a casual fashion when in fact, they have made a major contribution to the economy of the country. I have great pride in representing some of the people who have made that contribution. I suggest that the measures before the House tonight are part of a fragmented and disorganised approach to an industry which should enjoy a high priority in the considerations of government. I do not regard this measure as at all adequate. My colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and I accept it as an instalment on something that should be done and certainly as only a step and not an entire programme. We will await the next series of measures which will surely recognise that there is a' future to an industry which has contributed so much, in which so many people are involved and on which they depend. 
Why? 
To enable low income dairy farmers who voluntarily wish to do so, to leave the industry and to receive a fair price for their land and improvements: and, after the writing off of redundant assets, to make the land and useful improvements available lo other farmers so as to build up their properties to a viable family farm level and, where possible, diversifying the pattern of land use. 
Those are the points of the scheme which should be considered in this debate. But underneath these points there are conditions that apply to this scheme and to this agreement. 
The first condition deals wilh the definition of a marginal dairy farm. In what I might suggest is a rather flashing glimpse of the obvious the second reading speech states: 
lt must, of course, be a rural property.  The conditions continue: 
It must have at least some minimum number of cows. It is proposed to use as a minimum 20 lactating cows. 
This eliminates those farmers who are merely running a small number of cows as a sideline. 
That does not seem to me to be a satisfactory definition although it maybe in the agreement. Whether '20 lactating cows' means 20 potential milkers or 20 cows with half a dozen dry. I do not know, lt is not spelt out here. Nor indeed, if I could get on to a practical issue, does that definition indicate whether a forward springing heifer is or is not a lactating cow. 1 presume that these are details which can be fixed in the agreement and are part of the rights and responsibility of the State to introduce to the Commonwealth Government as part of the agreement between those 2 parties. 
The conditions as set out in the second reading speech continue: 
At least half of the gross income of the farm must be derived from the production of milk or cream sold at the manufacturing price. 
Now, I am not quite so amused by this part of the agreement. Perhaps the House would not mind if, for a minute, I spoke of the city milk scheme as it applies in South Australia. The first thing that I should say is that of all the schemes that have aimed at producing milk at a low price for ready consumption by people, the South Australian scheme leaves most others well in the lurch. It is a scheme that has benefited the consumer. Secondly, it is a very economic scheme because of the adjustability of the boundaries within which dairies are licensed. 
Let me outline as simply and as briefly as I can the basic principles of the scheme. Along any radius from within the boundaries of the scheme, which are in effect adjustable, dairies are licensed according to the standard of hygiene maintained at the dairy by its owner. In times of plentiful milk supply - shall we. say spring in the southern States - milk is drawn from the smallest circumference commensurate with the demand for milk in the city at that time. Although the milk is drawn from a small circumference only, the dairies that are licensed right out lo the periphery of the licensed area all share in the scheme as though they had sent their own proportion of milk into the city market. The price is equalised at that level. In autumn in the southern States when there is a small supply of milk due to seasonal influences and lack of feed the scheme might pull milk from the larger area, of licenced dairies. When spring comes there is a big supply of milk and it is hauled only from the area to meet the demand for milk by the consuming public in Adelaide. The scheme has the economic advantage of hauling milk the minimum distance required and yet it equalises payments for all licenced dairy farmers within that area. But there is another side lo the picture, lt is very important. The scheme is geared to a 4% butterfat component. In effect the percentage test, if it is the same as it was some years ago, is slightly higher than  4%.  So it is equalised in another way. A uniform percentage of milk exists in terms of butterfat sold to the consumer. I mention this because I think one matter we should keep firmly in mind is that cheese sales over a 10-year period have been soaring whereas by and large processed milk products have been saleable except for a short period. There is a world surplus of butter amounting to about 500 million tons. 1 think this House has heard me speaking on similar subjects before. We should be looking at ways in which we can dispose of surplus butter. If every capital city in Australia had a similar scheme to that in Adelaide which is based on 4% plus milk most of the surplus butter in this country would disappear within a reasonably short lime. My mathematics are not precise on this but it would make a tremendous difference to the surplus butter sitting in the channels of industry at present. 1 ask the Minister to use what influence it can through the Australian Agricultural Council to suggest the scheme as an economic one, a cheap one which suits the consumers and one that can dispose of some surplus butter. Is this not a viable scheme for this Government to suggest to State governments - not to dictate to them as the Opposition might like to do but to suggest and to point out that it might have advantages for their particular areas. 
Condition 3 which I have previously quoted leads me to the real cause of complaint which I want to air tonight. In spite of the fact that there is so much economic sense in the type of scheme- I have just described to the House, those capable of absorbing the facts will readily perceive (hat as the prices are equalised there is not a dairy farmer in the area who is eligible to take advantage of this reconstruction scheme. South Australia is about nine-tenths desert. Our viable agricultural area is not very great and it is logical to suppose that most of the dairy industry exists in the hills and areas surrounding the hills near Adelaide and down in the south eastern area. I maintain that a very large share of the dairy industry in South Australia has been precluded from the scheme. What economic nonsense is this? On the one hand wc have a scheme which is functional, efficient and economic for people who have to buy milk. On the other hand it is a very fair method of equalising payments irrespective of where the milk is drawn from. It is not a method that produces the quite ridiculous returns obtained in the elaborate quota system operating in Sydney, that has done nothing but increase in an artificial fashion the price of milk to consumers to an appalling extent and is not viable under any economic criteria. In spite of the fact that this is a good method it is totally precluded from any of the benefits of the scheme. 
I regret to have to say that I hope that the Minister will give me some assurance that he will meet as soon as he can the new South Australian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Casey,  who comes from the arid north, so that there will be a chance to explain some of these things to him - to see what can be done about this - because to my way of thinking it is certainly quite a ridiculous situation. The fourth condition as set out in the second reading speech, is: in the opinion of the State authority operating the scheme, the farm, if used wholly for dairying or purposes . . . 
That condition makes it quite plain that the Government of a State has the right to negotiate within certain limits with the Federal Government the various conditions applying to that State. I hope that this will happen because if the present Government of South Australia does not succeed in introducing some measure of relief into areas such as the one in which 1 live, where some farmers still have earth floors in their houses, there will be a grave miscarriage of justice because of the fact that a proportion of their income in that area, due to the city milk price being higher than the manufacturing price, takes the ratio beyond the SO-SO set down in this Bill as the minimum condition. 
I have not sufficient time tonight to deal with the other factors, but that is one of them. The reconstruction factors must be seriously discussed in relation to the difficulties of the dairying industry in this nation. I applaud the Government for bringing in this one factor. Although there are many other factors I wish to discuss I hope that the difficulties I have highlighted tonight can be resolved for the sake of many marginal dairy farmers within that efficient city milk area and surrounding outlets. 
The entire purpose of the series of measures before the Parliament is to continue some limited Commonwealth support to the dairy industry and to launch a marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme. These measures have been long heralded and long delayed but the implied purpose in them is that they probably will bring about some reduction in production. Of course the measures do nothing to reorganise farm production or reduce it. In fact if we interpret what they could mean, it is a possibility that they will reduce 50 farms to 25 farms. They could affect towns, they could affect people and they could affect decentralisation but they will not necessarily mean a reduction in production. I think the Minister for Pr mary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  might apply himself in that way to the implications that have been given to the measures. 
The legislation does nothing very much to help farmers staying on their farms to enter other forms of production. It does nothing to ensure that undesired product on is abandoned and more desirable production is stimulated. It is suggested that the Commonwealth and the States have virtually agreed to freeze the present number of dairy farms and that this implies acceptance of registration. It is an interesting implication which has been put forward. Again I think the Minister for Primary Industry should apply himself to the queries raised and tell the House precisely what is in h's mind and what is the Government's intention in this regard. 
The Government's proposal seems to mean that the dairy farmer has 2 choices. The first is to stay and use State aid schemes such as the New South Wales feed year scheme. The other is to sell and get out, by means of this legislation, and presumably move to the city. I say .that there is a third choice - reconstruction and rehabilitation. This really is not provided for in these measures. 
The total inadequacy of the Government's approach to the dairy industry is perhaps illustrated by the fact that we have a Commonwealth scheme to help dairy farmers get out of the industry while in New South Wales we have a scheme to help them stay in it. We have 2 schemes. Canberra says that it will help the dairy farmers go and Sydney says that it will help them stay. In case there is some doubt about this I think I should quote the reference by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin.  1 will quote from his speech in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly. He said: 
The allocation for the Minister for Agriculture includes a provision of $600,000 for the introduction of a new scheme to assist with the development of improved pasture systems in the North Coast dairying districts which are outside the milk zone . . . the Government nas been examining ways and means of giving further aid lo farmers in this area and it has been decided to introduce a special subsidy scheme to encourage improved agricultural practices with the objective of assisting the farmers to obtain greater productivity and profitability. 
This seems to indicate a desire to see an expansion in the industry.  Mr Duncan,  a member of the New South Wales Legslative Assembly, who represents one of the major dairying areas, visualises this present Commonwealth scheme that we are debating as underwriting the State scheme by assisting farmers who have participated in the build-up by providing long term loans to enable them to stock and develop their properties. Taking the matter a stage further in the thinking of the State we find another State member - again a member of the Government Parties, of course - stating that 3,600 dairy farmers on the north coast of New South Wales had co-operated with the Government in its feed year ass;stance scheme and that this was a practical and speedy method of bringing farms into increased production. The Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales said th:s 
More than 4,000 dairy farmers, or 80 per cent of those eligible, are participating in the first twelve months of the Government's feed year development scheme on the North Coast. 
Right through the statements of the Ministers and the members concerned there is an implication that New South Wales is engaged on an expansion production programme. 
 I extend the warmest congratulations to the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  for his eloquent and scholarly exposition on the wheat industry at this time. He could not have applied himself to a more important issue for the national Parliament and he did so particularly well. Being the first  speaker  to follow him I. would like, on behalf of all honourable members, to extend warmest congratulations, f also want to commend his concern for the economic security of the wool grower. I thought he put his finger very much on the problems that confront us in this debate in relation to the future of wheat. He recognised in his address that wheat growers had been encouraged to grow more wheat. He referred in specific terms to the fact that they had doubled acreages in general terms over a period of 10 years, that yields had doubled in that time and that this was a tribute to the Increasing efficiency of this- important rural industry. 
Everything had been going particularly well with the wheat industry for a very long time. It might be said that there had been a combination of fortuitous circumstances. But let us be quite blunt. There always has been pretty good competition in the sale of wheat throughout the world and Australia, through the Australian Wheat Board, generally has done quite well. The Austraiian Wheat Board, shackled as it often has been by inadequate backing, particularly at the monetary and guarantee level, has done an extraordinarily good trading job over the years despite the disadvantages. The growers had improved their efficiency and our sellers had done a particularly good job when they were able to do so. This occurred against the disadvantages imposed on them and to which 1 have referred. All was going well. 
But then suddenly came the moment of panic which followed an extraordinarily big harvest. I think the moment of panic was recognised by the honourable member for Warringah when he said that the industry had been encouraged to expand. What have we now at present, perhaps 3 years later, after a time of active encouragement? We now have an active period of discouragement following the decisions made in relation to the 1969-70 season. What were the decisions? The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said on many occasions: Of course I issued warnings. Everybody knew in general terms what was going to happen'. I do not want to over-stress what he said or to paraphase it but I think he said on many occasions: 'I warned that we would be unable to take in all of the crop and pay for it in 1969-70 as we had done in the past'. But he had in mind a harvest of something like SOO million bushels, which became eventually 400 million bushels, and the actual harvest amounted to about 340 million bushels. Nevertheless the Commonwealth Government and the Minister, in their wisdom or their panic - and honourable members have a choice - decided that steps should be taken to curb what had been the accepted scheme for a whole generation. In fact growers had already expended money in establishing crops and putting the wheat in the ground. When all this had been done they were told that there would be quotas. 
It has been said that 1 have confused the issue by saying in this House of Representatives that the quotas are  a  matter for the States. I want to sum up the position by saying that the quotas were initiated here and they were implemented in the State*. 
I would repeat that, so that there may be no doubt about the thought that most people have in their minds. 
It has been said that I am wrong. I am amazed. 1 find it rather shocking that people who purport to represent wheat growers should accept a situation which has brought about hardship without one word not only of protest but of suggestion for its amelioration. This is an extraordinary abdication of responsibility on their part. Let us be quite clear. The decision was made by this Government in Canberra, whether it was by the Treasurer of the diem,  Mr McMahon,  or whether it was the Minister for Primary Industry. It does not matter who made the decision. It was made by the central government. It would not go along with what had been done for a generation. It said: 'There will be a ceiling this year. You can do what you like in terms of the ceiling but we are imposing the national quota.' That is what it amounted to and that is how it has been. 
Then it was necessary to implement that decision. I know that a lot of attempts have been made to use growers' organisations as whipping boys for this decision. But the growers were told very clearly by the holder of the purse strings: 'This will have to be done, otherwise there might not be any stabilisation scheme at all'. This financial stick is a big stick. It is the supreme one. Whether the growers' organisations agreed or whether the States fell into line, let me be quite clear and repeat that the central and i 11 i t i al decision was made by the Government here and was agreed to by the States. The scheme was put forward by the Minister for Primary Industry, so he must take the responsibility. I am not saying that he did not do it in good faith. He did it because he felt it had to be done. I am not quarrelling on those issues. But I am saying that this decision was made and we should now look in retrospect at what happened. 
At the time the quotas were introduced an extraordinarily large harvest was feared. It is extraordinary that we had to fear it. but there was this fear. At the time people in public office and government were going to bed at night praying that we would not have a large production so that they would not have the resultant headache. This was an abdication of their responsibilities and also an indication that they had pushed the panic button. I say that now, and I have said it consistently over the whole of the period in which this has been an issue. 1 am saying nothing new at this time, so I am consistent in my submissions on this matter. 
I will be fair now. I thought I was being fair when I said that the decision was obviously made in panic. But let us accept that it was made in good faith. I do not question this. The panic was there, so the Government said: 'We have to do something. This is what we will do: The growers had better fall into line or else. The States had better come into this or else.' So everybody fell into line. Let us go forward from there, accepting that the decision that was made was an error but that it was made in good faith. I would like to enter a plea at this stage that the error be recognised, that we recognise that we did not get 500 million or 400 million bushels. In fact, we may get 340 million bushels. Let us not go back in bitterness over what was done. Let us look now at the present situation and let us see what we can do to ameliorate the effects of a decision made in panic even if it was made in good faith. 
I want to draw attention to what the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture has said about the present situation. If members of the Government who speak on behalf of the Government, and who undoubtedly will follow me, wish to argue these matters I am putting forward, I hope they will also deal with the submissions that were made only recently in the Riverina district by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Crawford.  He said that he recognised that quotas are having a disastrous effect on all sections of the rural community. He went on: 
It is only natural that people and country towns are going to be hurt . . . some severely hurt. 
I respect the sincerity of the Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales, as I respect the sincerity of the Minister for Primary Industry. What the New South Wales Minister said is that the countryside at the present time is suffering from a severe hurt. In the statements he has made he attributes most of that hurt to the wheat quota system. He was questioned by many growers, who said: 'How does this come about? ls the system well founded? Can we accept that what is being done at the present time is the best possible system?'  Mr Crawford  said that the basic blunder of the whole quota system was the original declarations. He agreed that they were ill founded and rotten to the core. This is the measure of the acceptance by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture of the quota system declarations on which the whole of the superstructure of rationing is based in the State in which I happen to live. 
What is the answer to a situation in which thousands of growers and many country towns are suffering from a rationing system which was introduced in the middle of a season? Every aspect of rural life is suffering as a result of this. 1 refer again to the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. He said: 'How does this come about? How could it be that the Commonwealth would do this?' The Commonwealth Government and New South Wales Government are of the same political colour; yet the Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales has said that the reason for the hardship in this scheme which he admits was founded on something that he described as rotten to the core and that the reason is also to be found in the panic with which it was introduced. He said: 
If we had had 12 months to plan the introduction of wheat quotas then everything would have been all right. 
This is not the criticism of the honourable member for Riverina but the criticism by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture, who introduced these quotas, I am sure, with tremendous reluctance. I seem to remember taking part in the debates in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales. 1 seem to remember saying that because there had been this panic, because it was impossible to have an equitable system in the time that had been given following the Federal decision, we should not in fact have had quotas for the 1969-70 season. The Minister in that State stood firmly. He said: 'We must do this. If we do not, the Commonwealth will destroy stabilisation'. This was the full implication of his remarks. 1 accept what has been said by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. After all. he was talking, as a responsible Minister, of the details of a rationing system. He was talking to growers in the towns in the wheat area which had been hard hit. He said: 'Yes, the present system is wrong. lt is not good. I recognise (his. We did not have adequate time in bringing it in'. That is what he said. In this House, in one of those graveyard debates - because after midnight surely that is what they are, and few bodies are alive here at midnight - I have quoted, and 1 repeat it in the context of this debate, a statement by  Mr L.  M. Ridd, a grower member of the Grain Elevators Board, who said that under the present rationing system the growers who are the most dishonest have received the biggest quotas for last season. He tended to support the view of the Minister for Agriculture that what was done in panic must be repented. 
If the problems of the countryside are to be discussed on the basis of personalities, it is rather tragic. I refer the honourable member to the statements that have been made, published and accepted. I would ask him to address him-, self to those statements and to the issues with which they deal. Towards the end of last year T felt a deep and continuing concern that this hastily, ill-advised and inequitable system that hud been introduced would lead to some breakdown in orderly marketing. After all, we are concerned to preserve orderly marketing. Because of my concern I got in touch with the Minister for Primary Industry and with tho Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  I do not want to do any injustice to anyone so this afternoon I will quote from the Treasurer's response to my request that additional money be made available. That is what T asked him to do. I said: "After all, the harvest is going to be below the national quota so let us have some additional finance - not very much finance but some additional finance - 'to take in the whole of the 1969-70 crop, and let us pay the $1.10 for it.' I might say that the Treasurer did not agree, but one thing that he did say was that he had made the money available or, to be more precise, had agreed to the guarantee of finance and this was what he would keep to. 1 refer the House to his reply to me in which he said: 
The Commonwealth has agreed to give practical support to the scheme by guaranteeing finance to be advanced by the Reserve Bank to the Australian Wheat Board to enable the Board to meet its expenses and to pay to growers a first advance of SI. 10 per bushel, less freight. The amounts guaranteed by the Commonwealth for these purposes in recent years have been very substantial.  . . The ceiling of $440m for the 1969-70 pool is a generous one having regard to all the circumstances. It has been exceeded only twice and the funds will be made available at a time when the Wheat Board will still be very heavily indebted in respect of last season's wheat . . . In these circumstances I could not recommend to my colleagues that the agreed proposals for financing the 1969-70 wheat pool should be varied. 
That was signed 'Leslie Bury, Treasurer'. We must accept this. He said: 'I am not willing to make any more money available. I will not make any additional money available'. However, he indicated that he would stand by the arrangements that had already been made regarding the crop. What were the arrangements? The Government made $440m available to pay a first advance on the 1969-70 crop and to meet pool expenses. The marketable crop will not be more than perhaps 345 million bushels. In fact, I doubt whether it will be more than 340 million bushels and the amount of quota wheat is only about 308 million bushels. If the situation remained constant the Government would be able to avoid finding credit with the Reserve Bank to the extent of $53.9m, plus pool expenses of about 17c to 18c a bushel. I know that that figure will be subject to adjustment because an announcement has been made, and I welcome it very warmly, that there will be a payment of perhaps 20% or 40% - it does not seem very clear and I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry might indicate exactly what percentage is going to be paid before the end of this calendar year - on the over quota wheat that has been delivered. Undoubtedly there will be, according to his announcement, some payment there, but my submission was then and is now that in view of the fact that the national allotment of finance and the national shortfall are such that without finding any more money from the Reserve Bank - any more credit, because it is only credit, and I stress that we are talking about credit and not actual funds; not actual taxpayers' money, because Government guarantees are not taxpayers' money- 
That is true, but they very rarely are in respect of primary industry. The taxpayers have done extraordinarily well out of a stabilisation scheme which, on balance, still owes the growers, if we want to express it in these terms, something like $300m. What I was saying was that in view of the fact that there has already been a softening of the Government's attitude in relation to the payments that are to be made for the 1969-70 season - and whether it is to be 20% or 40% I am not clear and I ask the Minister in all sincerity to clarify that point - would it not be reasonable, in view of the crisis in the countryside, to use the credit which the Treasurer has made available to him to pay the $1.10 on the 1969-70 pool and start off afresh? I put that forward as a reasonable way of keeping a great many people in this industry in a viable position. We have said this consistently. 
I know that there have been arguments about what is to be done with State shortfalls and that sort of thing, but when the Minister for Agriculture of the largest State in the Commonwealth points out that because of the inadequacy of the notice - in effect, because of the panic decisions that had been made - he was not able, nor was his government able, to come up with something that was sound, solid and equitable, surely that is a devastating criticism. All right, honourable members opposite can say: 'We acted in good faith and did our best', but is this not the time to clear it up for the 1969-70 season? Honourable members opposite may say: 'We are not going to do this for various reasons that we have in mind'. I am sure that there is a pigeon hole chock full of reasons for not doing anything very much at all. It is the biggest pigeon hole in government. If the Government does not do anything at all and simply says: 'Well, we will take a percentage, but we will let the rest swing' we have to recognise the existence of a black market. I realise that in drawing attention to this I will draw continuing criticism for many reasons, but I put it to the House that a person does not solve a problem by putting his head in the sand and just refusing to recognise it. In relation to the black market I quote from a Press report which appeared yesterday and which stated: 
Black market wheat sales could force oats and barley prices down even lower than they are now  . . Falling export demand has already forced prices to their lowest levels in years. The secretary of the union's grain section,  Mr R.  C. Edwards, said that black market sales had already affected prices in New South Wales. 
The effect of the added hazard of black marketing would be felt when growers found their stocks of oats and barley piling up in the coming months. 

 Mr Peter Bushell, Temora branch manager for the New South Wales Farmers and Graziers Cooperative Co. Ltd, said the low prices for wheat had caused a slump in the coarse grain market with oats bringing only 35c a bushel and barley 45c a bushel. 
Wheat from farmers' stockpiles was being sold at 60c to 70c a bushel compared with the Australian Wheat Board retail price of $1.43 to $1.52. 

 Mr Bushell added: These are the lowest prices in many years.' 
It is no use running away from this problem or saying that it does not exist. It is no use turning our backs on it and saying: 'No, we must not acknowledge this at all'. Whenever I have referred to the volume of trade outside the Board, I have quoted the prices which has been paid already. I have quoted the volume that has been put on the road. 
I find that it is necessary for me to reiterate what I said on a previous occasion. I said that estimates of outside the Board trading had put the figure as high as 50 million bushels. Certainly, it would lie somewhere between 30 million bushels and 50 million bushels. What the figure is, I do not know. I have never claimed to know and I never said so. What I did say was that it was certainly more than had been claimed by some interested members of the Government who had said that it was 6 million bushels. Let us have a little reality about this matter. The volume is there. Because I knew that this debate was coming off, and because I know how important the subject is, I arranged to have an investigation carried out. That investigation was carried out in the hours of darkness over a 72 hour period. In that period- 
I like to have some facts to bring to you,  Mr Minister. 
Well now- 
That is a pretty sad remark for a man who purports to be a representative of a rural community to make - 'how many people did the honourable member report?'. I have made it very clear, when his administration was talking about prosecuting and gaoling people, that I would stand with them. If he finds the same courage he will be worthy of his people. That disposes of it,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I suggest that he goes outside and communes with himself. He has something to answer for. 
That is right. I am going to say this- 
Running away from what? If the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  who is also interjecting, wishes to follow me in this debate and has any particular challenge to issue, I will be delighted to listen to it. I am always delighted to listen. I have listened to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  for some considerable time but I think that he has had his share of attention. I do not mind interjections. 
In relation to this matter I was giving a report of what happened in a 72-hour period in the hours of darkness. The investigation touched on more than a dozen centres in south-west New South Wales. For the very reason that I do not intend that anybody on the Government side should exploit the information, I refuse to identify either the centres or the people. But I am going to say that 22,000 bushels of wheat were moved in that short time. I wonder whether there is anyone prepared to deny that this is a volume of considerable dimension or whether anyone is prepared to deny that this is a matter of considerable concern. 
I put it to this House that this should be the crux of government decision at this time. 
In the countryside at the moment, a great deal of complaint has been made about the state of the rural economy. But the state of the rural economy and, of course, the hardships being suffered are attributable directly to the decisions of government. I am suggesting that the Government can catch up on a decision that was made in error and in panic by doing the one thing that is open to it clearly and simply at this time in relation to the  1969-70  crop. That is to take all the wheat in. I would think that almost all of the wheat is in at this time, but not all of it has been delivered. Quantities of wheat are being held on farms because the mcn concerned are not game to deliver that wheat. These men are not game to deliver because they are not sure what they will get for it. These men are not game to deliver their wheat because they do not know whether they should give it to the Board. If these men do not receive money for what they deliver, they will be out of business. 
Do not blame the wheat grower. Most of the expansion that was undertaken was undertaken in conjunction with banks, stock firms and other people who are in the business of lending money across the nation. They were all part of this expansion. The New South Wales Minister for Agriculture used the term that there were no guilty men among the wheat growers. Well, let me say that if there were no guilty men among the wheat growers we must recognise the fact that whatever operations they undertook they undertook with the support of banking institutions, public and private, and private enterprises which operate to service them with money. 
This is the situation that we face at the present time. I wish to make a plea to the Government. I think that my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who moved his amendment on behalf of the Opposition did so in good faith as a solution to the problem that we face at the present time. I come back to the point in relation to the  1969-70  crop. My plea to the Government is that it should undo the harm that was caused by its panic decision and should put some collateral and some confidence back into the countryside where they are needed at this time. 

 - Mr Speaker, the honourable member for Hume- 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  grossly misrepresented. The honourable member for Hume said in the course of his remarks that I had encouraged wheat selling on the black market or outside the legal system - outside the Australian Wheat Board. I want to say that this is a most grave charge. If one sells wheat outside the law he is liable to a fine or to a gaol sentence, or both. I have never at any time, publicly or privately, suggested to any persons at any place at any time they should sell wheat in contravention of orderly marketing and of the law. The only thing 1 have ever said on this subject is that people have been forced by Government policy to do this. 

 Mr MAISEY (Moore) 8.19] - The Bill before the House is intended to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act in 2 respects; firstly, by throwing a cloak of legality over a scheme already in operation to restrict deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board and secondly, by giving legality to a discretionary power already being exercised by the Board in respect of the price of wheat used within Australia for other than home consumption purposes. The Parliament quite recently dealt with a Bill to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations under a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of wheat from the 1968-69 crop. As that Bill as well as the Bill presently before the House form part of measures to deal with the present plight of the wheat industry and as both can fairly be described as measures designed to alleviate past ministerial mistakes, it is a great pity that they could not have been debated together. This would have permitted a total examination in depth of those mistakes and perhaps some more effective and lasting relief could have been afforded to this important baste industry. 
For the Minister for primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to describe the present proposal of restricted deliveries to (he Australian Wheat Board as 'positive remedial action', and this reaction as 'courageous and responsible' is an assessment of the present crisis which must surely go down in the varied and changing history of this industry as the greatest piece of selfdeception ever perpetrated. The injustices and anomalies flowing from the quota p.'an call for a greater sacrifice from the traditional wheat grower than from the speculator - a greater sacrifice from the grower who over the years has maintained steady and stable production consistent with sound soil conservation practices and has given a handsome premium to tax dodgers, speculators and disenchanted graziers who, while refusing to have anything to do with wool marketing reform, climbed on the wheat industry bandwagon of organised marketing and stabilisation to the extent that that vehicle is now broken and hopelessly bogged down with unmarketable production. 
The need for the Bill to extend the repayment period of loans to the Wheat Board for the purpose of paying a first advance of 110c per bushel on the 1968-69 harvest was a direct result of paying this first advance on a crop of more than SOO million bushels, associated with a downturn in international trade in wheat following the drastic increase in the minimum price of wheat under the International Grains Arrangement. To increase the base price of wheat by the equivalent of US19c per bushel in the light of the then global stock position and crop prospects was an act of irresponsibility equalled only by the refusal of the governments, Federal and State, to come to grips with the crisis now facing the industry. To attempt to sidestep this problem by inviting industrial organisations to deal with it when they have neither the skilled personnel nor the legislative authority to do so is an attitude of weakness inconsistent with every principle of responsible government. The Government, under the former Minister for Primary Industry, Charles Adermann, earned for itself the greatest respect for its willingness at all times to consult with the industry on all matters affecting it and gave the views of the industrial organisations the most careful consideration. Never before has a government said to the industry: 'You provide the answer to a problem of this magnitude and take the responsibility, and we shall legislate'. I make that statement against the background of 15 years association with wheat industry organisation at a national level and 20 years at a State level. 
Let me pause briefly here to furnish the House with details of world wheat stocks and crop prospects for 1967 and 1968 - the time of negotiation of the price structure of the International Grains Arrangement. Wheat stocks in the principal exporting countries at 1st July 1967 were 1,353,600,000 bushels or 36,840,000 metric tons. At 1st July 1968 they were 1,656,000,000 bushels or 42,592,000 metric tons. Stocks of wheat in the. United States at 1st July 1969 were up to 30% on the previous season. They were up by 23% in Canada, and were 16% above the previous record in that country in 1967. Australia's wheat stocks were also more than  2i  times higher than last year's level and nearly twice the figure in 1967. Argentina's wheat stocks were lower by 30%. The estimate of the 1967-68 season's wheat production in the world as at 31st March 1968 was 10,575 million bushels. This excluded production in the Soviet Union and China. World production in 1966-67 was 6,990 million bushels, again excluding China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
The drastic increase of US 19c per bushel under the International Grains Arrangement, which became operative on 1st July 1968, against the background of these known stockpiles of unsold wheat and bumper crop prospects, produced a wave of resentment in consuming countries which reverberated around the world. It also afforded an opportunity for countries with exportable wheat surpluses, not signatories to the International Grains Arrangement or bound by its much higher minimum price provisions, to invade the markets of the traditional exporters at prices below the International Grains Arrangement but above what they would have been able to command prior to the new Arrangement coming into force. It also undoubtedly prejudiced the goodwill of traditional exporters and added to the inducement of importers to become, as far as possible if not entirely, self-sufficient in wheat, no matter at what cost. Is it any wonder that end of season stocks in the 5 major exporting countries or areas - the United States of America, Canada, Australia, Argentina and the European Economic Community - which had fallen under the  old  International Wheat Agreement price structure from 60 million tons in 1958-59 to about 33 million tons in 1965-66 climbed back again to 62 million tons in 1968-69? These 5 exporters were in fact holding stocks at the end of last season well above the level of the year's world trade in wheat. 
Now let us look a little closer home. Let us look at what happened in Australia. Exports of wheat and flour from Australia for the 1966-67 season amounted to 312.4 million bushels. Exports for the season 1967- 68 amounted to only 206.3 million bushels out of a total for marketing of 327.7 million bushels. Export sales for the 1968-69 season showed an improvement on the previous year amounting to about 242 million bushels but still 70 million bushels below the 1966-67 figure. The improved 1968-69 figure reflected the vigorous and aggressive sales tactics being employed by the marketing officers of the Australian Wheat Board and it is not hard to understand their feelings of frustration when, on his return from North America and Canada in early April 1969, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said that those 2 countries had dropped their prices below the minimum under the International Grains Arrangement. He modestly admitted that Australia may be interpreting freight differentials in a way lo give it  a  more competitive price advantage over other exporters. 
In the middle of April 1969 the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  staled, in answer to a question asked in the House, that he did not intend to have Australia even suspected of breaking the rules. In July 1969 he announced that the Wheal Board hud agreed to abate its competitive activities in the international grain market in the interests of the United States and Canada increasing their sales, ls it any wonder that the Australian Wheal Board failed to sell sufficient wheat from the 1968- 69 harvest lo liquidate the overdraft raised from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank in the time limit imposed on the loan? 
During 1968 the problem of negotiating a new and continuing stabilisation and marketing plan was superimposed on the difficul ties being encountered at an international level with the negotiations for a new and continuing International Wheat Agreement. Under the pressure of rising prices and wages behind the protection of a high tariff wall, wheat growers' costs were calculated to have increased by approximately 22c per bushel during the 5 years of the concluding plan. This resulted in heavy calls on the Treasury for price support and embarrassed the Government at 1st December each year by directing the attention of taxpayers and other exporting industries, notably wool, to the degree of failure on the part of the Minister to check inflationary pressure and to protect the legitimate interests of exporting industry. As the internal cost structure rose so did the measure of price support to the wheat industry increase. At the same time costs in the woof industry increased at a similar rate but the price of wool failed lo increase to a commensurate extent and it is not surprising that wherever possible wool growers turned their attention to wheat production and new farmers devoted the whole of their attention to wheat and ignored other cereals and wool. 
As the quantity of wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board increased so did the relativity of the quantity guaranteed under the stabilisation plan diminish. Thus the Government was confronted with a (wo-headed monster by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation when discussions began in earnest at the beginning of 1968 for the new and continuing stabilisation plan. The Federation asked for a more realistic and upward revision of a number of important elements in the industry's cost regimen as welt as an increase in the quantity of the export guarantee to restore the relativity of this most important element of previous plans, lt came as no surprise that the Government started to look around for a way out of this dilemma, and even less surprise that when the trap was finally sei the Federation - with ali the gullibility in the world - walked straight into it. As was the usual custom prior to the renewal of stabilisation plans, Cabinet had authorised the Minister for Primary Industry to direct the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to conduct a survey of the industry's costs. Using the information from this survey and absurdly high valuations of the farms surveyed provided by the Commonwealth Bank valuers, discussions began with the Federation for a new base price. 
The Federation, at the same time, assisted by its economic adviser, had been examining items in the former cost regimen and made representations to the Minister for a review of these items. And so again.  Mr Speaker,  the stage was set to say to the Federation: 'Well, let us take the figures derived from the BAE survey the capital valuations of the farms as supplied by the Commonwealth Bank valuers, your ideas as to what should constitute such imputed items as owners-operators' allowance and deductions for sideline income, together with what you believe should be the yield divisor, and let the Bureau of Agricultural Economics bring up a cost of production price'. The price projected exceeded $2 per bushel, a price the industry had never received, one which no government could ever be expected to cover, even to the tune of 150 million bushels - '.et alone the 200 million bushels the Federation was seeking - and a figure which, if it was a true cost, must have meant that every wheat grower should have been bankrupt. 
The absurdity of the situation thus created knocked the wind out of the Federation, and while it was gasping for breath the Government delivered the king hit by discarding the whole concept of a stabilisation plan based on a cost of production figure, and offered the Federation - on a take it or leave it basis - a plan based on 170c for home consumption wheat and 145c for up to 200 million bushels of exports. The substitute proposal also contained modified provisions for annual movements on the basis of a restricted cost regimen. No useful purpose will be served by traversing the course of the negotiations which followed this offer by the Government, nor anything gained by reviewing the unedifying performance of the Federation at this time. Suffice it to say that the Federation later asked the Minister, and received his acquiescence, to a face saving proposal that it should design a cost formula which added up to 170c. but only on the strict understanding that neither the Minister nor the Department had anything to do with the idea that the cost of producing a bushel of wheat was 170c. 
Obviously the Minister could not agree that it cost 170c to produce a bushel of wheat as the industry, again, had never received this return and yet it had expanded production to the present unmanageable proportions. Furthermore, the Minister could never afford to acknowledge that he had offered the industry a guaranteed return for the 200 million bushels of export wheat at a price which was 25c per bushel below what he agreed was the cost of production. In the meantime negotiations at an international level had proceeded to the point where agreement, subject to normal ratification, had been reached on a base price for wheat which was then calculated to return approximately 140c per bushel f.o.b. Australian ports, or about 5c per bushel below the export guaranteed price of the 200 million bushels covered by the Government offer to the Federation With the export minimum price for Australian wheat artificially set at a level which destroyed its competitive position in world markets, with the home consumption price arbitrarily raised to a record high level and well out of line with the price of other cereal grains, and with enormous carryover stocks on hand and a record acreage being cropped, the Government, with the concurrence of the Federation, had again set the stage for the present farce. 
It was painfully apparent by the second half of 1968 that the industry was heading for real trouble, if not for complete disaster, and grain handling authorities were joining the ranks of the difficult people who had the temerity to question the wisdom of what the growers' experts were recommending. They were asking how they were expected to provide storage for the big harvest forecast when their storages were full of unsold wheat. It was interesting at this time to note that of the 10 growers' representatives sitting around the Australian Wheat Board, 6 were directors of State handling organisations and 1 a chairman of directors, and at that time president of the Federation. It is not hard to understand how the proposal to deal with the mounting crisis offered 100% protection to only one group - the State handling authorities. These 10 grower members of the Board were also the most influential people at the State industrial organisational level and in most instances were serving a number of masters, with the grower in the paddock running a very bad last. This was the situation when the Minister invited the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to submit a proposal to cope with the pending crisis. After some preliminary discussion the Federation finally got down to the business of meeting the Minister's request, and what is now known as the Quota Delivery Plan emerged from the annual meeting of the Federation held in Perth at the middle of March 1969. 
The official reports of the Federation meeting, as well as the statements subsequently issued by the Minister as part of his acceptance of the Federation plan, reveal quite clearly that the proposal was to restrict deliveries and first advance payments on the basis of the average deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board for the years 1963 to 1968 inclusive, rounded to the next million bushels, but to reduce the average entitlement of the Slates of Western Australia. Victoria and South Australia in order that an above-average entitlement could be given to New South Wales and Queensland because of the ability of these latter 2 States to produce what has been described as a readily marketable type of wheat. Quite obviously, if one or more States were to receive more than their contribution to the 5-year average figure, some States must receive less, in the case of Western Australia, ils contribution to the accepted 5-year average figure of almost 357 million bushels was 91.15 million bushels. Yet, to make possible the over-entitlement to New South Wales and Queensland, Western Australia had to accept a base quota delivery an. I first advance payment figure of only 86 million bushels, a loss to Western Australia of over $5. 5m of first advance money in the first year. 
The rank injustice of this proposal becomes immediately apparent when it is recognised that the distribution of a quota within a State is the prerogative of that Stale. If New Sou, h Wales has an ability to produce a readily marketable type of wheat in a part of that Stale then it could allocate as much of its fair Stale entitlement lo growers in thai area as if .saw fit. 'I he same thing is true of Queensland. But it is completely unjust and inequitable to reduce the 5-year entitlement earned by a grower in Western Australia in order that a grower in one part of New South Wales can receive his full 5-year average entitlement and another grower in New South Wales can receive above his 5-vear entitlement as well as a quality premium on his wheat. This grave injustice i.s further aggravated when it is recognised that the better quality wheat grown in New South Wales and Queensland is due entirely lo the type of soil and climatic conditions under which it is grown and in no way reflects a greater efficiency on the part of the grower. In other words, it is a geographic advantage which is being recognised. 
But the Federation steadfastly turned its back on the geographic advantage of Western Australia in respect of its proximity to major markets, particularly China, lt is common knowledge that the Chinese would load most of their ships at Western Australian ports if the Wheat Board would permit them to do so. There are always spec iiic clauses included in every contract made with the Chinese which limit their Western Australian loadings to a fraction of what the Chinese desire. The rank injustice of this quota plan as between State and State as well as between grower and grower within a State could be discussed ad infinitum. The introduction of the quota plan in Western Australia called for a reduction straight across the board of 1 7  In  of a grower's deliveries in the first year of its operation and a further reduction of 20Co on this year's production. The Minister, of course, has foreshadowed another further drastic reduction net year. "I here i.s no equality of sacrifice in this over-simplified method of reducing production between the grower of, say, 10,000 bushels and the grower of 100.000 bushels. The latter will carry on with a minimum of sacrifice and adjustment but the former will in almost every instance have his economic viability destroyed. In any case, he i.s nos the person responsible for creating the present position of over-production. 
The inequity of this over-simplified rule of thumb method of dispensing justice is further highlighted when an examination i.s made of the schedule of deliveries to the Wheat Board since its inception. New South Wales did not deliver over 100 million bushels to the Board prior to 1963-64. the first year on which the 5-year average is calculated. Of all the States which have contributed most to the present cri- is New South Wales is by far the biggest offender. Yet it not only receives a quota based on the best years of its performance out of which this over-production crisis grew, hut it demands and receives a share from he 1 less fortunate Slates as well. An examination of he delivery history of individual growers within a State will reveal the same anomaly. The crisis of over production began after 1.63. yet it is the hig growers who created this crisis who are now receiving the lion's share of a State entitlement. If the quota plan is to prevail then common justice demands that the principle of a minimum wage accorded the worker should be extended to the wheat grower. If the criteria for a right to stay in the wheat industry is simply to be who can produce a bushel of wheat at the lowest cost, then let us go straight out for collective farms on the Russian pattern or communes on the Chinese pattern or huge state farms and be done once and for all with this hypocrisy of pretence for the rights of the common man. For my part let me conclude by stating now in the clearest and most categorical terms that 1 am not prepared to sacrifice one traditional family farm or farmer to make a Roman holiday for a person who speculates in wheat growing during this time of over production. 
I wholeheartedly support the statutory backing which this Bill proposes to give to the equalisation scheme. The equalisation scheme provides a basis for further enterprise by the dairy industry. At the present time there is a suggestion that we consider if not pegging then perhaps a cut-back in production. Tonight I put forward very sincerely some of the suggestions which have been thought about in connection with the development of marketing, particularly the development and maintenance of overseas market outlets for Australian dairy products. Surely there is a need at this time to expand the existing work of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. I heard the terrible tolling of the bell by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  If we are to take him at his word we are all going to vanish in a terrible way in a sea of butter before too long. I thought that his tolling of the bell was most uncalled for. In fact 1 thought that he made a speech which was completely defeatist. I do not share his defeatism at all. What I do put forward on behalf of an industry which not only has dairy farmers but also factory workers and which is the basis of whole town developments is the thought that perhaps there should be further market development. 
I think it is generally recognised that the great difficulty in supplying Asia with a whole range of products is the return which is received for them. The markets in Asia, as I have just said, require a wide range of milk products such as ghee, other concentrated butters, condensed milk, infants' food, and a whole range of food with a protein base. It has been put rather dramatically that Australia should try lo bring the stomachs of Asia closer to the need of Australia to fmd more stomachs. Perhaps that is not a very good way of putting it, but I know the thought behind it. In this connection 1 want to draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to the fact that New Zealand, which I think is the world's biggest butter exporter and the second biggest seller of cheese, has embarked on a course of penetrating the China market. I understand New Zealand has sold about 20,000 tons of butter to China. This is a major figure when one considers that all of our concern at the moment - in fact our panic - is with a possible surplus of between 5,000 tons and 8,000 tons of butter. In this connection there was a most important fair in Canton the other day. According to the information I have it seems that the Australian dairy industry was not represented there. I understand that New Zealand was represented. Surely this is a matter of concern if equalisation is to be used effectively. Australian business and industry generally are showing a lively new interest in the huge markets of China, which has a population many times greater than that of Japan. Whatever the regime in China there is no doubt that there will be a continuing demand in that country for products such as wheat - which this Government has taken great pride in selling to it over a considerable time. 
While we are talking about surpluses, Australia's biggest dairy manufacturer, the Murray Goulburn complex, has been described as screaming out for more raw materials. Again we come to this paradox:  Major manufacturers  who have insatiable markets and are happy to take the material, process it and export it, are doing quite well. I think they made S3m profit last year. At the other end of the scale, the producer is not doing too well. The returns to him are too low to enable him to participate in what is an unlimited market for the future. 
Surely the time has come for us to look at the whole structure of support for the industry, its future and the basis on which it should operate. Irrespective of whether Britain goes into Europe or Europe drowns in its own butter, we will still be in Asia. 
We have a tremendous potential on our own doorstep if we can organise ourselves, our services, exports, prices and returns in a way that will enable us to meet a need and also fulfil our destiny as a food arsenal for South East Asia. Not only should we be exploring what is being done now by New Zealand in China; surely it is time that the Commonwealth made a study of the existing factories and their equipment and the existing basis of payment for supplies so that we can get what is desired for export, so that the grower - the producer in this instance - will receive a return that will keep him in business not only for his sake but as an essential unit in a great export enterprise which could be, as far as I am concerned and as far as many other people with confidence in the future are concerned, quite unlimited, lt seems to me that this is a matter of organisation. I recognise that the organisation would have to be very thorough and would have to operate at all levels of industry and in conjunction wilh industry 
I have put these points forward in relation to this measure for the mature consideration of the Minister and the Government and those concerned with our exports. I do not share the defeatist attitude we heard of tonight from honourable members on the Government side like the honourable member for Macarthur. 
I have done some practical selling and if I have to go back lo that occupation I think I will do it quite successfully. I will take the honourable member for Macarthur with me in the hope that he can put some of his talents to better use on that occasion. I do not share the defeatist attitude he showed this evening. 1 support this Bill. ( ask the Minister and the Government to look at my suggestions for the exploration and investigation of the Asian trade. I put them forward in, 1 hope, a constructive way. 
Friday, 5 June 1970 
In seconding this motion I want to make some points in support of the suspension of the Standing Orders so this matter can be dealt with and cleared up. Quite apart from the confusion which has been allowed to grow up around this matter, and quite apart from the difficulties which surround the industry and divide it on the matter, the producers of the rams themselves are concerned. Because of the complete apathy and lack of action of the Government on this matter the people who have sold rams and the people who have bought them are, it is true, suffering considerable hardship. I can say this with some feeling because 60% of the merino studs are in the Riverina district. This confusion lends weight to the proposal that we put forward. If we are to clear up the confusion it should be done now. After all, what was said earlier has served only to confuse the issue and to confound the entire Parliament, because 56% of the growers, in terms of numbers and organisations, have expressed their opposition to the lifting of the export ban on merino rams. A simple way of cutting the Gordian knot would be to have a referendum. But action has to be taken quickly. There is need to take it now. 
It has been said that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has the most tremendous power. It has been suggested that the farmer bodies in Victoria and New South Wales are simply acting as agents for the Leader of the Opposition. This is a piece of nonsense, though it certainly exalts the status of our illustrious leader. But let us be quite clear that when the industry voted on this matter and thereby expressed its opinion it was not concerned about the Australian Labor Party or the Leader of the Opposition; it was concerned with putting its own convictions forward. Yet it has been suggested in this Parliament, even today, that nobody is in favour of the retention of the export ban except the Australian Labor Party and that the Leader of the Opposition intervened in this matter and made decisions about the rams. These fictions should be cleared up once and for all. 
There is an urgency about the matter, because the industry is divided and the people who produced the rams and the people who bought them in good faith are suffering hardships. Because the Government has postponed a decision we have complete inaction. Debating this matter is one way in which this Parliament can bring about some action and some resolution on it. This is a plea to cut the Gordian knot. I ask that the motion should be agreed to so that this can be done. 
Surely it is not suggested that the Government is so close to the brink of disaster that it fears to fall, to be hoist on the horns of the banned ram. It has been demonstrated both by the moving of this motion and what has preceded it that there is an urgency to resolve this matter. This can be met by the suspension of the Standing Orders. The only reason that the motion could be denied is that the Government feels that it will have more dissidents in the debate or after it than it has now. I suggest that in the interest of the industry and the individuals concerned the Parliament is in duty bound to accept this motion. It has a responsibility. The 2 New South Wales farmer and grazier organisations and the Victorian Farmers Union, claiming to represent 56.6% of the industry have expressed themselves very definitely. The Senate has also expressed itself. The Government has been in defiance of the majority on this matter. It surely has a responsibility to explain itself. It has a responsibility to resolve an impossible situation. Fifty rams are in limbo because the Government cannot make up its mind on what action should be taken. 
This motion which has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr 
Patterson), if carried, will give the Government an opportunity to face up to its responsibilities. Surely the vote on this matter should be a matter of conscience. After all, we are talking about the products of people who have to be considered. We are talking about people who acted in good faith. We are talking about the grower and producer organisations who have said to the Government: 'Will you resolve this matter for us?' The Australian Senate has been quite definite. Simply to shrug this off and say that the whole responsibility for the opposition to the lifting of the ban rests with the Leader of the Oppositon is absurd. The responsibility rests with the Parliament; it rests with the Government. I hope that the Government will not go down before the spectacle, as I said before, of being hoist on the horns of the banned ram. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he has studied - and if not will he study - the action by New Zealand authorities in negotiating successfully for reduced shipping freights for apple and pear exports from that country. Would the Minister take the initiative to secure a reduction of shipping charges covering similar Australian export industries, taking the New Zealand action as a model and aiming at up to a 25% reduction on a range of exports in order to secure markets presently threatened by artificially high freights and to provide opportunities to open new markets, particularly in Asia? 
I want to say one or two things at this stage of the debate on this Bill in order to place on the record the objectives of the Opposition. I refer first to the facts associated with the birth of the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric scheme. This subject has been referred to by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and I want to mention it briefly. Acknowledgement of the inspiration to launch the Snowy Mountains scheme has been made on several occasions by  Sir William  Hudson who was the first Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority.  Sir William  Hudson paid a very warm tribute to a body which has not been mentioned in this debate. I want, to mention it briefly. The body 1 refer to is the Murrumbidgee Valley Water Users Association, lt included men of all parties, lt included men of great vision. It included Australians who deserve a page in the history of the nation and a mention in the records of this Parliament. The Murrumbidgee Valley Water Users Association conceived the idea. They pushed it and fought for it. They look it eventually to a very great- Australian, Joseph Benedict Chifley. He made the key decision which in fact launched this great venture. 
The detail of that history, as I have said just now, has been set forth on many occasions by  Sir William  Hudson. Recently when he was accorded an his retirement :i valedictory by the Mumimbidgee Valley Water Users Association, he paid tribute to the inspiration that came from that valley giving birth to this great scheme. 1 think thai it is regrettable to have the travesties of history that have been attempted tonight. The men who conceived this scheme were great men indeed. They were drawn from a very wide political spectrum. They took the idea to a very great Prime Minister. That was how the decision was made and that was haw the scheme came into being. I might say (hat this and the other amendments are merely attempts by the Opposition at this time to patch up what is regarded as a very unwholesome measure marking the end of one of the greatest national enterprises that we have had. In conclusion I would just say that on the change of Government the amendments we are moving tonight will not be needed because the great authority will be reconstructed as the major water development authority of this nation to take us into the new century. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Canberra has the dearest milk based products, such as milk shakes, in southern Australia. 
Have offers been received to supply Canberra with milk at two cents a point below current prices, and are they associated with offers to build pasteurising and packaging facilities in Canberra itself if desired. 
Will he personally visit the areas concerned in the supply of milk to Canberra to ensure that Canberra residents receive the best consideration by the most efficient producers. 
As I was saying just before the quite pleasant interruption of the sitting, the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been particularly consistent in his approach to the problems of the wool industry. I was referring to the fact that when he was speaking to a meeting of Federal and Queensland Country Party Ministers and members of parliament at Surfers Paradise in February he hinted very strongly that he would press the Commonwealth Government to help the wool industry, and that was interpreted as a move to seek a cost compensation scheme. 
I move from the  Deputy  Prime Minister to the Minister for Primary Industry who, in an address to the Australian Wool Board advisory committee, took quite a different view - at least an apparently different view. 1 do not want to do him any injustice in this respect. If 1 quote the words he used on that occasion, that might suffice to indicate that there seems to be some difference of view. He said: 
Direct subsidies  may  also be looked upon as mere palliatives which treat the symptoms of the problem but not its cause.  1 move from him to the Prime Minister who, at a Press conference in March, said very definitely that a direct subsidy was not the long term solution to the problems oil the wool industry. So, if we sum up the situation and the background against which this Bill comes to the Parliament, we find that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry are at one in being violently against any subsidy for wool, but the  Deputy  Prime Minister is in favour of it. 
But I have nol quite finished the picture. In an answer to a question that I asked in the Parliament the Minister for Primary Industry indicated that he would proceed by administrative measures and not by parliamentary action with the marketing authority. This is regrettable. I understand that the power to do this resides with the Minister, but surely it would have been more desirable to have all of these questions resolved at the one time and in a cohesive and cogent way. If the scheme is to proceed as the Minister has indicated, again there is some regret because there has been very serious questioning of the financial basis of the marketing plan and again most of the questions that have been raised have remained unanswered. This adds to the confusion that exists in the Government at the present time. But perhaps 1 do members of the Government an injustice. Perhaps, in fact, they are merely thinking aloud of what might be done. I hope that the Government comes to a resolution in the interests of this great industry, in the interests of Australia and in the interests of the many growers who are in considerable trouble at the present time. 
On the other han(,  Mr Speaker,  as you have heard tonight from the honourable member for Dawson, who led for the Opposition, we have made quite clear our position as to what we believe can be done to assist the wool industry. The various highlights of the scheme, if I may put it that way, were enunciated. I refer to the statutory authority, the authority to acquire and scientifically to appraise and organise the best selling possible, the reserve price, the fact that unsold wool will be taken over by the authority at flexible prices, and a capital fund backed by the Commonwealth Government and with grower contributions. 1 would hope that this entire new structure that we propose would do more than just those things. 1 would hope that it would give its attention to the fact that, although we are the greatest wool producing nation in the world, we use or process 6% of our own clip and that is all. 1 have talked with the people who are involved in the trade, and they say, with the right sort of climate and with the right sort of encouragement, they could perhaps raise that 6% to 25%. They did not specify over what period, but at least they had their eyes set on doing something more with our own product than is done at the present time. I would hope that not only would farm problems be looked at, as is proposed in the continuing research grants, but that scientific handling would be examined. Marketing, of course, is implicit in our proposal, lt would be drastically re-organised but we would go a step further and have a look at the future of wool processing at all levels in our country. 
I think we have made it quite clear that there is reason and cause for our confusion at this time as to why the measure has come in as it has. We examine it and find that the Bill gives greater power to the Federal Government over research and promotional funds which it contributes for these purposes. So it means in effect that the Commonwealth Government will give some additional money and that it will take some additional money, particularly for its own agencies such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It is a new principle in some ways because the Board previously had the power to make the recommendations on this matter. Now the Government will do it. I think the Minister's words were that the Board would have a meaningful role in determining what would happen to these funds. 
Then we come to the other provision in this Bill which gives the Minister the power to select and nominate the  Chairman  of the Authority. This again is a change. I find it a strange change in a Bill of this nature at this time with all the other great changes that have been projected by the leaders of the Government. I wonder why the change has been made. Does it suggest that  Sir William  Gunn is leaving the Australian Wool Board or that he is staying, or that it is desirable that this position be re-examined? It would seem to indicate that that is so; otherwise what is the point in making the change at this time? Certainly the one thing I find myself completely in agreement about is the need for more basic research, particularly in relation to wool industry problems. I know that the Bill does create an anomaly. What it does is it says that the Commonwealth agencies in future - that is, the CSIRO and BAE - will be able to be allocated their funds by the Government without relying on the allocations or the direct apportionment of the Wool Board. But, of course, State departments and universities will still have to go through that drill. This seems to me to be drawing a distinction, although I realise the Commonwealth has contributed the funds and the Commonwealth is taking the funds; but it does seem to be a somewhat clumsy way of applying funds for research. Perhaps the Minister in his reply, if he makes one, might explain why this is done in that way. 
Certainly in supporting the fact that funds should be made available for research, and more funds are proposed, I would hope not only that consideration might be given to the 2 Commonwealth agencies involved, the State department and the universities, but also that some attention might bc paid to the regional research and extension organisations which have played such a key role in many parts of the country. I might mention some of these organisations. One of them which is not too far from here is the Yass Valley Authority, lt has done some particularly valuable work under its project officer,  Mr David  V. Walters. The Yass Valley Authority for some years now has been investigating a whole series of problems connected with the farms and wool properties which have been in the Yass Valley for nearly 100 years. There are similar bodies to this one. There is the joint Commonwealth State industry organisation in the Murray Valley, which is called the Murray Research and Extension Committee. There is also the Victorian Irrigation Research and Promo:ion Organisation, which also has a vital interest in the problems of the wool industry. Finally, there is the Irrigation Research and Extension Committee which operates in New South Wales and with which 1 had the honour to be associated for some 12 years. These are bodies that operate at a regional level. The Commonwealth Government agencies are represented on them and participate in their activities. The Stale government agencies are represented on them and the industry organisations themselves are represented on them. They are very close to the needs, particularly of the producers. I hope that perhaps consideration might be given under this measure to using the expertise which those bodies have developed at a regional level by supporting the work that they are doing and perhaps by initialing some new lines of study at that level. 
It is undoubted that funds which could be applied to either the Commonwealth or State agencies could flow down to these organisations, but 1 would suggest that a study be made of them because research is necessary at all levels of the industry and in my experience there is no more effective approach to research and extension problems than at the regional level through organisations such as these. 1 would commend the examination of them. In summation, the measure contains, of course, one good point in that it will mean, I hope, additional research work. 
On the subject of wool promotion, I think that at this hour and in this debate the whole ramifications of wool promotion are a little large to tackle but I would say that there arc some very grave reservations held about wool promotion, how it should be tackled and how in fact the funds have been applied. Some very grave comments have been made, particularly within the industry, and it would seem to mc that the time is fast approaching for a reassessment of wool promotion generally. 1 know that there are many efficient operatives in the wool industry, but like every major effort that is made in any situation there is a need to reappraise from time to time and 1 think that the time has come for a reappraisal there. All of these things surely hang together or surely should come together because we have been told, as I say, by the leaders of the Government - the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry - that the indications are that there are great changes under way. I find it puzzling that we have what I describe as a bit measure coming before us at the present time, but it does give us the opportunity to review these problems and to stress them. I join honourable members on all sides of the Parliament in saying that there is an urgent need for remedial action at the grower level at this time. 
I join with the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  in drawing the attention of honourable members to the present problems of the wool growers, particularly the problems dealt with in this Bill. They face great hardship. There is a growing demand throughout the eastern part of Australia - I cannot speak for the west - for some remedial action and there is no doubt that it is required urgently. The Australian Labor Party's programme for the wool industry has been very well set out in the course of this debate by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He spelt out precisely what our proposals are. The honourable member for Corangamite said that he did not offer any firm answers to the problems but he made a plea - I hope I am not misquoting him - that whatever is done with the statutory authority there should also be some private marketing organisation to operate concurrently with that authority. Undoubtedly the honourable member has been applying himself to the problems of the wool industry and that is the contribution and suggestion he has made. 
I have tried very hard to understand how this Bill has come before the House at the present time. It is puzzling to me because it has been indicated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  that major changes in the wool industry are under consideration. Much has been made of the fact that a report of a special committee of the Australian Wool Board is expected. That special committee was set up to make recommendations to the Government in connection with these major changes. I should have thought that it would be logical and proper to wait for that report if there is need for a major change in Government policy on wool and a major reconsideration of the organisation of the industry. It would have been logical to have delayed this Bill and considered everything together. Therefore 1 must admit I am puzzled as to how this Bill comes before us at the present time. 
I have looked into the background of what Government spokesmen have said. The Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry have been consistent on this matter. The consistency of the  Deputy  Prime Minister goes back to, I think, May 1969 when he made a visit to the electorate of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who is to follow me in this debate. I think the  Deputy  Prime Minister made a firm promise on that occasion to support a wool industry subsidy. Nearly a year later, on 4th February 1970, at the Sydney Sheep Show, he said that the Government would give financial aid to the wool industry. It might be just as well to tell honourable members exactly what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said at the Sydney Sheep Show. He said: 
. it is apparent that it producers are to receive reasonable returns for their investment in the industry, we are on the threshold of a period of important change involving the wool industry. 
Again this leads me to wonder why this Bill is merely a fragment of an important change. Later, on 18th February, when speaking to a meeting of Federal and Queensland Country Party Ministers and members of Parliament at Surfers Paradise, the Deputy Prime Minister indicated that he would press the Commonwealth Government to help the wool industry from what he called its present desperate position. 
Sitting suspended from 11.30 p.m. to 12 midnight 
I strongly and sincerely support the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. The amendment does not negate the provisions of the Bill but calls for the setting up of a select committee of the House to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia to formulate gu:delines for any future land settlement scheme. lt is important that this bc done. I make an appeal, in no sense carping criticism of what has gone on in the past but simply as a constructive measure to delineate some of the problems which have emerged after a half century of soldier settlement in Austral'a. for the amendment to be supported. Soldier settlement is not a new proposal. It can be found in the annals of 
Rome where the legions, when they returned and dispersed, were settled both at home and abroad. 
I live in an area which was developed largely after World War L on the basis of soldier settlement. It is an area of development based on irrigation, it provides many lessons as to what can be done to make soldier settlement more effective and more efficient. Some of the concepts thai were adopted after the First World War in the Mumimbidgee area arc concepts that still are worth exploring today. There was the concept of specialised training which was so necessary for the men who were to go onto farms. There was the selection of an elite corps of men who were sent to Californian irrigation areas to learn some of the advanced techniques which we d'd not have in Australia at that lime. They came buck as community leaders and farm leaders. There could be many good lessons to be learned, but there were also many difficulties that arose due to economic conditions and also because it was a great experiment in arid zone development - perhaps the greatest experiment in arid zone development that we have had. Since World War II there has been further settlement of ex-serv cemen in that area and in the south. Perhaps the outstanding example of land settlement in the past 2 decades has been the Coleambally area. I want to make some reference to that development as I feel it offers lessons from which we can all learn. Also it lends support to the idea that we should be having a comprehensive look at what has been done in the past half century. The major problems that have arisen have not been entirely wrapped up in the financial provisions and in the decisions that were made, even as to farm sizes. A lot of the difficulties have arisen just because we did not have the technical know-how and technical services were not available. When wc think back and realise that it is only perhaps in the past 20 years that we have gained knowledge and understand ng of the soil pH we can see how serious errors in assessment of soil suitability could easily have been made. I should like to give an example of this. 
Recently a group of agronomists, field officers and experienced growers of the crops desired looked at 6,000 acres of land that might have been put under intensive culture and irrigation. They gathered and examined the soil type and agreed that this was ideal soil for the purpose in mind. This group said that the soil was suitable and of outstanding quality for this particular intensive culture. Not 20 years ago, in fact not even 10 years ago, the assessments of the technical people concerned on that day, together with the views of the people in the industry, would have been sufficient. Those combined assessments would have sufficed to indicate that this soil should be set aside for the purpose desired. People would have been allocated farms, or they would have drawn farms, in that 6,000 acre parcel of land. In fact, what happened was that the soil was further examined and subjected to chemical analysis particularly. It was found that under intensive culture with irrigation its structure would break down. So had we proceeded with the plans for the development of that land we would have been putting people onto blocks of land that would have failed them. The failure would in this instance not have been due to anything other than lack of technical knowledge of the soil and its reaction to intensive culture. I do not bring this forward to blame anyone but to show that the state of knowledge had advanced to a degree where we were able to see a mistake which we did not make. 
As all of us in this House listened to the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  we must have had some feeling for him inasmuch as he was describing what had happened in human terms as a result of mistakes, some administrative and some technical. I want to draw attention particularly to this sort of error, and I do not do so in any narrow spirit of criticism but to emphasise the need for some overall assessment and an inquiry along the lines we have suggested. Earlier 1 mentioned that probably the most outstanding closer settlement scheme in the whole of the Commonwealth is at Coleambally. Coleambally is rather a big word if one has not beard it before and perhaps it is easier to remember it if one knows that it means 'two swallows on the wing9. This was a scheme devised under the auspices of the New South Wales Government of the time and the Minister for 
Conservation of the time, the honourable A. G. Enitcknap. The scheme was designed to utilise 500,000 acre feet of the 1,200,000 acre feet additional water supplies that would come from the Snowy scheme. The planning of this scheme was carried out by the Blowering committee. This committee was a body that brought together people from various Commonwealth and State departments, the Treasurer, the Reserve Bank and a wide range of technical expertise. This was the planning body for what is today the largest single land settlement scheme in the nation. In terms of farm numbers it is five times the size of the Ord River scheme. Originally the planning envisaged 1,000 new farms - large area farms for rice, wheat and sheep propositions and horticultural farms. The concept was attacked and described as a white elephant, and one public figure referred to it as a new Gallipoli. Despite all the prophets of gloom it has developed in an outstanding way and today the area boasts 250 farms and a new town. In fact, the newest town in the nation has been born at the hands of the Murrumbidgee shire which took over the project initially planned by State authorities. 
Coleambally is moving forward and in that area today one can learn lessons of a technical and administrative nature, lessons that are needed to be learnt about closer settlement. Even today in Canberra there are lessons to be learnt at an exhibition at the Monaro Mall where one can see the story of soldier settlement. A very fine exhibition of soldier settlement products and its epic is on display from the Murrumbidgee. Coleambally has received some soldier settlers. Young men who have returned from Vietnam have settled there. In this regard there are queries which must be posed. The young man who goes to Vietnam and returns is given an indication of his repatriation rights. It is intimated to him that $6,000 closer settlement loans are available. These young men have served and have done the job required of them. They are given certain rights and promised certain privileges. We must see that the promises are kept and the privileges duly accorded. However, when a young man applies as an ex-serviceman from Vietnam to enter the ballot for a Coleambally farm he has to go through a very close examination. He makes a written application and he must have a basic amount  of  money, as well as managerial and farm experience.  His  application is considered by the New South Wales Irrigation Commission and if the applicant measures up to the criteria applied then he may enter the ballot. If he succeeds in the ballot he can be allocated a farm. However, it is only a provisional allocation, and he must appear before a tribunal to substantiate the claims he makes in his application. If he cannot prove his financial position and his possession of plant and equipment and his managerial experience to the satisfaction of the tribunal he loses the farm he hrs drawn in the ballot. I can cite one case which illustrates the difficulty to which I wish to draw attention. This is the case of a young man who had all the necessary qualifications - youth, cash and managerial experience - and who is approved by the State authorities and therefore allocated a farm. He is cross-examined by the State tribunal, which conducts its hearings in a firm and stern way, and his application is confirmed. This man is then able to go to private bodies and obtain plant and equipment. He is able to go to the private banking systems and get some support. He thinks to himself: 'The State Government of New South Wales has approved me, the private instrumentalities have approved me and my application has been confirmed.' He has some equity to offer, although not much, so he thinks surely the Commonwealth Government will play its part. As security is required he offers a mortgage over his plant and equipment and a bill of sale over his farm. He is anxious that the Commonwealth should have its safeguard for the money put forward. However, the conditions of the safeguard are proving too stringent and too hard. The query 1 pose is that if we are going to have resettlement loans administered by the Department of Primary Industry and if we are going to recognise the debt due to the men who have returned, then we have to at least match the State and the private sector with the resettlement loan which the man has been led to expect. 
Therefore, I ask the Minister to examine the cases to see whether the Commonwealth can match the confidence in the young men concerned that has already been shown by the State and also by the private sector. This is just one aspect of the settlement concerned. 
Earlier, 1 mentioned the real problem that arises in relation to technical knowhow. I want to pose another problem as another reason for supporting the amendment proposed by the Opposition and which provides for an inquiry. Not very long ago a parcel of settlement in the Riverina was opened up that was based on sandhills and on the utilisation of well-drained deep sands for citrus production. All the technical know-how pointed to the location of this land being ideal for the recommended purpose, and so people took up these farms and have been established on them now for some time. However, despite the technical know-how that was given to them and despite the best knowledge available, although the trees were planted, grew and looked most luxurious, there was no fruit. So, we have this inexplicable development in the face of all the know-how that we believed we had - know-how which was the basis of recommendations in most cases and which of course influenced the settlement itself. Therefore, we now find that there is a need to look at these people in relation to reconstruction. 
One might ask: Is this not a most wasteful procedure? It is not wasteful at all. After all, the State, which is the public authority in this instance, went ahead in good faith and the farmers entered on the blocks in good faith. Although both parties have done their best, because we have had inadequate know-how there is a need for reconstruction, and I do not think there is any need to apologise for that opinion. The only thing that needs to be done, as the member for Braddon so eloquently :-ai..l, is that we must recognise this fact. I do not see why there should be any difficulty about (hat because, if there is a need to reconstruct, it should be recognised that the reconstruction should be carried out as quickly and efficaciously as possible. 
Dealing with Coleambally again, I point out that the land in this area has been brought into production perhaps mere quickly than land has been brought into production in any other part of Australia. Not too long ago I had the privilege  of.  arranging an inspection by air and land by  Sir John  Crawford, who knows the Mumimbidgee particularly well and who, perhaps has had reason to query some of the claims for development that have been made in the Coleambally area. In fact, what ho found was an extraordinary base of development. He found that new land was being brought into cultivation and production more quickly in this area than in any other area of which he knew, and certainly far more quickly than it was in the older Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. Therefore, lessons can be learnt from this development, and those lessons can be learnt from the problems as well as from the successes. 
Bearing in mind the spirit that dominates us - I hope it still does - in relation to closer settlement, I believe we have no reason to apologise for the fact that we have accepted a dictum which I have found rather quaintly expressed by my good friend  Mr Charles  King, who is chief of agricultural marketing economics in New South Wales and who wrote an outline of closer settlement in that State. According to him, Governor Macquarie - and we go back now to one of the great developers of the then infant nation - judged 'that it was better for the people to be settled on small farms of their own rather than to work for hire on large estates'. Of course, the reign of Macquarie was from 1809 to 1821, and it took much training and agitation to give people in the countryside their independence. They have achieved it, but one may ask whether we have moved forward at all from the point reached all those years ago. We have: The concept of the farm size has had to be re-examined. Of course, it must be reexamined, as has been recognised. I should say that one principle that should be applied and generally accepted is the optimum technology. If this is applied, I believe we can get a sound reconstruction, which is needed in some instances, based only on size. But size is not the only answer. 
I have endeavoured to point out that, in relation to land use, a man can be given 10 times the area he has at present and, if the land use recommended has been wrong, this will only multiple his troubles 10 times. It is not only just a question of size. Sometimes capital also is involved; sometimes a man is affected by matters beyond his control, such as the imposition of wheat quotas; and at other times problems arise associated with the man himself. All of these things mean that, within the concept of closer settlement, a great many variables exist. A great many matters must be given close and specific attention. If this is to be done systematically and properly, I believe we will need the sort of select committee that has been recommended today. After all, we have to find answers to some of the questions. 
I agree entirely that this should not be a witch hunt. I may say also that such a select committee may dispose of some of the economic myths, one of the greatest of which is that the bigger is the best. The position is just not so, and 1 should like to see a select committee appointed so that this particular matter can be brought forward and dealt with on a technical level, far too often in parliamentary debates there is neither the time nor the opportunity to go deeply into some of these questions. If we accept this myth, which I may say has been propagated with great enthusiasm in certain quarters, we will run into the kind of trouble that was run into in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 20 years ago - in fact, it could be 40 years ago-when that country followed exactly the principle that the bigger is the best. Of course, the Russians found that the law of diminishing returns took over at a point which they were not able to establish and which they had not previously established. I am not quite clear, from the technical journals, whether they have reached a final solution now in relation to farm size in the various crops and industries. 
Certainly there is no need for us to approach the appointment of any select committee of inquiry on the basis that we will not need in future closer settlement or occupation of the countryside, nor do we need to abandon the need for further settlement. The only thing I would say is that, in looking to the future, we will have to see the marrying of the concepts of urban decentralisation and rural settlement and development. I believe this will have to come, because at present we often plan in isolation. I make no apology for repeating the term 'economic apartheid' which I have used regularly. I use that term to mean simply that planning for farms is being done in an isolated way. There is a batch of settlements in an area. Perhaps there is the ad hoc development of Sydney or Melbourne in terms of suburbs, but there is no real coherent plan of decentralisation that would involve not only primary but also secondary and tertiary industries. 
I think that planning for the future will have to proceed on this basis so that discussion becomes not a discussion for rural people alone and not a discussion for urban people alone but a discussion for the 2 together, marrying the concepts that we of the Opposition, at any rate, are espousing in terms of planned development for the future. 
An inquiry such as has been suggested would give us the raw material for the decisions that we have to make in this regard. It would enable us to look in depth at the current problems which are facing so many of the soldier settlers due to circumstances, in most cases, far beyond their control, such as governmental and technical decisions.Here we could have a medium whereby we could learn the lessons that have to bc learned and give the assistance necessary for reconstruction which in many cases is urgent. Secondly, the committee of inquiry could examine the whole ramifications of soldier settlement with a view to determining guidelines for future development. If we set up the committee of inquiry as suggested and proceeded on this 2 pronged attack for information and guidance, we could do a great deal to demolish some of the economic myths that are perpetrated at the present time. It could do a great deal to give us the basic raw material for the political and administrative decisions that we will have to make in the future. I hope the Government will give close and sympathetic consideration to this proposal which has been put forward in a most constructive way with only a desire to have the future planned better and to learn from the mistakes of the past. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I express my appreciation to the Prime Minister. Recently, at the request of the shire of Wade which has its headquarters in the town of Griffith where I reside, I circulated a submission to all members of the Ministry and all members of the House of Representatives. The submission by the shires of Carrathool, Leeton, Murrumbidgee and Narrandera as well as Wade dealt with the desired establishment of a university in the Riverina.  I  have had replies from most members of the Ministry, and many members of the Parliament, some helpful, some neutral, some critical but all much appreciated. I have forwarded them all to the shire. On Wednesday I received a copy of a letter dated 5th June addressed by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  to the Wade Shire Council and to 4 other shires in my electorate. The Minister for Repatriation did not reply to my letter or to my representations as did other Ministers and members. Instead he wrote directly, and behind my back, to 5 local government authorities in my electorate. In the first paragraph of that letter the Minister wrote: 
I decided lo send a reply to each shire individually and send a copy of this letter to  Mr Grassby.  I decided to write to your shire direct because, quite frankly, I could not rely on  Mr Grassby  to pass my comments on to you with accuracy. 

 Mr Speaker,  have consulted with veteran parliamentarians and legal authorities and they agree that the Minister's statement is a gross breach of parliamentary ethics and ministerial responsibility and is also a most serious reflection on my personal integrity. I want to say, by way of explanation, that J have never at any time in any place had any personal discussion on dealings with the Minister which could possibly excuse or justify his unethical action. The Minister has never at any time challenged me or queried me in any way in the course of either my parliamentary duties or my personal conduct and I submit that the Minister has been guilty of a serious libel. 
I further submit that he has been guilty of conduct which prejudices the relationships which in a democratic Parliament such as ours must prevail between a member and a Minister. He has, in this instance, broken an important parliamentary tradition - the right of a member to seek and receive from a Minister information on and replies to matters raised on behalf of his constituents. Without excuse he has broken this tradition and made serious, if entirely fictitious, imputations against my personal integrity. I have mentioned to the Minister that I would deal with his conduct in the House. I hope that he will reconsider his unethical lapse and withdraw and apologise. If he acted in an unthinking way, it is forgivable; if he acted under the strain, in his first portfolio, of grappling with the problems of repatriation as a junior Minister, this is understandable. But it would be a challenge to all that is sound and good in our parliamentary tradition of ministerial responsibility to members if he persisted in his gross breach of parliamentary ethics. 
The Minister has failed in this instance, I suggest, to distinguish between his role as a member of a political party and his duties as a Minister of State. This was not a political matter - not a contentious matter - merely the submission by 5 local government bodies for a university. I conclude by saying that I have never at any time in my public career, either in the Parliament of New South Wales or in private bodies or in the national Parliament - had a slur cast on my personal integrity. I submit that if the Minister is honourable, as a member of an honourable House he should accord honour to those who serve in it. 
asked the Minister for Pri  mary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the final figures of the per bushel payments to wheat growers from the 1967-68 and 1968- 69 wheat pools. 
What are the estimated final figures for the 1969- 70 pool. 
When will further payments be made to growers above the $1.10 first advance from the 1969-70 pool. 
What are the charges against the 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70 wheat pools, actual or estimated, for (a) interest, (b) storage and (c) handling and other charges. 
1 support the motion moved by the Opposition to direct the attention of the Parliament to the problems of the countryside. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  put the facts and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said: We know them.' The Opposition then asked for further action and the Minister for Primary Industry said: 'We have done a great deal.' To illustrate the achievements of the Government and himself in the discharge of his duties he said: 'Look at what we have done with dairying. Look at our achievement there. Look at the progress we have made in reaching towards and achieving reconstruction.' That is an incredibly different story from the one that was put forward by the Minister for Lands in the Liberal-Country Party administration in New South Wales who, 1 might say. did not appreciate the reference by the Commonwealth Minister to the dairy industry being in absolute chaos, which the Minister for Primary Industry put down to gutless State politicians. In rebutting that, the Minister for Lands in New South Wales said: 
. if the Commonwealth had agreed, as had been suggested on several occasions, that the Ministers concerned - Commonwealth and State - should meet to discuss this matter, I feel it could have been resolved many months ago. However, the Commonwealth apparently has nol the courage or the good sense to agree to such a meeting. In fact,  Mr Anthony,  either because of ignorance or rudeness, has ignored the Ministers in each Slate responsible for reconstruction schemes and keeps contacting . . . the wrong Ministers. This is a rebuttal of the claim thai there has been a great deal of progress on the part of the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry in that one section to which the Minister specifically referred. 
Confronted with a depression in the countryside, and with the situation worsening daily, the Government came to the Parliament last night and told us, through the Treasurer: 
The farm outlook is not encouraging but we can reasonably expect a good rise in non-farm productivity . . . Our external outlook is promising. 
So much for the problems of the countryside. They are dismissed in a single sentence and the nation is told in the next sentence that we are not to worry too much because everything else is really all right. One half of the countryside is in a state of depression because of drought and the other half because of the Government's disastrous policies on primary products. It is through scandalous incompetence that sheep are dying in the drought areas of Queensland and New South Wales for lack of feed while wheat is being left in temporary storages and in many cases providing a monumental feast for mice and weevils. Surely the Federal Government can use some of its technologies and sophisticated know-how to get to grips with the problems instead of saying that it will through the ludicrous and lengthy procedure of giving money to the States, which will give money to an agency, which will lend money to the farmer - who cannot afford any more loans - to buy wheat which is under the Commonwealth's control. This chain of bureaucracy causes tragic delays, means that money is eaten up in administrative procedures and the farmer is loaded with more d:bts, when all he wants in many cases is access to grain to feed stock. Surely to goodness we have enough know-how to break this chain and cycle of democracy and get the job done. 
Yes. I do not really think it is democracy. I apologise for my slip of the tongue. I do not think it is beyond the democratic processes of the Government to break what I have just described as a meaningless chain of bureaucracy. After all, how can the Government claim to be helping drought areas when the need is for feed wheat and when feed wheat is available at prices higher than those we charge China? This is just not sound, it is not good and it is not just. The drought in some areas is the worst on record. It is worse than in 1965. But the financial position of the countryside is much worse. At the present moment, of course, we have a compounding of all the problems. We have drought and we have policies touching on wheat and wool. The Minister went on to defend his decision and the decision of his Government to introduce restrictions on wheat in the middle of a season. 
I do not, and the honourable member should know that by the record in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales. The Minister brought in restrictions, 1 might say, based on a national wheat ration which we did not meet. Then he refused to take in what was available. He refused to face the facts of blackmarket trading and still does not face them to this day. In doing this, of course, he opened a market at 60c, and this dragged down the price of every grain. Today that market is rising to 80c, which is an indication of need and demand. 
The honourable member should just be careful. After all, I can say a few words about who will report whom for what. One of the things I think we ought to do in relation to wheat is to say quite bluntly and definitely that it is no credit to the Government that unpaid for wheat is being eaten by mice and weevils in major and temporary storages. It is there despite the fact that we did not reach our national quota last season. We will not meet it next season. But there is wheat there at the present time. If we take the Government's word that the surpluses are tremendous then surely to goodness the one thing the Minister ought to do - I talk to the Minister particularly - is to bring the feed wheat to the stomachs of the stock that need it. That should not be beyond our ability at this time. When we turn to the future, if he is asking me whether we should have an orderly development of the wheat industry, my answer is yes, but it should not be based on panic decisions which are made at the last moment in the middle of a season, and it should not result in bringing in a system such as the one in New South Wales which the New South Wales Minister admitted to a meeting of 300 growers was rotten to the core because of the haste in which it was conceived and implemented. 
The situation in relation to wool is extraordinary. We have wool and everyone has said it is still in great demand. After months of waiting a handout is being proposed which will average out at between $200 and S300 per head, which is not enough to feed the chooks on a good size property. If this is the solution to the problems of the wool industry I would suggest it would be rejected by the majority of the people in the wool industry. The wool grower has not asked for handouts. He has not asked for anybody's charity. What growers have asked for unanimously - I say it has been asked for unanimously by the rank and file, and I stand to be corrected on it - is a proper marketing system, a just price and an end to the exploitation of his product to enrich others at his expense. 
Our policy has been clearly spelt out in relation to wool. The honourable member who just interjected made one contribution to the wheat debate in which he advocated that people who had been to see Federal members of Parliament about problems of selling over quota wheat should be reported to the authorities. He should be thoroughly ashamed of himself. Let us have a look at the situation today in relation to wool. The Government promised urgent action back in 
April. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  indicated this. What have we got? We have in fact no firm proposal before the Parliament now. We have in fact, apparently, a deaf ear to what the woo! growers have put up through their organisations and through major meetings. They have said that they want a change, a reformation, in the marketing system. In his reply on an urgent matter the Minister made no reference, no commitment, to it at all. Yet he comes here regularly and tells us: 'Whatever the industry wants we shall do.' We are waiting. Our policies are clear. They have been spelt out and I know the Minister has had the privilege of reading them in detail. 1 wanted to draw attention to the fact, in relation to wheat particularly, that because of the circumstances of the introduction of quotas last season we have a moral duty now to take in and to pay $1.10 first advance on all wheat that has been either delivered or is awaiting delivery. That should be done. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  who is not known for his generosity, at least has made sufficient money available to do this. There should be a tearing up at the present time of the bits of paper which say that people should be restricted this year when in fact the Minister has admitted that we have a roaring drought in most of the country. So those who are able surely to goodness should be permitted to grow and deliver with confidence and be paid. The 2 great needs of the countryside today are collateral and confidence. The Government could easily give the confidence by making firm decisions in relation to 2 matters alone, f will not comment on the dairy industry.  Mr Lewis  in New South Wales put that to the Minister and the Minister may reply to him directly. The Government could deal with wheat in a courageous way. It could deal with the drought by breaking the cycle of bureaucracy to which I have referred and it could take its decisions to the wool industry by reforming it now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon  notice: 
Has his Department drawn up an overall plan for Australian development. 
If so, will he table the plan in the House and arrange time for it to be debated. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What was the (a) quantity, (b) value and (c) country of origin of oil imported into Australia for refining in each of the last 3 years. 
What are the names of the importers. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, up'on notice: 
Was an offer made to (be Australian Broadcasting Commission to share satellite facilities with Japan to enable the televising of World Cup soccer matches. 
Was this offer refused; if so, why. 
Can he say whether She decision not to televise any of the soccer world cup games caused disappointment to many Australians and to large numbers of British and European migrants. 
I wish to oppose the proposal to reduce the size of the quorum. I do so for the very sound and good reason that if we have a Parliament and a place of national debate we should spend as much time as we possibly can in that Parliament participating in the debates of the nation.I know that we cannot do that all the time.I think that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  spelt out the difficulties. ButI would agree entirely with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  that it would be to denigrate the institution to say that it is not really necessary to bother about that matter very much. After all, this is what we are saying. 
I agree with my good friend from Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  that there are difficulties confronting the member of the Australian Parliament.I agree with him entirely that the British concept of the gentleman versus the players has no place in the sophisticated modern society of 1970. It is not good enough to be just a player, and a part time one at that. What it is necessary to do Ls to be fulltime, to be skilled and to be a specialist as far as it is possible to become just that. 
Having said that, I would suggest that here is a place where not only great decisions are made. A tremendous deal of data and information is available. A member, I submit, can get that data and information in the way that it is of best use to him only by being here. Tonight I came into the chamber at 8 o'clock to listen to a long detailed statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  It could be said that I did not really need to be here at 8 o'clock because I have before me a 27 page document which I will be able to peruse to catch up on just what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said. But that is not quite good enough, because one gets the emphasis from the man himself. This document is at best second hand. 
The other point that I wish to make concerns what may happen here. I think someone said earlier today that anything can happen in the Parliament. It is a very unpredictable place. This is how it ought to be. It should not be staid and dead; it should be alive and lively. What happened following the statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister? We heard a reply by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Now, at that stage, it was not clear as to what would happen from then on. It was not clear as to whether, for example, I would have the opportunity to say something on behalf of communities which are threatened. I came in here because there was that offchance and that possibility. If I had lost that opportunity I would not have been doing my job either as a member of this national Parliament or as a member representing the particular communities that 1 have the privilege to represent here. 
So it is important to spend as much time here as we can. We can learn greatly. We can participate more. If it is suggested that 22 people can manage the affairs of the chamber, that it is to become a form of ritualism to observe the present quorum requirement, I suggest that the institution needs completely overhauling. My good friend, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  has referred to the committee system.I may say that I am a fervent supporter of this system. I believe that the time when we should have it is overdue. I think that those of us who at least have a taste and a zeal for reform would all like to see that system introduced as quickly as it possibly can be introduced. I believe this very sincerely and passionately. This does not mean that because we have our committees we have our places of special debate; surely it does not mean that the greater debates of the Parliament can be left, can be ignored and denigrated. 1 submit that this is what this recommendation will do. There is a point- 
MrHurford - Nonsense! There are 22 members in here now. 
That is quite true. The honourable member for Adelaide says: Nonsense! There are 22 members in here now.' That is quite right. What it is proposed to do is to reduce the number required for a quorum and so to cut back the importance of being here at all. We will find a smaller and smaller number of members here. The honourable member for Franklin showed great courage when he said that he could make a good speech addressing you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have a great deal of respect for you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I would not like to feel that you were the only one to whom 1 was talking. 
I think that that could be the end result. That was a very pertinent interjection. It may be said: 'We can cut the number required to form a quorum to 22. Maybe we can manage with 10. Perhaps we could just all write in.' We could have then a Parliament by correspondence. That is an interesting thought. ButI wish to reject it. I believe that we should have far less ritualism in the Parliament and that far more attention should be paid to the debates in which we must take part and to which we should apply ourselves. 
I wish to make another point. I will make it very bluntly in this wonderful ecumenical atmosphere where we all can disagree magnificently on this occasion without any particular binding. I say that, by this proposal, we will encourage the laziest possible government by making it possible for the Government to say: 'Well, we will leave a few fellows there. We have reduced the quorum required. We can reduce it further a little later on. We will not worry too much about it.' So again the institution of Parliament is being denigrated. We are opening the door further for lazy government.I know that some of my colleagues will say: 'What on earth did you say that for? We will be forming the Government next year.' It may well be- 
It could be earlier, as as the Attorney-General has said, particularly when we recall the way in which the Attorney-General has been carrying on. 
It could well be. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the point that I was making was that this measure will open the door a little wider to greater government by the Executive and in fact will lead to lazier government. If the events of which we have spoken come about and the Government changes, I think the same principle applies. Surely to goodness today we are looking at the institution as the institution of Parliament now and henceforth -and we are not looking at it on the basis that we have had a Government of a certain political persuasion for 20 years, that that Government could change in the morning, and that, therefore, we should relate our attitude to the institution to that fact. I do not think that we ought to do that. I do not think that, in this debate, we should do that at all. I am suggesting that we should upgrade the participation of the members of this Parliament in the affairs of the Parliament itself. 
It has been suggested that if people are engaged in this chamber they will not have time to participate in the committees which I wish to see established. I do not believe that that will happen at all. We have to be here and, on the major issues, I think we should be here. I have a personal regret that in fact more opportunity has not been available for me to be in the chamber and that there has not been more opportunity for me to speak here. I know it has been said that I have had adequate opportunities to speak. This may well be so. The maximum opportunity should be made available for every honourable member to participate in the affairs of the nation through this forum. 1 want to see extended facilities. 1 do not want to see a contraction of the affairs of this chamber. 1 recognise that there are great disadvantages in the way we work now. The honourable member for Franklin pointed them out rather dramatically. He said that we have to inform ourselves in a detailed way on all sorts of subjects, that we have to apply ourselves to research and that we have to deal with electorate correspondence. We have to deal with one thousand and one personal problems. We all have to do this. We find the task increasingly difficult. I recognise this. But the answer to the problem is not to say: 'Do not come to Parliament'. The answer to the problem is that every legislator in this nation needs an upgrading of his facilities so that he may do a better job. This is very much overdue. It does not mean just a desk and a more comfortable seat here so that we can do some work. The need is to assess our role as members of Parliament. First of all, we are servants of our own people in .our own electorates. They have to be dealt with, cherished and serviced. That is basic. Then one has some time over to play one's part in the ritual of Parliament. A great deal of ritual is about Parliament - far too much. 
I agree. But you do not change it by not coming here and requiring honourable members to be here. It is my ambition to see 'better facilities provided in this House. With better facilities we would be better members, because we would not have to tolerate some of the nonsense that goes on. We would be more impatient and more critical. I make a plea for this to be done. The standard of debate in the greatest forum of the nation will not be upgraded by leaving it and saying Mt is a dull old place'. I submit, with the greatest respect, that there is a tremendous need to improve the status of Parliament as a national forum. This will not be done by accepting this proposition to reduce the quorum. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has a whimsical turn &lt;tf phrase which I always enjoy. As a matter of fact he is one of the reasons why I do not want the quorum reduced. We should all have the opportunity to hear him. This Parliament will be like a dying dinosaur if we denigrate it any further. I appeal to honourable members not to do it. Do not cut the quorum. Leave it as it is. If we are to have reform let us have a reform of facilities and lei us even double the quorum. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Are procedures covering the arrival of passengers at the new international terminal at Sydney causing some confusion. 
Is there any lack of liaison between Customs and airline officials which has resulted in arriving passengers missing families and friends waiting to meet them. 
Will the Minister investigate arrival procedures with a view to eliminating any confusion which presently exists and ensure that persons arriving from overseas receive the best possible first impression of Australia. 
Does the Prime Minister recall telling the House on 8th April, in answer to a question 1 posed to him, that proper assistance and not just a palliative to the wool industry had a high priority with the Government? Did he subsequently describe the industry as being in a horrible condition? Is he aware that deferment of essential reformation of wool industry marketing could mean projected export losses to Australia totalling $350m in the 1970-71 season? Can the Prime Minister reconcile his own statements and the projected losses to the nation and the growers with the deferment implied, by both the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry, of any urgent action to put wool marketing on a reformed basis and the substitution instead of an anomalous handout? Does this represent a victory for foreign buyers and their local representatives inside and outside Parliament? Will he intervene immediately either to put a national buyer in the field as an interim measure or to establish forthwith the authority sought by the growers in the industry? 
Five years ago when I rose for the first time in the mother Parliament of our Australian Commonwealth it was against a background of difficulties for rural Australia caused by drought. Despite the drought and the difficulties, there was then no lack of confidence in the future. There was in fact a desire everywhere to push ahead with rural development and to improve rural productivity. There was no serious doubt that when the drought broke the sun would shine again on rural Australia. But as I rise today in the Commonwealth Parliament to debate the affairs of the nation 
I find the scene has changed quite dramatically. There is a new drought holding the countryside in its grip - a drought of money and a drought of confidence. Just the other day 600 people representing the 75,000 people of the Lachlan Valley gathered to urge the Commonwealth to take steps to end the economic depression in the countryside. There was no doubt there as to what was needed and the Mayor of Parkes said: 
All that is required is a will to win and clear leadership with a positive determination to find an answer. 
But rural Australia today faces a crisis that has implications going far beyond the confines of the farm or the country community. The crisis has brought the nation to the crossroads of its own future. We are already the most urban nation on earth. We have already retreated, in terms of our population, to the south east corner of the continent. We are confronted with a clear choice. If the crisis in the countryside goes unresolved and if the family farm is abandoned, and with it many rural communities, we will create a vacuum in the countryside. Nature abhors a vacuum. International interests are ready and willing to take over the abandoned countryside. We have already seen it become an international fashion for overseas millionaires and interests to buy a bit of Australia. 
Today we have the spectacle of our biggest landowner, with 1 1 million acres, living and operating from Los Angeles in the United States of America. The trend to sell Australia was never better illustrated than by the sale of the most famous single property, the Elsey cattle station which was featured in the classic novel 'We of the Never Never'. Today it is owned by a syndicate which includes Hong Kong interests. So we have the tragic paradox of Australian farmers facing dispossession by forces generated by Government policies. I am firmly dedicated to the proposition that to develop our country we do not have to give it away. If there is any doubt in this Parliament about the dangers of this policy of selling the country, let those honourable members listen to the words of the former Lord Mayor of London.  Sir Denys  Lowson, who heads Australian Estates, an overseas company which owns about 5 million acres of Australia. In a moment of generous candour he said: 
Don't give too much of your resources to anyone, the British or anyone else. Accept money for investment by all means but retain control. Australians today are subsidising the British Treasury. The British Treasury gets a cash surcharge on Australian development. 
To those who would condone the sale of Australian land and water resources to outside interests I commend a study of foreign ownership of the national resources in many of the  21  nations of South America. There one finds entire nations in economic bondage. Some gave up control of their future for a temporary capital inflow. They have paid the price for their economic independence. 
In North America the Canadians have some experience of this sell-out of their country. Sixty per cent of Canadian secondary industry and two-thirds of Canadian primary resource industries are controlled by foreigners. Canada has lost the" power to control the rate of inflation and the level of employment. United States prices roll across the border and United States economic worries come with them. The situation has led to the interesting suggestion that an income tax surtax should be instituted in Canada to build up a fund to buy back Canada. These are the lessons to be learned from beyond our shores, while at home foreign buyers in some localities are taking advantage of the rural depression to offer  $37  for land which was worth  $120  only a short time ago. The crisis in the countryside is just as much the concern of our city population. If overseas takeovers of Australian food processing industries and farming land continues then the cost of living in. Australian cities could double. The farmer and the city housewife are being exploited with fine impartiality. The housewife pays more for bread and the farmer receives less for wheat; the city consumer pays more for wool and the grower receives less. It is against the best interests of the nation to abandon the daily bread of the family to foreign control and to leave the housewife at the mercy of foreign faceless corporations. 
This is the background of the Budget. And what did the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  say in the Budget about this crisis in the countryside? He said: 
The farm outlook is not encouraging. 
The only concrete proposal was a handout to wool growers which was later explained by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Anthony) and which emerges as one of the most inadequate, hopelessly ineffective gestures that could have been conceived. It is no substitute for a proper price for the product. This is the high urgency of the Government on the crisis in the countryside - a single sentence, an anomalous handout and a promise to give some thought to the problems. 
The Budget was a slap in the face to rural Australia but its defence by Government supporters is strong and consistent. With one honourable exception, the Treasurer's sycophants kissed the hands that introduced a wheat rationing scheme that has been described as 'rotten to the core'; the hands that betrayed wool growers to the exploitation of foreign buyers; the hands that imposed on the one primary industry not in trouble a damaging tax, the wine tax. There is no sense of urgency from the Minister for Primary Industry. There is more rural poverty in his own electorate than in any other area in Australia and his solution is to encourage his own people to get out. This is a striking demonstration of political cannibalism. There is no sense of urgency from the honourable members on the Government side who represent what has been called the 'heart break corner' of Queensland. James Cunningham wrote: 
It is a chilling experience to watch a country waste and die. The  desolution  of men's spirits dried by the crippling drought which has gone on for years is reflected wherever one goes in this immense country. 
Then he quoted a grazier who asked: 'How am I going to carry on?', and Cunningham wrote: 
The only answer was the hiss of the dust blowing in the wind. 
But what was the answer by the Government? What was the answer by Government supporters? They too just hissed in the wind. They blamed everyone but themselves. They blamed the British for applying to join the European Economic Community, they blamed Europe for its trading; they blamed the Opposition. Yet they have been in undisputed power for  21  years. They have dictated every policy, every decision, and their answer to the worst crisis in the countryside in  2  generations is to put a tax on wine, and hit the one primary industry not in trouble. They are going to collect more in tax than the growers will receive for their grapes. Yet they leave Australia's doors wide open to a flood of foreign wines and spirits. They hit our home industry and permit foreign industry to make further inroads. This is the pattern of their concern. 
Hundreds of acres of potatoes have been plowed in and the Government allows hundreds of pounds of North American potatoes to flood in. We have a rice industry exporting 80 per cent of the production with no Government support in the face of world competition and the Government leaves the doors open to quarantinedoubtful foreign rice. Foreign cheese floods the market; yet the Government tells dairymen: 'You produce too much' This is the measure of care, the measure of concern. And to complete the picture of rural betrayal is the Government's refusal to take action which would nave prevented the loss of 8 million sheep to Queensland. 
While the Minister preaches wheat surpluses he denies wheat to starving stock; while the Minister preaches and practises wheat rationing he did not even have the courage to take the money made available by the Treasurer and pay for all the 1969-70 crop. We did not meet the national ration last season and we will not this year but we have a small army of officials running around with bits of paper which say: 'Cut back production'. In the last couple of weeks Australia has sold 9 million bushels of wheat, apart from the major sales to Egypt. By 30th November our wheat stocks could be down to 250 million or 270 million bushels. With a harvest failure in many locations it has been estimated that we could be down to a carryover of 85 million bushels in 1972 - not enough to ensure our own position against drought, let alone maintain supplies for our customers abroad. Yet against this dramatic change in the situation, this Government still talks rationing of reduced production this year and refuses to pay for wheat that was planted last season before it brought in its rationing system. 
The Government's incredible inaction over wool completes the indictment. It has stood by idly while prices have dropped 40 per cent in 12 months. It has stood by while the whole industry cried for marketing reform. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in replying to me the other day set his high seal on the betrayal. He said, in effect, that it would be impetuous to do anything at this time. Contrast this Government betrayal with the firm program and commitment by the Opposition. 
Our 11 point wool reformation plans to establish a statutory authority are clear and definite. Our action on wheat will take m and pay for wheat last season within the national ration. We will establish strategic national drought storages. We will bring local government to the national revenue distribution and the Australian Loan Council. 
The Government compounded its betrayal of the nation in this Budget by ignoring the crisis in local government. For instance Cobar Council has $356,000 outstanding in rates and charges. It began this year with a deficit budget of $82,000 and had to add $12,000 for fighting 2 bush fires. Some of the ratepayers have not paid tax for 7 years, and have not paid rates for 6 years. Many shires face disaster but their plight was ignored  in  the Budget, ignored by the Government and, more tragically, ignored by nearly every Government supporter but one who acknowledged rates have risen 840 per cent since 1.947 and who expressed his disappointment with the Budget. It seems that the Government is preparing Australia to accept a permanent depression in the countryside. The grand alibi has already been prepared. And it was designed and unveiled by the veteran giant of government, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen).  With consummate skill he set the scene for the Budget, and for the permanent depression to which reference has been made. Firstly, he made his last grand tour as the  Deputy  Prime Minister; then he fired his preliminary salvos in the capitals of the world. Finally came the moment in the Parliament of the nation when he unveiled the grand alibi for all the drift and bad policy which have brought rural Australia to  Ms knees.  What was the alibi? It was entry of Britain into Europe. 
In his statement the Deputy Prime Minister took on the role of the Gloomy Dean and unfolded his gloomy assessment of what confronts us. His only 2 remedies were to tell Britain that Australia expected Britain to put Australia's interests to the fore because of 'our historical association with Britain in all fields'. Coupled with this touching faith was the other answer he put forward. He said: 
Any stand Australia takes must be on the ground of impairment or threatened impairment of our rights under GATT. 
So he predicts disaster and says the answer is to rely on sweet charity in London and the uncertain mercy of GATT. He made the same speech of gloom nearly 10 years ago and in all that time there has been apparently nothing learned, nothing forgotten. There is no doubt that at one time for Britain to sever her traditional trade links and enter Europe would have been a disaster. But for some time Australia has been moving away from the economic colonialism in which the nation was born. 
It is true that if we sit down and lament and fail to act until Britain does enter Europe, there will be inimical effects on our sales of wheat, dairy products, canned and fresh fruit, sugar, meat, dried fruits and jams. It is true that if we take no action the very survival of towns such as Griffith, Leeton, Mildura and Shepparton could be threatened. It is also true that if we take no action then $400m worth of Australian sales might be affected. The  Deputy  Prime Minister himself says we can face serious economic and social difficulties. But what is the reply by the  Deputy  Prime Minister in his role as the Gloomy Dean to the disaster he sees on the horizon? I repeat that his answer is reliance on sweet charity in London and uncertain mercy from GATT. 
It is evident that the crisis in the Australian countryside will be blamed on European Economic Community, blamed on the callous British and blamed on the tendency of the world to divide into trading blocs. So, says the  Deputy  Prime Minister, let us attack this trade bloc concept, and let us go to GATT. We are going to put our trust in GATT, we are going to put the future of the Australian towns and cities I have mentioned in the lap of GATT. We are going to GATT with 70 per cent of our butter, 60 per cent of our canned fruit, one third of our fresh fruit sales and a third of our dried fruit sales. 
The Gloomy Dean preached the same story, as I said, 10 years ago - perhaps the British will not be admitted, but if they are, let us hope that somebody somewhere will look after us. Ten years ago he pinned his faith completely on London; now he shifts with touching faith and confidence to GATT. I reject the gloom; I reject the dictum of inevitable diasaster, I reject the surrender of the future of our inland towns and cities, and, in the final analysis I reject the grand alibi being created now as an excuse for bad policy. 
I believe we should be realistic, tough and confident. Above all, I think we should accept the inevitability of Britain's entry into Europe. Britain has to go somewhere because she is in between 2 giants - North America and Europe. She must join one or the other or make an accommodation with them. So we must act to stop the predicted disaster and seek a substitute for the formula simply to rely on GATT. 
I do. I recall that GATT was invoked to rob us of the fruits of our commercial enterprise in building a canned fruits market in Germany. GATT has never held open the door of US markets for our mutton and lamb, and GATT has never been invoked when the US has used quarantine as an excuse to satisfy her own domestic beef lobbies. By all means let us go to GATT, but let us also take independent action now to secure long term coverage for our own products and our own industries. 
This is the realism to which I referred. The toughness has now to come. We do 40 per cent of our overseas shopping in Britain and Europe and 30 per cent of it with the USA. Under the present arrangements we enjoy concessions in Britain which we more than match. The value of what we give in concessions and in trade advantages to Britain I would put at not less than $200m. These preferences I submit are now negotiable. The volume of trade runs in Britain's favour. 
In 1969-70 we sold $492m worth of products to Britain but bought 55846m worth, plus preference to British goods, British shipping, British insurance and British banks. In hard cash alone there is a balance of $354m running against us, or running for us, depending on which way one looks at it. And in return for all this, we have sales of $30m worth of butter, $40m worth of wheat, $40m worth of sugar, $25m worth of canned fruits, $12m worth of fresh fruits, $7m worth of dried fruits and $4m worth of coarse grains. That is our shopping list. 
They are official figures. It has been submitted that all the imbalance is acceptable because of desired capital inflow, but this is rubbish. The United Kingdom, United States, European and Asian capital has and will come because Australia gives a good return. It has given a good deal. The preferences just do not balance. Today they must be regarded as a negotiable asset by Australia. But once Britain goes in the preferences lose much of their negotiability. So the tough dealing must come now. We must use these British preferences to negotiate long term agreements covering access to sure markets by people who will take the products we have available in exchange for those that they have to offer. In other words, it has to be mutual reciprocity in trade. We are in a strong position and we have only to cover the export of some $158m worth of products now being sent to Britain. But we are buying two for one in that market. We are giving $200m in preferences; and there is $354m in a trade margin to cover this sum total of the products in trouble. That is the first step to avert disaster. 
The second step is to devise a new fabric of trade. We must recognise that our future as a nation lies in our own region in the world. We will soon have 200 million people in our own region, and between us some of the richest lands and resources on earth. So while we trade preferences and markets with the major sophisticated nations of the world, we should be acting as a catalyst for progress in our own region and this means new forms of trading and, in fact, new products with which to trade. 
We must reappraise our trade with USA which today sells us nearly $ 1000m worth of products while we can only gain entry into that country for half that amount. We must learn from their use of Public Law 480 under which they have been selling in our own region of the world on 20-year terms with payments in local currency. Today, we are losing trade opportunities because of a lack of a new flexible agency to pioneer trade in our own region. 
We need a national commodity corporation to replace the ad hoc decisions on Asian aid which led to such gestures as the presenting of buses to Djakarta with no spares, no replacements and no maintenance, which became a laughing stock until they were replaced, I am sad to say, by Chinese vehicles. Let us create links by trade. Let us use trade as an instrument of aid, to build friendship and build our own great community of the southeast. Let the risorgimento of Australian trade now begin. Let us renegotiate the basis of our trade with USA, let us renegotiate British preferences on a long term binding basis and let us establish a national commodity corporation to promote, facilitate and develop regional trade to replace our ad hoc and casual forays and enable us to meet and beat the government supporting trading of our competitors. 
Certainly we reject the abandonment of the Australian countryside. We reject the Gloomey Dean's retreat on trade. We put forward a positive blueprint for the future of Australia and our southeast region. Perhaps as a final word I could say something about the Government's performance in one unhappy sphere, that isthe sphere of the wine which gladdens the soul so well. 1 think 1 should warn the Government of the words of a group of once happy liberals who wrote a poem dedicated to the Treasurer. It goes like this: 

 Sir, we are liberal when drinking dry red But no longer from what we hear said, Well, you'll add to your booty. by imposing a duty, But we'll down it with Labor instead. 
I support the motion moved by the Opposition in regard to the tragic Budget we have before us at this time. 
I desire to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Secretary of the Government Members Wool Committee absented himself from the House on Wednesday to fly to Sydney to accompany the representatives of the International- 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
Pre-school and after-school education facilities are in urgent need within the Australian community. The shortage has become more acute as more mothers join the work force. 
In advanced countries pre-school and afterschool education are recognised as essential aspects of education for all children. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Provide the necessary finance to enable state education Departments and local Government authorities to establish: 
Pre-school centres 
After-school centres 
Facilities for training the stafffor such centres. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 ask the Minister for Immigration whether it is a fact that he or any other Australian citizen on a visit to countries such as Italy can fly there and back without hindrance from Australian quarantine laws. ls it also a fact that an Australian citizen who flew to Italy to marry was permitted to return immediately by plane while his bride, a non-citizen, was originally ordered to travel by ship because she came from a rural area and was supposedly exposed to livestock disease hazards? Are such decisions based on the quaint view that certain germs originating in Europe can distinguish between Australian and non-Australian passports? Will the Minister confer with the Minister for Health to ensure uniform treatment of citizens and non-citizens alike in respect of travel arrangements to Australia and. if necessary, their treatment in respect of quarantine regulations? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When were the first approaches made to the Government of Japan or its agencies concerning the entry of Australian citrus fruits into Japan. 
How many submissions have been made by his Department since that time. 
What is the date of the latest response by the Japanese authorities. 
Can he say in what way South African authorities have been able to satisfy the Japanese authorities in relation to  plant  quarantine. 
What is the essential difference between the Australian approach foi entry of citrus fruits and its subsequent denial, and the successful export approach of South Africa. 
What current steps are being taken to secure for the Australian citrus industry the same access to the market as that held by South Africa. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many Royal Australian Navy establishments are located in (a) capital cities and (b) elsewhere? 
How many persons are serving in each establishment? 
I think it is timely, particularly in view of this debate, that we examine the Australian fertiliser industry, the support given to it and its role in relation to the Australian economic fabric and the Australian farmer. I think that this examination should be made with some urgency. I did not realise the depth of disparity in approaches to this industry until I listened to some speakers in this debate. We heard from the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  a plea on behalf of an industry developed in Tasmania. He made a convincing and strong case for that industry's future expansion. We heard from the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who spoke with some pride of the industry that has been born in his part of the country. The honourable member spoke of the expansion of that industry in the future. We heard grave doubts expressed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  as to whether we were developing too much capacity and whether in fact we had a desire or need as a nation for the sort of capitalisation which is going into fertiliser production at the present time and which may well proceed further unless some guidelines are given. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  compounded all of the problems by predicting that there perhaps might be further massive amounts of fertilisers of various types produced by various firms already on the verge of new discoveries or new forms of production. 
I think if ever there was a need for the development of national economic guidelines, this debate has indicated that need. As the member for Riverina I know that fertilisers are a most important input into agriculture. They are an essential ingredient in efficient production by an industry which competes, I might say, in quite an unsupported way very often with die products of farmers around the world. It is traditional for the Government to take the sum total of more than $58m, which is proposed to be paid in 1970-71 to fertiliser companies in the form of bounties and subsidies, and say to the nation's farmers: 'See, this is what we are doing for you.' The suggestion is that the existence of an Australian fertiliser industry and the money given to this industry - not directly to the farmer but to the industry - means that the Australian farmer gets his fertilisers cheaper or even as cheaply as those of his competitors. This just is not true in many cases. The Australian farmer is paying more than most of his competitors for most of bis inputs. He does not receive any money directly at all. So I say again that it is time we had an overall assessment of the benefits to him of the present bounties and subsidies. 
As is proposed under this legislation the Government will aid the firms directly. The theory is that the bounty will be passed on to the farmer. We find that in the past 10 years more than $322m has been paid out in bounties and subsidies by the Commonwealth Government to a series of private firms, some of which are major international overseas companies. The sum of S3 22m has gone to a comparatively small number of firms that are manufacturing nitrogenous fertilisers, phosphate fertilisers, sulphate of ammonia, sulphuric acid and urea. The beneficiaries are among those who are producing superphosphate in New South Wales and who comprise 14 companies which operate 22 factories. As I have said, they include the subsidiaries of giant overseas corporations. These superphosphate firms have claimed between them $240m in the past 10 years. This is a lion's share of all the fertiliser subsidies and bounties that have been made available from the 
Commonwealth Treasury. Ammonium sulphate, as has been pointed out, is made from sulphuric acid and ammonia is either made as a by-product from coking operations at steel works and town gas works or it is made synthetically. It is interesting to note that the whole of the ammonium sulphate industry consists of 4 factories, 3 of which are in New South Wales and 1 in Tasmania. The plant in Tasmania manufactures the synthetic product. Half of all the ammonium sulphate used in Australia is applied to the sugar crop, which is mainly grown in Queensland. It is vital to the continued viability of the industry that there should be optimum conditions of price and quality. 
The 4 firms producing ammonium sulphate have benefited only to the extent of about $5. 25m in the past decade and this is not a major outlay for either the industry or the farmers. Australia imports quantities of urea, nitrate of soda and potash, and a bounty payment is certainly involved with these products. But let us have a look at what the national fertiliser industry amounts to. At last count, 48 chemical fertiliser factories employed 4,830 workers and the value of production is nearly $47 m. This figure represents the value of output, less the value of material and fuel used. The value of factory output is $164,714,000 as a marketable commodity. It has been suggested that the nation needs a chemical fertiliser industry. It was suggested with great eloquence by the honourable member for Braddon that such an industry would save us buying overseas, that it would have strategic significance and that it would provide the means of utilising waste. In other words, there is a series of very sound reasons why we should have a national chemical fertiliser industry. I am prepared to accept that possibly this is so; I am prepared to accept that it is necessary by the payment of bounties and subsidies to see that this industry remains a viable proposition. But it is essential in view of the sums of money involved and the dependence of farmers in particular on the end product that we assess the inputs into the industry from the national point of view and what we are getting out of it. 
It has been suggested that at present the Government is giving consideration to the future. It has also been suggested that the Tariff Board will produce a report on the industry - I question that, but 'industry' was the term that was used - in the near future. I am not altogether satisfied that a Tariff Board report and some departmental consideration will add up to the sort of information that this Parliament should have to enable the Parliament itself to make up its mind and to determine an attitude on the future development and expansion of this industry. It seems to me that Tariff Board reports are very often too narrowly based and that they deal with a segment of the economy, very often in isolation. As the Government has made the determination that we are to have a chemical fertiliser industry, surely it is incumbent on the Government to produce a White Paper in which it says: 'We have determined that we will have an industry. These are what the inputs are from the taxpayer and this is the support that the farmers are giving to it.' After all, the farmers have given a lot of support to the small number of firms producing fertiliser over the years. Is continuing support needed? These are the questions. This is what we must plan for in the future both from an investment point of view at the Treasury and from the private point of view. 
Obviously, if we are to be a meaningful party to decisions in this Parliament we need that sort of summation of information. I do not think we will get it from a Tariff Board report; I do not think we will get it from departmental spokesmen. I think it is time we had a look at the economic planning in relation to all of the factors involved. If this was done, it would be seen that the farmers have been giving a meaningful support to the fertiliser industry and to the nation. I do not think that the farmers can afford to support anybody very much at the present time. So, I would like this aspect to be examined. There is no doubt in my mind - and the facts, I think, support this statement - that it is possible for farmers to make better arrangements in many ways for imports as for locally produced fertilisers. 
I am not in a position today to make any sort of meaningful determination as a member of this national Parliament - not at all - because I have not all the data which would enable me to come down on one side or the other. So, what T must do is simply say that we have in existence 48 factories employing 4,830 people. We cannot sack them all and demolish the factories - we cannot do that at the present time - just by throwing out the proposals before us. We are not in a position to defend the farmers' situation because we do not know in fact overall what it would mean if we simply said: 'We will wipe out all protection and bounties, and see what happens then'. 
We have not the data for us to make a determination on that basis and rely on imports. So, I cannot make it today. I do not think that any member of this Parliament can. We have yet another ad hoc decision or a series of ad hoc decisions proposed, and we will accept them for the moment. But I would say, speaking on my own behalf, that it is time that we had a series of economic assessments - I suggest that they be integrated assessments also- on this subject. With due respect to my friend from Braddon this would not be an assessment of one plant in Tasmania or, as mentioned by my friend from Maranoa one plant in Maranoa or of 22 factories in my own State of New South Wales which are producing other types of fertilisers. Such an assessment should not be done on an unco-ordinated basis by looking bit by bit and piece by piece at an industry. We should be looking at the matter within the national economic fabric. 
So, as there is this confusion in relation to fertilisers, I make the plea that early steps be taken to produce a White Paper setting out clearly and definitely the national continuing commitment that we may be expected to make and also- and there is a greater urgency about this - setting out how our own primary producers at the moment can be given the same cost inputs at the same prices of their competitors across the world. The best I can say about the measures is that I cannot oppose them and I must accept them because there is nothing better before us at this time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many Royal Australian Air Force establishments are located in (a) capital cities and (b) elsewhere. 
Where are the establishments located. 
How many persons are serving in each establishment 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many reports relating to trading in wheat outside the Wheat Board, which named individual farmers, have been received from members of Parliament by (a) himself, (b) the Department of Primary Industry and (c) the Australian Wheat Board. 
What members made the reports. 
How many fanners are involved in the reports. 
Will the fanners concerned be prosecuted. 
Tonight as I address the Parliament 1.25,000 acres of land in the Murray Valley are flooded, 38 properties have been under water and 9,000 acres of crop have and 3,000 acres of lucerne been damaged. Most of this damage is between the centres of Tocumwal and Deniliquin in the Riverina and it follows the flood which earlier inundated the city of Albury. Following the flooding I telegraphed the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and asked him urgently to review the control of the river wilh a view to obviating further flooding. As the damage spread and more properties were under water I telegraphed the Minister again and asked for an aerial survey. Yesterday the Minister replied to me as  President  of the River Murray Commission. He said he had discussed my request with his fellow commissioners and they had considered it a State matter. He was referring to the aerial survey. In response to my appeal for better regulation of the river and releases from the Hume Dam the Minister claimed the reduction of the flood peak was brought about by the existence and operation of the dam. 
The Minister assured me that the Commission would continue to control water releases to help mitigate flood problems. But I want to say directly to him tonight,  Mr Speaker,  that the general feeling in the areas concerned is that the damage was caused by the sudden release of a huge amount of water. This sudden release caused the river at Tocumwal to rise from a fairly low level to about 4 feet above flood level which was practically the same height as in 1956 when the area had the heaviest rains recorded in Australian history. Long time residents cannot recall a flood rising as fast as this. I have had letters from all over the area pointing out that an obvious danger existed before the flood of the weir spilling with a little more rain and some melting snow. Officers of the Snowy Mountains Authority in the catchment area had been checking on the snow drifts and were aware of the danger, yet the danger does not seem to have been needed in time by the Commission. 
As a result of the flood the financial position of property holders has worsened quite seriously. This Riverina area produces crops such as wheat. Last year it produced about 12 bags of wheat to the acre and 18 bags of barley to the acre. The crops this year looked excellent and it was hoped, in the difficult rural situation that prevailed, that the growers would have some hope of overcoming some of their difficulties in this area at least. But in one case the entire 900 acres of crop on a property was under water and the flood is moving very slowly away from it. The balance of 1,000 acres, in this case of established pasture, lucerne and clover, is damaged. The fencing is damaged. Because of the size of the flood the costly levee banks built to contain any normal flood were washed over. One property which has been farmed by the family for more than a half century has never had, in that time, a more serious loss. 
Some of the properties have been hard hit at a time when they were changing from sheep because of the artificial wool depression to cropping. Now they have additional difficulties because they have invested in land clearance and machinery. Sheep have had to be evacuated because of the flooding and they are now on expensive agistment. With regard to what went wrong with the flood mitigation policy, I have posed questions to the Minister for National Development on the notice paper. In view of the widespread disquiet in the Murray Valley I feel my questions demand an answer. But tonight I also ask the Minister, who I am glad to see in the chamber, whether he will raise with the appropriate organs of government the plight of the people who have suffered the worst flood they have known this century and who have in many cases been stricken with a new and additional financial hardship. I ask the Government tonight, and particularly the Minister, to act on 2 counts. Let us find out what went wrong, plan to prevent it happening again and let us extend a helping hand so urgently needed to those whose properties are still under water. 
Having listened to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  we can be in no doubt at all about the deep divisions in the ranks of the Government about what might be done in the future for primary industry. As we consider the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry tonight and review the estimated expenditure of $70m we must pose the query as to how the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  can accept the present crisis in the countryside. It might be said that he does not accept it all, that he is fighting manfully to end the crisis, to restore confidence and prevent the flight from the farms. Yet it is the policies that have been his direct responsibility on behalf of the Government that have led to the present crisis in half the nation. In Western Australia 10,000 farmers face disaster. The New South Wales Minister for Lands only- yesterday said that many western land holders in New South Wales have passed the point of no return. In Queensland there is stark ruin for many. 
The actions of the Minister and the Government could well be summed up, as they were in the words of one distinguished agricultural writer the other day, by saying that this has been the year of the mouse. While we have had a plague of rodents which ate the heart out of many summer crops in eastern Australia, we have had the Government in its role of the giant mouse of Canberra and the Government in this role has eaten the confidence out of rural Australia by its decisions. The major responsibility lies with the Commonwealth and with the States compounding the felonies by weakly surrendering even when they have known that Canberra was wrong. The actions of the Commonwealth in facing up to agricultural problems at present are reminiscent of a couple of characters in history - Pontius Pilate washing his hands of any responsibility for decision-making and Mark Antony in throwing discretion to the winds in pursuing Cleopatra. 
In no case has the paradox been more clearly demonstrated than with wheat. The Government's decisions on wheat have contributed to the crisis in the countryside in a major way. I instance that in the West Wyalong district of the Riverina there are 1,000 farms which produce 7 per cent of the States wheat crop. On 18th March 1969 the Minister for Primary Industry told this district: 
I see West Wyalong today in a good position . . . Wheat forms the basis of the district's prosperity and the springboard for progress. 
He was telling the same farmers and their bank managers 6 months later that they should not have sown so much wheat, they should have cut back. He said: 1 warned you. In any case, it has nothing to do with the Government. 
He said that the whole idea of wheat rationing in the middle of the season was the growers' idea. Apparently the 'springboard of progress' means we should go back. We have a new language to learn: Progress' means 'to retreat' and 'springboard' means 'to be unsprung'. If it were not so serious this would be comic, but the fact is that the Government panicked, lt misread the season and the facts of the situation and feared a harvest of 500 million bushels in 1969-70. In a Mark Antony role the Government rushed to impose rationing by telling the industry it would be given just enough credit to pay a $.1.10 a bushel first advance on 357 million bushels. There was then an elaborate pretence by all those who accepted this decision, including the States, that it was all the fault of the farmers. They had got themselves into trouble; they had overproduced: then they had asked for rationing in the middle of a season. Then Pontius Pilate took over again in Canberra and washed his hands more vigorously than before, making it plain that all these decisions belonged to someone else - the industry, the States. But what happened was that we did not reach the national ration for last season set by the Government. The rationing proved unnecessary, yet the Government refused to act to take in all the wheat and pay the first advance. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  was prepared to make all the money available to do so. The Minister for Primary Industry refused to take and to use that money. He refused to give the leadership to enable it to be done. Today there is wheat that has been delivered by farmers which has still not been paid for. In other cases wheat is still being held on farms. Yet the Treasurer has made clear that money is available to take and pay for it all, but the Minister for Primary Industry refused it. In this year of the mouse he bears a personal responsibility for that decision. 
Time and time again the Minister has denied that there has been any significant black market trading in wheat. I have asked myself how he could really believe this to be true and 1 have come to the conclusion that among his historic roles in the past year he has included that of Nelson:  His  blind eye has been most active.' Wheat carried through 2 Riverina centres alone between 12 midnight on 12th April and 6 p.m. on 15th April amounted to nearly 25,000 bushels. This information was ascertained from just one random test on 2 roads only. Two properties alone contributed 80,000 bushels to cross border trading. But what was the Minister's reply when he was asked by a Riverina delegate to the annual State conference of the Country Party at Griffith whether he was sympathetic to growers who had been forced by Government policy to sell wheat on the black market? The Minister said: They will get no sympathy from me.' He said that interstate dealings were despicable and sabotage. Immediately the ViceChairman of the New South Wales Country Pary,  Mr R.  M. Mack, rose in his place and said that he had sold wheat interstate. He said that he had 4 years quota in mesh bins and after 7 months the hessian sides started to rot and the mice were getting into his wheat. He said: 'Unless the Minister can suggest any other method 1 will continue to sell it over the border*. What was the Minister's response? He sought the Crown Solicitor's opinion on an excise duty of 50c or 60c on interstate wheat sales. He has been backed by only one voice in this Parliament - that of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who wanted members to turn informer on their constituents and report them to the Government for selling outside the Board. The guilty men are not the growers but the Minister and the Government who had money to take in and pay for the wheat within their own ration but refused to do it. So the crisis in the countryside has been contributed to by the Government's decision on wheat. 
What is proposed for this year? We have a roaring drought in the nation and the Government admits that its own national ration will not be reached, but we still have an army running around the countryside with bits of paper for rationing which is totally unnecessary this year. I can forgive the Government and the Minister in their successive roles as Mark Anthony, Pontius Pilate and more latterly as Nelson, but I cannot forgive them for their stubborn refusal to face the realities of the coming season. We will not reach the national ration. There is a strong demand for wheat and the so-called huge surpluses are disappearing steadily. I want the Committee to know that a month ago the price of black market wheat along the New South Wales-Victorian border rose sharply, in some localities to 80c a bushel. Within the past week there have been further offers at 90c a bushel at the farm gate. This will be a better return than the Government can provide through the Australian Wheat Board. Contracts have been offered and prices have risen. The demand is strong. I warn the Government that if it persists in its attitude more wheat will be sold outside the Board than will be sold to it. In many cases growers will not be bothered with a Government which persists in policies of retreat and pessimism. They will sell where they, can out of desperation. I challenge the Minister to gaol, fine or harass the growers forced by his policy to go against their own desires and principles. It would be a graphic illustration of the bankruptcy of the Administration if it were reduced to prosecuting its own members, supporters and even State leaders for acts born of despair of their own government. 
The wheatgrowers have done well by the nation and the Treasury. By next March or soon after, according to the Minister they will have repaid advances of $250m on the nation's record harvest. Not only will the Government get its money back but also the growers will pay $25m in interest at rates which were increased over the years by the present Government. The Minister, while saying that he wanted to defend the growers and wanted people to understand their commitments, said in Western Australia that the Government would have to find some $30m for stabilisation and that this money would go to the growers. He knows that this is not true, that large sums go to the debt ridden State railways and to the Government itself by way of interest Yet he has never mentioned these things. 
While talking of huge surpluses, the Minister and the Government refused direct gifts of wheat to starving Queensland stock. Yet in the very week that the Government was asked to do this it announced a gift of 30,000 metric tons of wheat to Pakistan. That followed the gift of 26,000 tons last year. This represents $3m worth of wheat which has gone to Pakistan in 2 years because of flooding in that country. Why has there not been some direct aid, some direct assistance, of similar magnitude to Queensland without the bureaucratic circle of red tape? The Government has power in its hands to begin to end the crisis in the countryside by taking in and paying for all wheat produced last season and this season within its own national ration. It can help Queensland by extending the same generosity as it extends to Pakistan. It should recognise that the coming season could see it losing control of the industry altogether. Let the Government end the year of the mouse and stand up to its responsibilities for a change. That is the challenge of this season and this time. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise tonight to protest against the imposition of a blatant political ban on the export of meat to the United States in the guise of quarantine and wholesale meat requirements. The situation is one which requires the' strongest protest and action by the Australian Government. It might be remembered that following a ban imposed on Australian mutton the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  told the Parliament that it had been rejected by United States authorities because it did not meet the standards laid down under the United Slates Wholesale Meat Act. The Minister said Australian mutton has been rejected because it was unclean with particles of foreign matter. He defended in fact the action of the United States administration and 1 would hope he had been merely misled. He did tell the House some of the requirements were impossible. But he did not say the Government had acted firmly and strongly against the sudden imposition of impossible conditions on an Australian export industry. In fact all the Government has done is to recruit some additional meat inspectors. But it has failed to realise the whole excuse that our standards are not high enough could have been exploded by an immediate investigation in the United States itself. 
I have just received a report from Washington DC which indicates clearly that standards prevailing in many United States meat plants are far below the standards generally prevailing in Australia. At a time when a political ban was being imposed on our exports, at a time when it was claimed our mutton was not meeting high United States standards, at a time when indeed we were being asked for impossible conditions and the Minister was talking about our mutton being 'unclean', the United States administering agencies were accepting much lower standards at home. The report from Washington is the report by the General Accounting Office which states that Government investigators found meat contaminated by rodent excrement, hair and rust in 35 slaughter houses and packing plants in the Mid-West, the meat centre of United States of America. At 9 other plants the investigators found animals being slaughtered and meat products being prepared under unsanitary conditions which could result in contamination. It was only after the General Accounting Office, which is removed from United States meat industry influence, made its report that the Department of Agriculture forced 5 of the plants to stop selling their products interstate, 2 plants were closed and steps were taken to protect products in 10 others and 27 further plants had to be upgraded. This is what was found after an investigation by the General Accounting Office of only 48 plants out of the many hundreds scattered across the United States. Even more interesting is the fact that some of the condemned plants met existing United States standards and the GAO said they found inspections generally lenient. But the federal investigators found rats, mice, dead flies, cockroaches, dirty equipment, crumbling plaster, peeling paint and carcasses lying on the slaughtering floor. At one plant they saw metal shavings on the blade of the carcass saw which could have become embedded in the meat - and some of the shavings were an inch long. 
These were the conditions of a country which suddenly and savagely shut the door in our face and asked the impossible. This is despite the fact that we buy $ 1.000m worth of products from the United States of America every year and have access for only half that for our own products. 
I want to say in the House of Representatives tonight that I have visited abattoirs in many parts of Australia, in the Riverina, in Gunnedah and at Homebush in Sydney where only a year ago the most modern plant in the Southern Hemisphere was brought into use. I have never seen the conditions I have described tonight from the United States report in any Australian abattoir. The meat inspectors located in our abattoirs are drawn from both State and Commonwealth. They duplicate each other's work, they double up on inspections. They know the standards are high. They know they are doing the job. 
That is right, but I was thinking in terms of the ones we have in New South Wales. The honourable member is quite right but they do duplicate. They double check and they do the job well. But they resent being pushed around by someone else's regulations born out of purely political decisions, 10,000 miles away. 

 Mr R. G. Jones of the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council has expressed his resentment and that of the Council.  Mr P.  J. Anderson of the Australian Meat Board has said exporters are faced with $200m expenditure to meet United States demands.  Mr Stan  Hill,  Chairman  of the Metropolitan Meat Industry Board, has described the many demands as having nothing to do with the product processed for the United States. 
It is obvious the United States administration acted under pressure from its meat industry lobby. It has been quaintly described as a home town decision. That is understandable but what is not understandable is why our Government did nothing and why it agreed with these extravagant demands. I ask the Minister and the Government to send an urgent mission to the United States to confer with the General 
Accounting Office, seek the facts of the situation and then lay it on the line to the United States Administration that we are just not going on giving them  $2  for  $1  in trade if it is going to slam the door in our faces every time some pressure group in that country demands it. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What compensation has been paid to apple and pear growers in respect of export losses and losses caused by devaluation. 
How many growers have received these payments. 
Had all these growers exported prior to December 1967. 
If growers had not exported before that date and were paid compensation, what criteria was applied in each case. 
There is a motion of censure needed in this Parliament - a motion of censure for what has been permitted to happen in the Parliament and to the business of the nation. We have a crisis of depression in the rural half of the nation. We have a crisis in education. We have a crisis in the quality of life. We have a million people on the poverty line. We have the nation stumbling to an uncertain future. But these are not the issues we have been led to deal with by the Government. We have had to deal with too much trivia, such as that initiated by the Government on Thursday of last week. It turned the Parliament into a palace of petty petulance, of dummy questions, of aspersions and innuendos, of vilification and slurs, of waving flags and of comparing dirty pictures, dirty in intent. These have been the tactics of diversion; the tactics of deliberate diversion. They have turned the Parliament into some sort of circus in these last few days. In the last days of Rome Nero gave the people circuses. In the last days of this Government we have a new form of circus but it is being played here to the detriment of the nation. 
We had a reply a moment or two ago from the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  based on 2 major points. He referred us to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had spoken somewhere close to some flags. What a circus of flags we have had. I might refer him to the fact that the Liberal Premier of New South Wales.  Mr Askin,  on one famous occasion in the town of Leeton made a speech under a sign which read: Vote Grassby (1) for Mumimbidgee'. He has not been expelled yet. Even the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  not so long ago spoke under signs which were in red and which read: 'Vote Grassby for Riverina and for progress'. I. have not noticed that he has been censured. I have not noticed that either of those gentlemen stopped in his stride and said: 'My goodness, 1 must tear down all the signs before I go on with my speech'. Where is the Minister's sense of balance and commonsense in approaching these matters? Then it was said that the News and Information Bureau was brought in quite innocently. It was all terribly innocent. If it was all terribly innocent, and this after all was the Government's News and Information Bureau, what was it doing concentrating exclusively on the Leader of the Opposition? Why were all the speakers not photographed? Why was there not a complete coverage? I think the answer is self evident. T might say that this tactic of turning the Parliament into a circus and into a place of entertainment is to be rejected. If I want entertainment I do not come to Parliament. I come here to work on behalf of my constituency and the nation. If I want entertainment I stay at home - it is better. I suggest that we go to the root of this debate, and how it began and why. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
As 1 walked out of the Chamber at the suspension of the sitting I was asked by another member of this Parliament why I had entered this debate. He said: 'You usually confine your submissions in this House to matters of specific national importance'. I told him bluntly, and I tell the House tonight, that I entered the debate because the people I represent who have pressing problems of survival have asked me: 'What are you doing in Canberra? What are all these goings on? 
Why do you not gel down to some serious talk?' On behalf of the great majority of our people I resent the degeneration in these recent days of this great national forum into a circus of personal abuse and a clash of big egos. The Government has deliberately manufactured this circus. Why would it do this? The answer might be: Why would it not do this? 
Why would the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  come in this afternoon and hurl pure abuse? Why indeed? Because he is deeply ashamed of being associated with a 50 cent handout to pensioners. Why would the  Deputy  Prime Minister spend ali weekend acting as the father confessor to the Leader of the Opposition and adjudicating on his conscience? Why would he say that the main issue before the Australian people is the private conscience of the Leader  of  the Opposition? Why would he not say this? How can he explain 21 years of supreme power, the power and the glory, because he and his colleagues have had privileges, titles, honours - unchallenged power and rule. What has been the result? It has been a. depression in the country-side. So why would he not want lo talk about the conscience of the Leader of the Opposition? lt is better than talking about the bankruptcy of share farmers and the hardships of wheat growers. It was the Deputy Prime Minister who said at the weekend that the first decision, the top priority, for the Australian people to reach is a decision on the conscience of the Leader  of  the Opposition. The second, of course, concerns the wheat grower, the wool grower and the rest. 1 respect the conscience  of  the Leader of the Opposition, but the survival of half of Australia, the rural half, is more important to me than the conscience  of  the Leader. Of course, this is my value and this is bis value. Why would this Operation Division not have been mounted? Why would we not have law and order and parliamentary democracy? lt is better than having to face up to the fact that the rank and file  Australian  Country Party members have told their representatives in Parliament that their handling of wheat is a disaster. It is better than facing up to the fact that good Country Party members across the countryside have been saying that we need a single firm statutory authority to market wool. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Anthony) seems to be agreeing again with the international brokers. By all means let us have the conscience of the Leader of the Opposition, let us have law and order and let us have every abstract issue. But what humbug. Nothing was said about the Minister for Primary Industry, after defying one half of the Australian Parliament, the Senate, denying the other half, the House of Representatives, the right even to debate an issue of importance to the rural sector. I refer to the merino ram embargo. 
I can understand how it seems difficult for the subject matter I have dealt with to be linked with this motion of censure for the waste of the nation's time. I rise in my place to support the censure motion because the nation's time is being wasted and because the Parliament's time is being wasted in personal abuse and a circus of photographs and flags. 
I am tired of humbug and false issues. I want to ram home where the responsibility for this waste of the Parliament's time and the nation's time lies. This has been going on for some days. Let us go back to the beginning of this sordid interlude, and let us be quite clear. It began on Thursday, 24th September, when the Government Whip, the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  rose in his place and raised a matter of photographs and what, appeared on them. This was carried on almost immediately and, I am sure, quite spontaneously by the Minister for the Interior. I want to quote what he said on that famous occasion at the beginning of this circus of photographs and flags. He said: 
I really suspect that the Leader of the Opposition himself, being a man of destiny he claims to be, will realise that many thousands of Australian people are genuinely concerned that the Leader of the Opposition and some of his supporters should, while making anti-Vietnam speeches, be seen to be so patriotically attached to the Vietcong flag that they should make speeches under the Vietcong flag. 
That was said by the Minister for the Interior. Of all the people in this Chamber he is the last one who should make that statement, because it has not been borne out by any of the photographic evidence that we have seen produced here or even the evidence ordered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  himself. The words 'under the Vietcong flag' have been used. The Leader of the Opposition is even more innocent of speaking under anything than even the Premier of New South Wales or the  Deputy  Prime Minister who spoke under a sign with which I was associated, as I mentioned earlier, But that was the charge and that was the diversion. Let me remind the House that the Leader of the Opposition had been probing the shipping monopoly that could cost Australia $100m a year. That was his first question and that was the opening of question time. Then we had the battle of the photographs. The Government did not want to discuss shipping or the exploitation of our people or any of these serious matters. It wanted photographs and circuses, and that is what we had. Then the Government continued the diversion. It raised again the matter of photographs. The next day at question time the Leader of the Opposition got onto the all important matter of service pay and conditions for the Royal Australian Air Force. The Leader of the Opposition raised that important matter of the very survival of the RAAF in the defence of the nation and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  having said nothing in reply, we were back to the circus again. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  produced a flag. He was not interested in the service conditions of the RAAF. He was not interested in the serious issues before the Parliament. He produced a flag and waved it in the Chamber. We were back to the circus again. But we had not finished. Another Government question then accused the Leader of the Opposition of disaffection. The Prime Minister endorsed this entry into the next ring of the multi-ringed circus organised by the Government in the best traditions of Nero in his declining years. We were then taken into flights of fancy about mutiny and all these other matters which have been raised purely as matters of personal abuse. If there were any real substance in these matters and, if we had not been witnessing the very debasement of the language, we would not have seen, after this out-pouring, the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth going as comrades in arms to a Royal Australian Air Force reunion, sitting down and recalling the great days of the nation in World War II, Of course this would not have happened if these had been serious matters. If the words of mutiny, treason and lack of patriotism had meant anything, they would not have been going forward in the way they have been. But of course the words do not really mean those things at all. They were a debased use of the very words; they were meant purely as a diversion from the real problems of the nation. 1 have left behind today constituents suffering from flood, a rural squeeze and a depression unparalleled in my lifetime. I have left them behind to come to this national forum to listen to what? To listen to talk about flags and photographs and petulance- 
I know who interjected, but he shall remain nameless. In his own conscience in his own room tonight he can reflect on the things I am saying. I have left behind people who are suffering real disabilities. 1 have left people who have concern for their future and for the future of the nation. They do not regard the crisis in the countryside or the matters to which I have referred in the nation as a whole as matters of laughter and amusement. They do not regard the Parliament of the nation as a place for circuses. It is a matter of deep regret that this entire incident which began last Thursday has occurred in the way it has. I say very simply that we should have an end to this petulance and an end to this circus in the Federal Parliament at this time and we should get down to the major matters that concern us in the nation, the major matters that, when I go home at the weekend, people raise with me. They want to know what has happened in a whole range of circumstances and a whole range of issues. They are very interested, of course, in the conduct of the Prime Minister. They are very interested in the conscience of the Leader of the Opposition. But these things are not paramount in their minds and they are not paramount in my mind. 
These are great men in our community. They have a great role to play. But to degenerate the Parliament by this petty pemlance and individual attacking is not good enough. It does us no service; it docs us no honour, lt is not what we are here tor. We should end this debate which was deliberately inaugurated by the Government on Thursday, 24th September, by a series of dummy questions and a series of matters that were personal. If these things are to be argued on a personal basis, I suggest that those concerned book a hall somewhere. Let them be loose and let them be free. Let them debate to their heart's content, but let us not have this waste of the national forum and the nation's time. I have spent days here listening Vo personalities. 
The honourable member for Banks has used a term that 1 do not normally use. As a matter of fact, in the dining room I like tripe, but not in the chamber. We have very little time at our disposal to deal with the matters that are important to us and important to the nation. 1 feel that the censure which has been moved today has been moved because of the circus of the last few days. We have seen the production of photographs, the production of flags and the waving of photographs as much as to say that we really all take seriously what has been said by members of the Government. They know very well and very clearly that this is simply a tactical diversion from the real issues of the nation. As far as I am concerned, we should be finished with it. 
Charges have been made about the good faith of the Government and the Prime 
Minister In dealing with these matters and In initiating these tactics  of  diversion. This is the reason for the censure. We should be back  to  the nation's business.  I  serve this warning on behalf  of  the grass roots of the nation: The coming Senate election and In fact the next election  of  the House of Representatives will not be fought on street photographs such as we have seen produced here. They will be fought in the kitchens of the nation where families have to eat and survive, and where the families are concerned. It is to the kitchens of the nation that we should be paying our attention. We should be paying attention to the survival of the families of the nation as a whole and not to street photographs and not to turning this great national forum into a palace of petulance. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amounts are outstanding to dried fruit growers from the stabilisation scheme implemented before the recent referendum. 
When will these amounts be paid. 
Can he say whether the present delay is causing considerable concern among growers who are facing a particularly difficult time. 
 At a time when the Australian migration programme is under more sharp questioning than at any time for 20 years it is as we to examine why. The major reasons can be found in the distortions of Australia's development. We are the most lopsided nation in the world, and for 20 years we have been bringing men and machines into the cities and creating overcrowding in an empty continent. Migrants are being poured into the metropolitan complexes with a reckless disregard to the quality of life and to the balanced development of the nation. The migrants are not all being drawn from overseas. Sydney and Melbourne these days are drawing migrants from a countryside in crisis. It is little wonder that the suburbanite looks over his back fence and begins to wonder whether we have too many people and whether we are overcrowded. It is a proud boast in our empty continent that Kings Cross in Sydney is the most thickly populated square mile in the world. 
In these circumstances we must recognise that the questioning of the migration programme is in fact the questioning of the development of Australia. It should be dealt with as such. In other words, the current examination of the cost-benefits of migration are of little value unless they are related to national planning and national objectives. Because we live in the most unplanned economy in the Western world, it is difficult to assess what is best for the nation. In other words, without national planning or national growth objectives it is extraordinarily difficult, if not impossible, to achieve the best balance in migration and migrant intake. 
Let us examine what has happened in one city area because of bad planning at national and State levels or no planning at all. In the south Sydney area served by the community referral centre which my colleague the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  helped to bring about, half of the population is drawn from Yugoslavia, Lebanon and Greece. The other half of the population includes  a  group of Aboriginal migrants, refugees from a countryside in depression, a large number of pensioners,  a  whole series of high rise developments which contain a majority of deserted wives and Service wives, women without husbands, and children without fathers. What a mess of sociological pottage. The aim is migrant integration, but how can we successfully integrate such a fragmented community? This is a situation which should never have been allowed to develop. But it has developed and we are reaping the problems. 
Take the children. Because of the strain on the teaching system the teachers are frustrated and the children suffer. Some children have developed what is called school phobia because they are either too frightened or too overwhelmed to face school and they just do not go. Australians often look at their suburbs with big migrant populations and have a vision of tightly knit national groups. Nothing could be more unreal. So many of the families are outside any kind of community activity. Their old church, family and locality ties have been broken. Even the comradeship of work is denied them because the man works here, the women works there, and by the time they meet it is to get some rest for the next day's grind. In many cases the only individuals they ever meet are those who want to sell them something. In many cases these disengaged people are robbed by those who pretend to serve them. It is true that chain migration avoids this kind of spiritual and cultural isolation, but we have thousands of people who have come from outside chain migration. 
The humanitarian arm of the nation's migration policy has only latterly been strengthened to deal with the situation that we ourselves have created. I refer to the Good Neighbour Movement, with which I have been associated for 17 years and which works with church and community groups. The Minister opened the State conference in New South Wales  a  few  days  ago.I flew in later in the day and was proud to be there. Only now has the movement been strengthened by skilled social workers. Only recently in that south Sydney area has a referral centre been established, and it fills a vital need. The council in that area has done more in social welfare at the grass roots level than the State and Federal governments put together. I want to see an investigation of the social problems created by ourselves. I feel these imbalances in national development affecting old and new Australians alike should be probed and tackled. It should be done as part of the current inquiry. 
I turn to Asian migration. I have been associated with the migration to Australia of doctors from India, pharmacists from Singapore, cooks from China, nurses from Fiji and Thailand, and more latterly I have had some dealings with some people from Macao who have not yet reached here. But there is confusion as to what are the requirements for migration from Asia. There is delay in processing applications. There is downright bumbling by nonmigration officers not sure what current policies should be applied. 
As I was saying before the division, I believe that we should establish urgently a migration office in Asia. Manila, which is in the heart of our own Austro-Asia region, would be an ideal location for the first office. It would have specially trained and briefed staff who could process in the first instance applications from all over Asia. There would not be that many; not that many are interested. The majority would probably be Australian educated professionals wanting to return. At present we train them, send them home, refuse to readmit them and they go to Canada and the United States of America and get jobs using skills that /* we need here. 
The office could provide also a focal point for Australia to keep in touch with the thousands of students who have trained here. They want to keep in touch. If the whole exercise is any good, we have to keep in touch with them. A skilled office, with skilled specially briefed staff could be a focal point for former Australian student contact throughout Asia, a place where we can evaluate in a continuing way the value of what we are providing for Asian students - in some cases, our courses are not even recognised when these students get home - and at the same time the office could be the reference point from all our missions for applications from Asia. To continue the present arrangements is not good enough. We need this Asian migration office. 
There is no doubt in my mind that migration needs to be continued in each and every remaining year till the end of the century. As to the solution of the difficulties in the present programme, 1 say that we reject the solution proposed that we halt migration. My solution would be for the nation to develop new frontiers of development so badly needed for its citizens both old and new. We must create new cities for the new century based on conservation works and rural development. New agri-urban communities - agropolises I call them - could be the most exciting places to live, created by the best planners and architects, bringing people from overcrowded urban Australia and from across the world to build new and viable communities across our nation.  Mr Chairman,  that is my considered submission to the Committee tonight. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has he received  a  request from the Commercial Apiarists' Association of South Australia for a poll to be held to ascertain the views of apiarists in connection with the Australian Honey Board. 
Will he accede to this request 
If not, why not. 
asked the  Minister  for  National Development,  upon  notice: 
Will he arrange to release urgently the River Murray salinity report and recommendations requested by his Department; if not, why not. 
Is it a fact that the report contains much valuable basic data which should be widely disseminated and which is urgently sought by technical bodies such as the Victorian Irrigation Research and Promotion Organisation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I rise in this debate in the first instance to echo the sentiments of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  What (he honourable member for the Northern Territory has said in relation to fuel is only too right. The new impost on fuel, as he just said, will be a lax on the development of the nation, lt will certainly be a hurtful tax in relation to a countryside in crisis. I hope that the words of the honourable member will be translated into real activity and real opposition. When the bells ring and the vote is taken on these measures, I would be very happy if he would sit with me in opposing thom. After all, that is the moment when a member has lo make up his mind. He either supports the proposals or he does not. lt is not very much use, I am afraid, saying that it is not a very good idea to do this and to say then: 'Of course, the Government is going to do it and we must accept it". 1 do not think that this is the attitude that we should carry through in this debate and in the debates on the Estimates. Surely to goodness when we see something that is not acceptable - completely unacceptable - from the point of view of the people whom we represent and completely unacceptable sometimes in common sense  -  and I will deal with that in a moment or two in relation to wine - we should say very bluntly that we reject it and that the Government must go away and think again. So, I invite the honourable member to sit with me as he once did on another matter of conscience. Even if we do get beaten, never mind; we will act together. 
Tonight we are dealing also with the proposal to tax a primary industry which has asked the Government for no support, no subsidies and no special consideration. It is a primary industry which, however, may shortly need to frame an application for Government subsidy, if the Government persists in its announced policy of a tax. I refer to the wine grape industry. The Government in defiance of the expert evidence of economists, of advisers and of the industry itself decided to ignore all the advice and to impose, for the first time in our history, a wine tax. I predicted accurately and warned in advance that this Government impost would add 15c to each bottle of wine. This is the position. So it has come to pass. 
By its decision, the Government is threatening not only wine grape growers in nearly every State but also the very stability of an industry which already is contributing magnificently to the Commonwealth Treasury. If the Government persists in its intentions, it will not only reduce a flourishing industry to subsidy status but also rob itself of desired revenue. The tax will hit an industry which is making a contribution to our export income of between $2m and $3m a year. The Australian wine industry has come a long way in a short time. Australian wine has been sold in a score of countries. It is sold even to an agent for re-export to France. One can sit in some French cafes and order a glass of red and find that one is sipping a product of Australia. This is a measure of the acceptance and status of our wine these days across the world. But the wine industry has great prospects of serving Australia further with more exports, side by side with a progressive expansion of the home market. If the Government persists with this Bill and if it survives the division which we will force on this measure it will sabotage carefully made plans in the industry because the wine tax was sprung on the industry, lt came as a shock. As a matter of fact, when the tax was predicted there was disbelief that such action could be taken because it is not an action based on commonsense. 
I stress that there are long term plans for the expansion of the wine industry at home and abroad. I shall illustrate this by citing some examples. Some years ago we sold a million gallons of wine per annum to the United Kingdom. Today exports to that country are down by half and they are expected to fall to 250,000 gallons. Consequently, we must examine the export position and plan for a change. We have exports prospects in areas such as Canada and Japan, but time is needed to enable us to develop alternatives to the British market. In addition we are facing a build-up of stocks in Australia this year to 56.2 million gallons, an increase of 5 million gallons over the previous year. Australians have been drinking about 2 million gallons more wine per annum in the past 3 years and the industry was looking forward to us drinking a further 2 million gallons in 1970-71. The Government's action in imposing a tax on wine means that sales of wine in the lower price group could drop by 20 per cent, which is more than 2.5 million gallons. If we lose these sales and the predicted increase in consumption of 2 million gallons the industry faces a situation in which it will be left with 4.5 million gallons per annum. 
In my own area of Riverina we produce 90 per cent of all wine produced in New South Wales and 25 per cent of all light table wines produced in Australia. I might say also that we do our best to drink this nation into prosperity. The average Australian manages to consume only a couple of gallons of wine each year, but by the banks of the Murrumbidgee River we each manage to consume 20 gallons of wine per annum. I am glad to say that our example in this activity has been followed in the national capital which is now drinking about 10 gallons of wine per capita per annum. I am glad to see this development. But the Government proposes to encourage home wine-making only, which is quite incredible. 
 It is not bootlegging; it is perfectly legitimate to produce wine. My honourable friend is referring to the fact that it is not permissible to distill spirit even to brew beer. If we adopt the principle which is enshrined in this legislation I see no reason why the home brewer or home distiller should not be given an opportunity to produce beverages for his own consumption if he chooses to do so. Let us consider what is proposed in this legislation. The Government proposes to encourage us in our home drinking by allowing a family to consume 400 gallons of its home-produced wine. Already in Australia we have more than doubled our intake of wine on a daily basis, but if we were to consume the amount permitted bv this legislation we would become the greatest wine drinkers in the world. The Government has adopted a peculiar approach. It has said: 'Wc are going to bring in an impost. We are going to cut back the industry to the extent of 20 per cent of the increase that it had in mind. We are going to cut that back in the commercial sphere but we are going to encourage each and every family to drink 400 gallons of wine a year.' This is a most peculiar set of thoughts put together in this piece of legislation. Perhaps the answer to the Government's intention is for all adult Australians to link together in a great co-operative so that they can each fill their allocation of 400 gallons and ignore the Government, its taxes and its imposts. It is quite a romantic thought. 
In seriousness 1 want to enter a plea to the Government, tonight, even at this late stage, on the basis that it. has proceeded in this matter against the advice of economists, against the advice of specialists and against the advice of the industry. It would appear that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  got together one evening and said: 'Let's have a beer. Let's have a whiskey - imported, of course - and the wine growers can drown in their own vats.' If the Government is hungry for revenue I would recommend that it direct its attention to the flood of foreign brandy which is being imported. They are not the best brandies of the world; they are dumped brandies,  Mr Speaker,  that you would not grace your cabinet with at all, and neither would I mine. But they are coming in. Our people tend to be misled occasionally. In fact they are misled very regularly. They see a label and they say: 'We will have that.' They buy it. They are buying it in increasing quantities, lt is a dumped product; that is all. 1 am suggesting that if the Government is hungry for revenue it should apply itself to the dumped products that are being brought here and not hit our own industry, not cripple an industry which has been standing on its own feet and doing a job for the nation in its exports abroad. We see a veritable flood of material coming in. It is not so long ago that I went to a fuction where they wanted to do me honour and, after the address, they brought me to a place where they had a very large quantity of wine. They unveiled this quanity of wine with a great deal of pride. When 1 looked at it I saw that it was the wine of one of the 21 republics of the southern Americas. I might say that it was the worst wine that I had tasted for a long time, but they had bought it because it had an exotic label and because they were encouraged by subtle advertising. So the stuff floods in. lt is being sold. So if the Government is hungry for revenue 1 commend an examination of these imports. By all means let the Government get a little extra from them. Certainly the situation in regard to our own industry is that this particular tax should not be imposed at this time because of the effect on the industry, the effect on the growers and the effect on the community. It will utlimately affect the Treasury itself, which will not benefit. 
The only voice of realism that I have heard from the Government side on this matter has been that of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who was given this rather unwelcome foster child of the Treasurer. He readily understood that what the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry had apparently decided was just not workable. He indicated - I am very grateful for this - that he does not want to see wineries closed down and the industry stricken. He said he would do what he could to avoid it. This helpful attitude was appreciated, because apparently the people who framed this tax gave no thought at all to its operation or to what it would do to individual wineries. 
-I did not quite catch the interjection of the honourable member for Angas. I would hope that he is standing with me on this. 
I hope that he is standing with me on this. 
I want to refer the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry to the fact that they have overlooked the published economic evidence.  Dr J.  Taplin and  Mr W.  Ryan have published the forward prospects for wine in Australia.  Dr Taplin  has examined the proposed tax. They have indicated that price is a fairly effective regulator of consumption.  Dr Taplin  also predicted a 20 per cent drop in consumption if the wine tax is applied. He said that the price rise would bring about a crisis in the industry in a couple of years. The Opposition met representatives of the wine grape industry, growers' representatives and the makers' representatives. They were pretty blunt. As a matter of fact they could not have been more blunt. In the 'Australian Grapegrower' of August there is a magnificent cartoon which is entitled 'The final crush'. lt shows a barrel labelled 'Australian Wine Industry'. In it are the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Treasurer tramping the grapes. There was one rather sad thing there. One of them seems to have his boots on. The comment attributed to the Prime Minister is: 'Good work, Leslie! This makes the last of the rural industries we've managed to crush.' That was a statement by an industry which has been hurt. It is resentful, and it has expressed its resentment in these terms. 
I go back to the point that the only published economic data indicates that the tax is a tragic error. 1 ask the Government whether it undertook through the Bureau of Agricultural Economics a study of the effects of a duty imposition. I ask further whether such a study was commissioned. If it was commissioned I would like to be told this. I would also like to see the report tabled so that the Parliament can apply its collective talents for study to the recommendations, and make comments on it. That is a reasonable request. The honourable member for Angas who interjected just now spoke in this House on the tax and he indicated that he would vote against it. I was happy to hear this. 1 was particularly pleased. But on a very careful examination of Hansard I see that he said he would only vote against it if the industry were brought to its knees. I suggest to the honourable member for Angas that he should not wait until that. He can do it tonight. He can vote with us now. He had some discourteous remarks to make about my appeals on behalf of the industry. I regret this, but I feel that the honourable member for Angas was under some pressure because the people whom he represents have demanded some action from him. I do not blame them at all. 
I know that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  was another sturdy freedom fighter for the primary producers, but he is the most silent man in the House on the subject. He also has been asked what he is doing about this impost. There has again been a deathly silence. We have had a great deal of silence on this subject from the representatives who should be saying to the Government today: 'All right; we understand that you acted in haste. We will forgive you, but take it back for the moment. Table the one set of economic evidence that we have. Let us all have a look at it together'. I do not ask anyone in the House to do anything more than examine the data which has been amassed by the only people who have carried out an examination. They have carried out examinations on the effect of this tax. They have come up with a very definite conclusion that it will mean an absurd situation, that the Government will on the one hand impose a tax and. on the other, have to receive an application for subsidy and assistance. This is a matter that has surely reached an absurd level. 
In this debate at this particular time in the consideration of the Estimates surely the Government even now, with the support of the members representing wine grape producing constituencies, will say: All right; we will take it back. We will have another look at it. We will have another look at the economic data which apparently was completely ignored in relation to this matter.' It is not just a matter of another tax; it is a matter of the viability of an industry, lt is a matter even of the good management of the nation and the Treasury because how silly it will be for the Treasurer to announce one day that the tax will be imposed and the next day for the Minister for Primary Industry to say to the Treasurer, on behalf of growers: 'I must have a subsidy to offset the tax you imposed yesterday*. Surely this Ls the most ridiculous proposition we have had before us yet. I still say that honourable members who represent the industry should say to the Government in a united way: Take it back, have another look at it, table the documents, table the economic evidence and let us do the sensible thing by a growing Australian industry and by the Treasury itself. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I was misrepresented by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  in his reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  when he said that the farmers' rally held in Canberra yesterday was organised by me. This is totally incorrect. 
The organiser and convenor of the rally was  Mr Bob  Hudson of 'Cowary', Wilcannia, in conjunction with the Edenhope Agricultural Bureau, and with the support of other groups in New South Wales and South Australia which subsequently withdrew their- 
Thank you. 1 was about to add. . . . 
 I rise particularly to echo the sentiments put forward by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in relation to this measure. It has been said by the Government that this is a temporary additional bounty to local manufacturers currently producing bountiable tractors. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  in his second reading speech described this bounty as an urgent short term measure. He also indicated that the Government bad received from the 2 Australian manufacturers of tractors eligible for bounty evidence which indicated that the industry was facing serious damage from import competition. Of course, he aso added that investigations carried out by the Government indicated that there had been a substantial downturn in total sales of agricultural tractors in Australia. Of course this was a recognition of the crisis which exists in the countryside at the present time, lt was an acknowledgment of the difficulties which are being experienced internally. While I support the measure, a question that has to be posed to the Government tonight is whether it is satisfied that this measure will restore some stability to the Australian agricultural machinery industry. 
In view of the fact that it is a component of rural industry and that the crisis in the countryside has now spread to the cities, we should place it on record in this debate that the Australian agricultural machinery industry faces the retrenchment of 14,000 men this year as a result not only of imports but of the continuing rural crisis. In 1967-68 28,000 people were directly and indirectly employed in the agricultural machinery industry, together with 12,000 country dealers and representatives or distributors. It is estimated by the industry that in the current financial year only 9,000 will be left of the labour directly and indirectly employed, and that 7,000 dealers and their individual representatives may well be out of business. This is an incredible situation. We are looking at the possible demise of the Australian agricultural machinery industry against a background of history in which this industry led the world in so many directions. It led the world in its evolvement of new machine parts, new machines and new approaches. Yet if the present crisis is allowed to continue it could mean the complete extinction of the Australian controlled agricultural machinery industry. 
I say that with due weight and seriousness, because the components of the industry have said that they are feeling the Weight of the crisis in the countryside and they are feeling the weight of interests that would be quite happy to take them over Australia exports nearly $8m worth of agricultural machinery. Australian production overall last year amounted to $131,808,000, but this year it will be cut by half. The contribution that agricultural machinery has made to agriculture generally may be gauged by the fact that the value of the machinery on our farms amounts to more than $400m. This gives an indication of the size and importance of an industry which today comprises  7  local manufacturing companies of major size - I stress that - and 8 overseas companies. They are the national figures. When one examines the machinery firms across the nation one finds, as I have found in one centre in the south west, a situation where there has been a firm which regularly has been the major factor in employment in that town. Its turnover has always been adequate to maintain a work force on which the town has relied to a major extent. Today its turnover is down by half and its work force is rationed as far as employment is concerned because of the situation and the crisis which exists in the countryside. 
The challenge to end the crisis in the countryside is clear and urgent, as my colleague the honourable member for Dawson has pointed out, not only in the interests of the countryside itself but in the interests of city workers and city industries such as we are talking about at the present time. This opportunity must be taken by the Government. The Minister carries the burden tonight of showing whether he believes that this measure is adequate to prevent the extinction of an independent Australian agricultural machinery industry. That is the issue before us at the present time, not just tractors and not just imports. 
I would enter a plea, on behalf of all those who are concerned, that the Government might now examine urgently the plight of Australia's agricultural machinery industry with a view to extending a further helping hand to prevent it being bought out by overseas interests. 
As I pointed out, the rural crisis is hitting not only the farmers but country businessmen and employees. It is now also hitting city based workers in industry. I submit tonight that the battle for survival in the countryside, however it may be bedevilled by party politics and pettiness in some respects, is vital not only for country people but for all Australians. If the countryside empties then the vacuum will inevitably be filled by overseas interests. So I submit that this is not just a rural crisis. It is a national crisis. The question to be posed to the Government tonight in relation to this measure and in relation to the agricultural machinery industry generally in our country is: Is the Government telling us tonight in relation to this measure that this is enough? Is it suggesting that this will meet the crisis in the agricultural machinery industry and the nation? If it says yes, I suggest that the Government has been misinformed. 1 would suggest that it confer with the industry to learn the facts of the situation and to take firm and strong steps from this point, and this measure, to ensure that this nation does not lose its agricultural machinery industry, because that is the challenge in the position that we face at this time. 
1 rise tonight to rectify an injustice which has been perpetrated by the Government against people in the Australian countryside who have had the temerity to believe that we have a crisis in the rural sector and that the Parliament should know about it and perhaps apply itself to rectifying it. I refer to the deliberate campaign of sabotage that was waged against the farmers rally in Canberra yesterday. Once it was announced that this rally was to take place, members of the Government in the countryside went into action very well and very efficiently. Let me pay a tribute to those members of the Government and their machine. It is still strong, enduring and capable of convincing people in the countryside who are going bankrupt that all is really well. 
I want to tell the House of the efforts of a lonely and dedicated primary producer who has been libelled in a quite shocking way by some members of the Government. 1 refer to  Mr Bob  Hudson of 'Cowary', Wilcannia, who was the convenor of the rally in Canberra. He acted out of motives of pure loyalty lo his family, his neighbours and his colleagues. He gave a lead, and he talked and pleaded with members on all sides of the Parliament for a better deal for country people. He was not a member of any political party and he never at any time mentioned any party politics. All he wanted was for the Commonwealth Parliament to know and to understand what the problems were and to take some action. He sought the support of the Edenhope Agricultural Bureau for the rally, and it gave support willingly. He sought the support of fellow farmers in other States, and they agreed. He invited no fewer than 20 ministers and members of the Government to address the rally. He invited only 3 members of the Opposition. Every Government member had some excuse for not being present, some valid and some not. The 3 members invited from the Opposition benches willingly accepted. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  was in Fiji; the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  was at lunch; the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was at lunch. In fact, with some honourable exceptions, they all seemed to be eating. 
This was the public attitude of the Government towards a rally by people who had problems. There was no doubt in my mind or in the minds of the people who did the job that in the background there was a campaign of sabotage led by those freedom fighters for the countryside, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt).  By implication they labelled the Edenhope Agricultural Bureau, the one body without fear or favour or politics, a body that had stood firm. The organisers of the rally were stooges, according to one Press release. The Government, of course - let us be quite blunt - largely succeeded in its sabotage and its aim. It attempted to discredit a man who had put his time and money into a protest against the present crisis in the countryside. One Government member is reported as having stated to  Mr Tom  Connors of the 'Australian Financial Review' that he was very pleased to report that he had stopped one busload of farmers on their way to Canberra. He just told them that it was not necessary. 
Well,  Mr Tom  Connors has not said, but it is published, and if there is any refutation to be made I hope it will be made. That was the confidence that was given to him by a Government member. 
I would not know. The South Australian delegation apparently was betrayed by a man who sold his farmer neighbours out for political endorsement. He was able to spirit them away from the rally and to receive a personal and private blessing from the Prime Minister. Then the Government came forward today with perhaps the ludicrous statement of all - that the rally was organised by the honourable member for Riverina. Tonight 1 say lo the Government that if 1 want to organise a rally I will do so and I will let Government supporters know about it. J am quite capable of managing it. 
I am sorry, I did not hear the Minister for Repatriation. If he has something to say 1 will wait for his interjection. 
As the Minister for Repatriation said, it was not a case of 1 did not get too many there, but that the Government's campaign of sabotage succeeded. I hope the honourable members are proud of themselves. I have not heard the honourable member speak in this House on any of the problems of the countryside. But he will have an opportunity tomorrow night when I will take him up on his challenge. Holten challenges Grassby on wheat policy. I say to the Minister: Come into the chamber tomorrow night and we will have a discussion at your convenience. I did not rise tonight to defend myself. 
I invite the honourable member to come in to the Parliament tomorrow night for a change and discuss the policies of the countryside. Accept the challenge. We will be delighted to meet the honourable member on the adjournment. I want to say in relation to the people and  Mr Bob  Hudson in particular and the Edenhope Agricultural Bureau that it is true they were let down by people. It is true that there was some betrayal, some sabotage, but that does not detract from the good will and good intention of those people. 1 was proud to have assisted them. I have assisted farmer rallies before, even rallies presided over by a Country Party senator,  Senator Tom  Bull in Narrandera. I have supported and encouraged rallies which were presided over by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  because they seemed to me to have some merit and good intent on behalf of people and not petty party politics. 
On this occasion I gave my support. Tonight I repeat in the House of Representatives that I was delighted to do so. I think it was a miserable action to try to label and to denegrate a man who gave his time and his dedication only for his family and his neighbours in the countryside. I refer to  Mr Bob  Hudson particularly. I cannot understand how men who come in from the countryside in crisis can turn their backs on people of good will who are doing their best. This was not an attack on th.. u.-n-&gt; -nVe member for Riverina. It was an attack on people who had a desire in something better done. The people who were responsible for the labelling and sabotage should be ashamed of themselves. I stand in this House proud of my effort to stand alongside people who were good in their intent and in their intention on behalf of their people. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
On what date did he receive from his Department the document referred to in his answer to my question No. 1325 (Hansard, 19th August 1970, page 217) which discusses in depth developments in natural resources, particularly minerals, forests, water and energy. 
I desire to address a question to the Minister for Immigration. Does the Minister recall my inquiry earlier this year seeking information as to when the new migration agreement between Italy and Australia would be ratified? Is the Minister aware that the non-ratification of the agreement has caused speculation that the Government has changed its mind and intends to revise or abandon the agreement, perhaps in conformity with the request by some Government members for a general cut-back and the suggestion by one for a 10-year moratorium on migration? 
Does the agreement give concrete assistance for (he first time in 20 years to re-uniting divided families among die 750,000 Italian settlers and their descendants in Australia today? Will the agreement be continued and if so, when will it be ratified? 
MiDeputy  Chairman,  I rise tonight to speak in this debate on the estimates of the Department of National Development to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and also to ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to consider a specific request to provide matching grants for a series of self-help irrigation industry groups that are today scattered across Australia. These self-help irrigation industry groups are a unique example of grass roots action and grass roots decision making in our country. We have a centralisation of power in Australia which is quite remarkable. In fact, it is quite unique across the world. Decision making tends to be performed either in Canberra, the Federal capital, or in the State capital of whichever State may be concerned in the matter to be decided. Some 20 years ago in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area there was a great experiment launched with the establishment of a body titled the Irrigation Research and Extension Committee. This body was unique. Among other things it brought together the Federal and State governments, industry and grower organisations at a regional level. This was the organisation which was used to launch an experiment in regional agricultural administration. It was a 7 year experiment which proved to be such a success that the entire State of New South Wales today is divided into these regions based on the experience of the Irrigation Research and Extension Committee. 
The Commonwealth has a $1009 national resources development programme. My request tonight, directly and personally, to the Minister is to consider direct aid and encouragement to irrigation research and extension bodies. Let me mention some of them apart from the Irrigation Research and Extension Committee which was the original body, the mother body if you like, and one on which I had the privilege of serving as Secretary and Executive Officer for something like 10 years. Since the establishment of that Committee we have had a brood of offspring of these grass roots organisations. The second one established was the Yass Valley organisation which operates not many miles from here. Then there was the Murray Valley Irrigation Research and Extension Committee and, more latterly, the Victorian Irrigation Research Promotion Organisation. These organisations brought together all the knowhow and financial contributions of the appropriate Federal agencies, State agencies, processing industries and the farmer organisations in the region. They have been able over the years to arrange a series of trials and experiments which have transformed in many instances extension services to agriculture. I referred earlier to the 7 year trial period of decentralised agricultural administration which has now been adopted as a pattern for the whole of New South Wales. 
The Irrigation Research and Extension Committee also appointed the very first agricultural machinery officer in the Commonwealth. lt was a trial and when the trial proved itself these officers were incorporated in other areas of New South Wales. I might say that the Irrigation Research and Extension Committee of the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area has pioneered in many other directions. Another instance which comes to mind was the appointment, as a trial, of the very first bilingual liaison officer. He was appointed because half the farmers in a given location happened to have arrived from Italy. There was a language difficulty, not in saying 'good morning', 'good night', or 'how are you', but in understanding technical information. This regional body said: 
Let us appoint an officer who is technically qualified, bilingual and a specialist in agriculture in the old world and the new'. We did this and it has now been proved to be sound practice and has been adopted by the State authorities concerned. 
Generally speaking these agencies fulfil this form of activity. They fill a gap. Perhaps the Commonwealth Government or the State Government is not convinced that something is worthwhile either in the research or extension sphere. While the Commonwealth or State governments are considering and deliberating upon whether they will undertake this form of service in agriculture these organisations act as the centre for experimentation. They have trials. They raise money from the Federal and State governments, from industry and from the farmers. They all get together and try out new items. If it is demonstrably the correct and good thing to do  the  appropriate government agency is asked to undertake or take over that particular responsibility which has been developed in the region. I suggest to the Minister that it is his job and responsibility to see to it that the $100m that has been allocated by this Parliament for irrigation development is properly and soundly used and applied. I am suggesting to the Minister tonight that these regional bodies, the regional partnerships of Federal and Stale agencies, farmers and industry have provided a means whereby the best possible techniques can be applied to the use of irrigation water. 
Irrigation, of course, has been under attack. We have critics who have supporters in this Parliament. We have critics of irrigation development who have very lively apostles in this Parliament. Sometimes 1 wonder who gave birth to them, the representatives here or the apostles of antiirrigation outside the Parliament. But there is an important lesson to be learned from the opposition. Most of it is founded on an imprecise understanding of the facts of the development concerned. Again it is important to use these regional bodies to disseminate information and improved knowhow to the irrigation industries themselves. It is not suggested that the irrigation industries have reached the ultimate in production or the ultimate in efficiency but certainly they are the most efficient sector in Australian agriculture. Irrigated areas provide one-quarter of all the agricultural production of the nation. So this is no mean sector of primary industry. It is important that these regional bodies be looked to, firstly, to disseminate information generally and, secondly, to give the technical support to irrigation industries which will make those industries even more efficient. As I have said, this has been demonstrated by the Irrigation Research and Extension Committee in the Mumimbidgee Valley. The principle has also been demonstrated in the Yass Valley. I know the Yass Valley has been concerned with dry farming mostly and it has been the great area of superfine wools. The problems there are mostly economic rather than technical but there is a need to support them and to support the work that has been done. 
I would like the Minister to examine the idea that wherever the Commonwealth applies funds for irrigation development it should at the same time ensure that there is an adequate information centre for the dissemination of information as to the cost and benefits of the particular scheme. In other words, it is important to ensure that everybody is completely informed of the basis of the decisions which led to the project, how it has been implemented, how it is being carried out and what the ultimate benefit to the whole of the nation will be. not just to the rural sector. The precedent for assistance to these regional bodies has already been created. Federal Government agencies are already participating. For example, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Bureau of Census and Statistics, and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics are already participating. I am suggesting that the Minister examine ways and means of utilising these extremely useful regional bodies to promote sound development. I ask that he also consider making grants to them so that they can work better and more effectively at the grass roots level of agriculture and irrigation development in our nation. 
On 2nd October, in the course of a public meeting at Corowa, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  launched a personal attack on , my integrity. It was not the first time that he had done so. He also issued  a  challenge to me to spell out the policy of the Australian Labor Party on wheat. In a scurrilous personal attack he said: 
This is not the first time I have challenged his accuracy and I repeat that many of his statements cannot be relied upon to be factual.. 
Last night, during the debate on the adjournment of the House, I accepted the challenge by the Minister and invited him to debate the matter with me in the chamber tonight. I am delighted to see that the Minister is now entering the chamber. The main point at issue with the Minister is, apparently, the Opposition's policy on wheat. I will spell it out carefully for him. I am delighted that he is here to listen attentively. I will explain it very carefully for his benefit. I do so with the unanimous support not only of my colleagues present in the chamber but with the endorsement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the  chairman  and members of our parliamentary rural and resources committee and, indeed, the entire parliamentary Labor Party. 
It is our policy to take in, and to pay the $1.10 first advance for all wheat within the national quota set by the Minister's own Government for the 1969-70 season. I point out that in relation to the 1969-70 crop the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  assured me - I have his letter to this effect - that the money would be available. He said that he would make available the full sum of $440m earmarked to take in the national quota set by the Government itself. We did not reach the national quota. The Treasurer had money left over. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and his colleagues refused to use the money earmarked for the national quota. Wheat growers and share farmers faced ruin as a result of the Government's decision to impose wheat rationing in the middle of a season. But even when the national ration was not reached and although the' money already was available from the Treasurer, the Government refused - and still refuses - to take in that wheat and to pay the first advance of $1.10 on the whole crop. 
The Australian Labor Party has said that its policy is to take, in and to pay for all wheat within the national quota. This is a clear commitment and we stand by it. The same goes for this season. We would take in and pay for all wheat produced within the quota. The Minister and the Government know full well that Australia will not reach the national quota this year, for the second year in succession, yet they persist in heaping misery and restriction on wheat growers. They are the guilty men who have caused the crises in the countryside and they are trying to hide their guilt by hurling abuse at the Opposition. 
Having clearly spelt out our policy for the Minister for Repatriation in this Parliament I invite him to withdraw and apologise for the scurrilous statements he made in a deliberate and personal way. This is not the first time that the Minister has been guilty of unparliamentary practice and personal attacks. He has soiled his office as a Minister of State by using that office to attack my personal integrity. The Parliament itself, through you,  Mr Speaker,  took him to task on 12th June and he was forced to withdraw his statements. They could easily have landed him in court if I had taken the action that many members felt was justified in view of the breach. But the Minister withdrew under orders the reflection on my credibility. I had hoped that he had learned his lesson. I had hoped that perhaps my .consideration in not proceeding against him might have led him to see the error of his ways. If the Minister is fully recovered from his earlier phobic reaction, then I invite him to do the right thing - accept that he was wrong, return to the days of his sporting youth and withdraw and apologise. If he is not recovered, then I commend him to the Department of Repatriation which he administers and perhaps he might seek some friendly advice for the phobic reaction which is marked in some people, by the way, by being thrown into a panic by anything from a toy balloon to perhaps the honourable member for Riverina. 
My medical colleagues advise that it is possible the trouble is what is called in their parlance a reaction formation. In such cases the patient pretends to himself to possess motives that are the opposite of the real motives that are causing him anxiety. This could mean that be really likes the member for Riverina or his policies but that he has an anxiety reaction to accepting them. I only hope that any appeal tribunal consulted by the Minister does not dismiss the whole thing as being due to degenerative processes, as so often happens in such appeals. But if the Minister is well, then let him do the right thing and admit that he was wrong and apologise. If he is unwell then he should remain quiet and be guided by the good specialists in his Department. I might say that he will have our combined good wishes for his speedy recovery. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Can be state how many countries are contributing financial and other forms of aid to Indonesia. 
If so, which are those countries. 
What amount of aid was voted by each of these countries, including Australia, for (a) the current financial year and (b) the financial year 1969-70. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
When will colour television be introduced into Australia. 
Will he ensure that, when colour television is introduced, town and country will be afforded an equal opportunity to enjoy it. 
Will assistance be given to those country stations which are unable to afford the initial cost of introducing colour television. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many Australian Army establishments are located in (a) capital cities and (b) elsewhere. 
How many persons are serving in each establishment. 
I strongly support the purpose of the Bill, which is to amend the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act to provide for the payment of an export bounty on skimmed milk powder, buttermilk powder and casein production export in 1970-71. But as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, we are concerned about the long term future. The importance of these by-products is growing. I feel the non-fat processed milk products will be even more important to the industry and the nation's exports in the future. We have heard that they have risen in volume, that exports have substantially expanded and that further prospects have been good. It has also been recognised that difficulties have been raised by other governments. This again poses a challenge to our own administration to pave the way for the greatest volume of exports that is possible. It is a fact of life that the Australian dairying industry is under tremendous pressure to reorganise. I think it is perhaps one of the most maligned industries we have in Australia. There is a continuing campaign to denigrate its achievements and overall efficiency and, in fact, label it as surplus to national requirements. While it is true that the Australian dairying industry has spheres of trouble it should be recognised that in many respects and areas it is one of the most efficient in the world. I think I can speak at first hand on this. The dairying industry of the southern Riverina can match the efficiency of any of its competitors anywhere, even abroad, if it is given the opportunity to do so. 
I think much of the criticism of the industry is in tact a criticism of lack of overall guidance and direction. I was encouraged to hear a reference just now to the effect that we are to have overall planning of the dairying industry. If the planning means there will be national responsibility in the future for the disposal of the products I think it is very welcome, because this has not been the position so far. The dairy farmer has been encouraged over the years to base his operations on butterfat and to breed and buy his cows from the butterfat point of view. The Federal subsidy in the past has largely been based on butterfat production, and then we have had surprise expressed that the industry has produced too much butter. So there is obviously an urgency about the restructuring of incentives to produce proteins. The great demand in our AustraloAsian region and in the world generally is for protein for which the most exciting market opportunities exist despite the fact that there will be continuing difficulties to overcome through government to government relations. Nevertheless, the most exciting market opportunities lie in that direction. 
So there is an urgency about paying incentives for protein-based production, and I welcome this measure. I talk about incentives rather than subsidies because in many cases the so-called subsidy to a primary industry is not a subsidy at ail. It is only a contra item partly offsetting the subsidy which the industry pays inefficient supportive services upon which it unfortunately must rely. There is a lot of talk about efficiency in the rural sector, but I feel the debate should be widened and enlarged to take in the whole of the Australian industries. 
I want to direct the attention of the Committee on these estimates for the Prime Minister's Department to a relic of colonial days - perhaps the most expensive relic of them all - namely, Australia House in London. This magnificent morgue will cost us $5.6m this year. Salaries alone will cost $2.7m. It costs us more than most of the rest of our overseas missions put together. The proposed expenditure of $5. 6m compares with the $700,000 for our representation in our nearest neighbour, Indonesia. It compares with the $2.4m provided for the Embassy in Washington - the acknowledged power base of the Western world. 
Perhaps it would not be a matter of complaint if we were getting value for money expended on this post in London. But Australia House has a reputation for pompous play acting which has reached a new pinnacle of puerility under the present High Commissioner. Not only does it fail to promote better understanding of our problems, hopes and aspirations in London, but its antique styles and attitudes are a positive hindrance. Its antique colonialism is indeed an embarrassment to Britain which has moved ahead of such postures. 
The fundamental error built into this relic of the colonial past is the attachment of this overseas post to the Prime Minister's Department. It is the only overseas diplomatic post that I can find which is not under the control of the Department of 
External Affairs. It is probably the worst post we have in its effectiveness. So surely it is time that we ended this situation and recognised that this overseas mission needs reform. It should be a part of the Department of External Affairs. It should be the subject of a special inquiry to establish why it should cost 30 times more than the average overseas mission. I point out that in the nation next door, Indonesia, we have only a single Embassy building in Djakarta. We have no regional offices. We do not even have an office in West Irian, which is on our very border. Surely the expenditure of $5.6m on Australia House is a ritualistic hangover from the imperial past. 
Part of this hangover is the continued use of the title of High Commissioner instead of Ambassador, which is widely understood. It is a title which causes confusion and serves no good purpose. It could just as well be a reference to the boy scouts or to the fire brigade. Both those organisations have commissioners. As an indication of the confusion, I should like to mention that in an Indonesian school textbook I saw on one occasion it listed the basic structure of the Australian Government as comprising firstly, the British High Commissioner, secondly the Governor-General and thirdly the Prime Minister. This was the trinity of authority as understood by the compiler of that textbook. I can understand what is given to me as an excuse for its retention, that the letter of credential cannot in theory be presented by the monarch to herself; but this is hardly sound when we understand the monarch in theory is a separate and distinct Head of State for each independent nation. So let us away with the meaningless form of title, an antique complex, and inquire into the value we are not getting for money. 
I thought if the House was in doubt as to the flood of complaints about the inadequacy of this antique establishment I might mention one which is typical of the continuing complaints about the face Australia presents in Britain. It is an incident in which a distinguished British scientist who had secured an Australian appointment called at Australia House to find out something about the town and the area in which he would be working in Australia. He wanted to know not only because of his own interests but that of his family and his school-age children. Did the place have schools? To what level did they go? What was the climate like? Who would settle there? All kinds of natural questions came to his mind as he called at Australia House. Bear in mind, he had secured an appointment and was therefore in theory an officer of an Australian Government agency. The town he happened to inquire about was Griffith, the area was the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area, probably the most intensive area of irrigation in the nation. 
Modesty forbids me to to say. But whoever was on duty confessed to never having heard of the irrigation area, and asked could the officer call back. The officer did so the next day and the efforts of 24 hours produced a venerable copy of the 'Women's Weekly' which had a reference to Griffith. The mountain had laboured and brought forth a mouse. It would seem surely there is a need for a reorganisation of the place to ensure that the face of Australia does not seem to be dark, dingy and singularly uninformed. A mission costing more than nearly all the other missions put together should be the shining example. And a shining example it is not. So I would suggest that the structure of government could well be updated by removing this relic of our colonial past from where it resides in a corner of the spreading Prime Minister's Department and put it where it belongs, with all the other missions, so that at least we will have some touch of professionalism in its administration and in its handling. I commend the thought not only to the Parliament but also to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  who, I would hope, would call occasionally at this dingy corner of past empire and sweep it up. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon, notice: 
Are sewage and other wastes from the Australian Capital Territory being turned into the Murrumbidgee River. 
Have these wastes brought complaints from authorities along the Murrumbidgee. 
Is it a fact that a large proportion of this river is comprised of effluent during low flow periods. (4)Is it a fact that small communities along the river draw untreated water from the river for household purposes. 
Will the National Capital Development Commission's proposal to build new sewage treatment works to serve most  of  the Australian Capital Territory near the junction of the Murrumbidgee and Molonglo rivers lead to a greater turn in of wastes to lie Murrumbidgee. 
Will he inquire into and report to Parliament  on  the present degree of pollution caused by Australian Capital Territory wastes in the Murrumbidgee River and then organise measures to curtail this pollution. 
Will he ensure that in future planning the Australian Capital Territory wastes turned into the Mumimbidgee will be treated to a standard that will protect all the communities along the Mumimbidgee as well as fish and wild life. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many local authorities and other bodies have requested the establishment of a north-south highway, uniting Queensland and Victoria. 
Could such a highway be useful as a defence highway and as a beef road to provide access to markets, fattening areas or abattoirs for stock from the north. 
Do existing highways pass through large centres of population. 
Are these highways already overcrowded with heavy goods transports, tourists and local traffic. 
If so, would stock trains add to existing congestion. 
Will be use his newly acquired staff to examine road and rail links between Queensland and Victoria, including the Tocumwal-Mangalore link. 
In seconding this motion I would point out that the urgency of the matter has surely already been admitted by the Government and particularly by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  only yesterday when he used the term 'national disaster'. It has been covered perhaps from the national angle. I want to say that as far as the individual is concerned it is a great personal disaster and one which will just not wait for many months for the legislation to go through what might be called the 'usual channels'. Even at this time on the way to Canberra and Sydney are fami lies who face dispossession and ruin, who face the end of their life's hopes and. of course, savings. This is a situation which will be multiplied many times if measures are to be postponed for months on end. People have reached the end of their tether. It has been suggested that they can go to the last court of appeal to get money to carry on, that is, the Rural Reconstruction Board which operates only in New South Wales. That Board has run out of money. This State agency which is supposed to be caring for these people has nothing left. The  Chairman  of the Board said: 'I have no money. I cannot deal with them any more'. These people are now forming a queue in the hope that the Board can get some money to save the situation for them and their families. 
It is no longer just a matter of talking about what have been called by some people though certainly not by rae 'marginal producers' - the people who they say must go, the people who will inevitably disappear. It is not just that matter at all. In fact, the other day there came to my notice the position of a man who 12 months ago had a $250,000 capital investment which was readily negotiable as an asset. Now he has no actual asset, because nobody will buy it. He has no income and nowhere to go. So this is not merely a sectional matter affecting a few poor people who, some people say, have to go anyway: This is an attack on an entire industry'- I say 'an attack' because I am not altogether convinced that this is a situation which has been allowed to develop without some thought to the consequences. It may be the view that this industry should be destroyed very largely as an individual industry at present. 
The Government has said - and it is on this particular point that we are taking the Government at its word - that it intends to take some action. It intends to try to stop this crisis deepening. What we say, and what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said in moving the motion, is that we will accept the Government's word that it has this intention, that it will take action, that the time for tea and sympathy is ended, that the words and the talk are over and that we will see some action. Whether we will agree with the action is another matter but certainly we support the intention to take action. What we are saying now is that surely the Parliament cannot just disperse in the 4 winds of Australia without anything being resolved and without anything firm being done. The honourable member for Dawson said that it had been indicated to him that possibly there would be a draft Bill - a skeleton Bill - put in the post and sent to him in north Queensland. That might happen; it might not. We might all be sent away - all dispersed - and nothing done. We may not even meet again this year when we do rise and it may be the end of the sittings for 1970. Of course, we all know the Government's form: It will not want to come back within cooee of New Years Day, so if we get up and do not return in 1970 we will not take action until a number of months have passed, and in every week that passes there will be more bankruptcies and in every month that passes there will be a deepening of the crisis. This is our concern. 
What the Opposition has said, very simply, in the motion is that this is an opportunity for the Government to show that it is really sincere about wanting to take action now. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  says: 'I will do everything possible'. What we are proposing now is to give him the opportunity to say: 'Yes, I was sincere in what I was saying. My words meant something. We will do something. We will accept what the Opposition is putting to us at present'. Our proposal is put forward as a measure of help and a measure of assistance very sincerely on behalf of the people who are in the trough of a real depression now. 
I rise to support strongly the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition and particularly in its application to the concept of total planning at both Federal and State levels. In particular I want to stress the State aspect. I might mention in passing that the electorate of Riverina possesses some of the most outstanding examples of successful Aboriginal citizenship as well as some of the nation's most intractable Aboriginal problems. But in regard to the examples of successful citizenship, I think I should mention, perhaps with some pride, that a national champion has emerged from one of the families in the Riverina area. I would like to pay a small tribute to that champion, Miss Evonne Goolagong, who is a young Australian of great distinction and who has represented her nation at home and abroad. When I say her nation I mean our nation - the nation to which all of us belong. As she once said in a very fine moment: 'I like to think of myself as a representative of the nation, as an Australian, and not simply as part of the nation*. I believe that her words might be a guiding inspiration to us in our efforts to tackle the problem that is before us in the Parliament tonight. 
I rise particularly in this debate on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill to seek some assurance from the Minister for Social Services and MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  that we do not in fact vote more money to the States and find that the States are doing effectively less. T know that this is a serious charge to make or to imply, and I am implying it, but I want to spell out what has occurred in New South Wales and tell the House of my own involvement in this matter so that my implication may be understood. As a member of the Legislative Assembly of the New South Parliament I voted - it was a pretty unanimous decision  -  to establish an all party committee to explore the problems, hopes and aspirations of Aboriginals. The Committee was also formed to see what we might do to better our services to that section of the Australian community. The all party committee. 1 might say, did a splendid job. The members of the committee drawn from the Parliament and the officers of the committee proved to be dedicated and interested. As I have said, they did a splendid job. The committee brought down its report in the Legislative Assembly. The report, which received general commendation, was stimulating and it gave rise to useful debate in the Parliament of New South Wales. It gave rise to a series of very useful recommendations. 
One of the basic recommendations was that the Aborigines Welfare Board should be abolished. The inquiries and investigations of the committee indicated that the Aborigines Welfare Board in New South Wales had not fulfilled its function and had not done the job that it was hoped it would do. It had not done the job that in fact it had been established to do. Therefore, it was recommended that the Board should be abolished. It was coincidental that at about the time the report of this all party joint committee was presented to the Parliament the Aborigines Welfare Board embarked on some improvement projects - and I am speaking from only personal experience here-- at least in one quarter of New South Wales. After a very long period in which nothing very much had been done the Board established an office at Griffith to administer this quarter of New South Wales. The Board staffed the office with excellent officers. Those officers were particularly outstanding and dedicated men. They then began to move out from that office to the various communities scattered throughout the Riverina and the other sections of the south west quarter of the State. They were able to encourage and influence in many valuable projects. Those officers gave much personal encouragement and assistance to Aboriginals. I was delighted to see this progress; I was very pleased about the operations which had been initiated. 
But, of course, there came the time when the Parliament of New South Wales in its wisdom implemented the report of the select committee and said that the Aborigines Welfare Board, should be dissolved and its functions taken over by the various departments of State that were charged with the care and responsibility and welfare of the rest of the community. It was felt that this would be the best possible thing to do. Therefore, in due course it was decided by the Government of New South Wales that the Aborigines Welfare Board would cease its operations and would be in fact dissolved. I accepted the recommendation of the Board because this decision was made by the Parliament in good- faith in the belief that more would be done in the field of welfare and in the sphere of social advancement. On the occasion that the report of the committee was being debated 1 sought from  Mr Eric  Willis, the ChiefSecretary of -New South Wales, a specific undertaking that the office which had been established in Griffith to service that quarter of the State, including the south-west, would not be closed and that the officers would not be dispersed. I put this clearly and definitely because of the good work that was being done' and because of the hope that further good work would be put in train. I put my request forward very sincerely. I received from the ChiefSecretary a firm and unequivocal assurance that the office would not be closed, that the officers would not be dispersed and that the various projects would be continued. 1 might say that as I speak tonight the office has been closed for many months, the officers have been dispersed and of course, many projects have languished as a result. This is not acceptable to me and it is not acceptable to the many people on both sides of the chamber who are concerned in Aboriginal advancement. 
At Griffith we had a facility which was working for the first time. We had a useful facility which was working from headquarters in Griffith but this is now closed. The specialist officers have gone and they have not been replaced. The whole burden of work in this quarter of the State has now been given to an officer of the Child Welfare and Social Welfare Department who has already been called upon to cover a tremendous area and to tackle very many complex problems. He has neither the time nor the specialist training to apply himself to Aboriginal problems. So in 1970 we have less being done than was being done 2 years ago. This leads me to rise on this occasion specifically to support the amendment because I want to be clear in my mind that the money which will be voted and dispersed to the States will lead to more being done and not less. I have been deceived once. I do not want to be deceived twice. So I would ask the Minister, who I am delighted to see is again at the table, whether he will apply himself to my query? I raise this matter with full sincerity in the hope that we can in fact restore the facility that we had, restore programmes which have been dropped and that in fact this amount of money which the Federal Parliament is tonight being called upon to vote will in fact go to a better programme. We should ensure that it will not go to abstract administration, be syphoned off and fall' through the cracks in the State floors so that the Aboriginals would in fact receive less. This is the point I raise with great sincerity. 
There will be general support for this measure to give greater scope to the States to establish processing works. 1 want to submit a suggestion to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and to the Government relating to initiative which the Commonwealth can undertake in relation to fishing. My colleague referred to the fact that it is possible for the future of some processing works to be in doubt due to fishing grounds failing. It has been said that Australia's fisheries research lags so seriously and to such a degree that the Russians have more precise data on the fishing grounds surrounding this continent than we have. 
One of the largest and best equipped fishing centres in the world is the Tropical Fish Culture Research Institute at Malacca and it is in danger of closing. This centre has been financed jointly by Malaysia and Britain, which is now withdrawing. It was originally designed to serve Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia. The suggestion I advance, briefly but sincerely, is that the Government take the initiative to discuss with the Malaysian authorities the conversion of the centre into a regional research centre serving Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia and Australia. Malaysia has been asked to take over responsibility for maintaining the Institute but seems reluctant to do so. This year's funds from Britain and Malaysia are assured but beyond that the future of the centre is completely uncertain. The director,  Dr G.  A. Prowse, is worried that he is going to lose his research staff. Some of them already have indicated that they may go. It has been suggested also that even if the Institute is kept going it will be on a smaller scale and will not be able to do very much. 
I hope - and it is possible - that the Minister and the Government, in conjunction with this welcome step forward with the States, will take the initiative which would enable a useful instrument to be retained for regional purposes. We could have a real interest, not only in respect of our own fishing grounds but also with respect to our responsibilities in the region to join with other neighbours, particularly at this time, and to facilitate their advance in spheres such as this. I advance that suggestion and hope it will be considered by the Minister and the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I rise in the first instance to echo the sentiments of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that the Parliament should spend far more time than it does on measures such as this which are connected directly with the development of the Australo-Asian region. Surely this is the first region in the world in which we should be interested. It should receive our first call for action and certainly should have the first claim on our attention. I think that our attitude in this matter was summed up rather well in the 'Financial Review' just recently. After having disagreed with the leader writer of that publication on so many other occasions, on this occasion I agree with him most enthusiastically. He said: 
Now is the time to begin considering how Indonesia's developing economy and the expanding Australian economy can be more usefully integrated - rather than at some future date when strident domestic pressures on both sides will make rational planning difficult or impossible. 
Since I have been in this place I have made this a theme. I was delighted to hear the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  join me in this plea to the House tonight. In relation to the Asian Development Bank, the annual report for 1969 states: 
The Bank's record of performance in the first three years clearly reflects its mounting impact on the region. There is a growing appreciation of the fact that the Bank has a substantial and distinctive role to fulfil in the economic development of Asia. 
While a knowledge of the skills and techniques developed elsewhere is important and essential, the know-how' of regional development must have an indigenous basis. 
This is the point that ] wish to take up. I recommend most strongly that the 
Government apply itself to an examination of the techniques of aid, which again were referred to by my distinguished colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. This is a most important matter. We have made some very serious errors in the past, not only in Indonesia but also in the Australo-Asian region.  I  think it is important to use the expertise which has been developed in the region in expanding our commitment. I should like to add one other thing in relation to this commitment. I do not regard it as terribly impressive. In an answer given to me just the other day the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  said: 
I am informed that at least 12 countries are contributing aid to Indonesia within the context of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia. He was not able to give me figures for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or for a number of other countries, but he did provide me with sufficient data to indicate that Australia is not really playing by any means the major role with our nearest neighbour. In fact the United States of America - I grant it may be the power base of the Western world - contributes an estimated $202.7m. Japan follows with $126.1m. Then we have the Netherlands with $31m and France at almost $14m. The Federal Republic of Germany contributes $24.5m. Then we come to Australia, whose contribution is $17m. This is our major interest. This is our major involvement. This should be our major interest. This should be our major involvement. I correct myself, because obviously it is not at this time. 
I make a plea that we reshape the emphasis of our aid and the emphasis of our thinking in the debates in this House to take into account the things that we need to do in the Australo-Asian region. We have a particular responsibility to our nearest neighbour, not only from our own point of view but because the destiny of Australia is bound up with the part that we play in our own region of the world. If we turn our backs on our own region or if we are inadequate in our performance in it, then we restrict our own destiny; we limit it in the future. I make these comments in relation to the measure which is before us this evening. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
1 support this measure to facilitate work on water measurement in our country. This is a small but vital part of the nation's development of its water resources. No doubt exists at all in my mind or in the minds of most other people concerned with national development that water is the limiting factor in the overall development of the nation. Sixty-nine years after Federation we are still without a national water programme. Sixty-nine years after Federation we are still without a national water conservation authority. I mention in passing that, as far as the Opposition is concerned, it is quite clear what we will do in this regard, that is, create a national water conservation authority from the ruins of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and develop a much overdue national water programme. 
Surely it is this building of skills at the national level which would have obviated one of the most disgraceful incidents in this Federal Parliament which occurred when we came to debate the water resources of the River Murray. There we had a situation of conflicting technical reports, of various reports, of differing input data and a situation in which words did not mean what they originally were intended to mean - by the dictionary, at any rate. Here we had the example which honourable members may remember of 'in perpetuity' and 'indefinitely' becoming one and the same thing. It was important that all 125 members of the House of Representatives had the technical data clearly and definitely set out in a way that they could follow and understand so that they could be satisfied in their own minds as to what was being done and what was being proposed and that it would be in the best interests of everyone concerned. I felt on that occasion that it was an insult to the Parliament that we did not have all the necessary technical data. I do not think that we have it at the present time. We had limited data that enabled us to make one decision alone when there was a number of decisions that were required - and a number of interlocking decisions at that. 
I hope that we are gradually moving further towards a rational and proper programme of water conservation. This project of stream measurement is a basic project. It must be encouraged and I am delighted to see that this measure does just that. I was delighted to hear the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  pledge his support for continuing water conservation. This is a vital thing not only for agriculture but also for all the integrated development that we must undertake if the inland of Australia is to be utilised properly. The critics of irrigation - and they have come in for a mention - have reached a new height of intensity - and they include, as my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  mentioned,  Sir William  Gunn. Fresh from bis triumphs as leader of the Australian wool industry,  Sir William  Gunn turned his attention to irrigation the other day when he said in a flight of incredible fancy that farmers should march on Canberra every time a dam was to be built. He said that every product of irrigation was overproduced and that the nation should not use tax funds to facilitate irrigation. 
So, here we have the man who, with his colleagues, has led the wool industry into disaster telling us what we should do about irrigation, telling us in effect that whole communities should not have come into being. What he was saying is this: We should not have come and now we are here perhaps we ought to go. I reject that suggestion on behalf of the people whom I represent. I am sure that all people along the major streams of the nation who have been so rubbished will reject it because they will know just how absurd it is. 
Let us be quite clear about this matter. The great irrigation schemes that have been developed in the past have been developed as an integrated part of the economy and have been designed to keep the food supplies flowing to the cities. Let us be clear that, in relation to Sydney, half of all the food supplies moving into that city originate in irrigation. Is it suggested seriously that we should play Russian roulette with the nation's food supplies by relying strictly on the climate and strictly on the chance of weather. After all, drought is endemic in our continent. There is always somewhere in Australia drought all the time. So, should not we- 
Well, the Minister has said that no one is suggesting that we should not have water conservation and that we should not have irrigation. 
Well, I have just quoted one of the major servants of the Government. 
Well, we have had the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  standing in their places and saying that all irrigation has done is- 
They are distinguished members of the Government - one a former Minister- 
They have said here time and again that they questioned the value of irrigation to the nation. They questioned its value to the agricultural sector. I have debated with them. What I am suggesting at the present time is that the critics are becoming even more - what shall 1 say - damning, and the most recent one, as I say, just the other day was  Sir William  Gunn- 
Well, he was not appointed by us. We have not been in power for 20 years. He has had many high offices. I am sure that he would not have received any of his appointments from our point of view- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! . 
Well, I accept the assurance of the Minister for Repatriation that  Sir William  Gunn is not in the Gov- eminent. I have always assumed that he was a distinguished servant of the Government. If he is not, the Minister may disown him at his leisure. I wanted to make this point: The criticism that has been made is this: It has been suggested that there have been very large expenditures on irrigation. Well, I think it should be known that, as far as irrigation alone is concerned, in the 69 years of Federation we have spent less as a nation on irrigation as such than we have spent in importing whisky every year. So, we have not made a great national investment in irrigation at all. 
It is certainly important to realise that irrigation is only part of what is done with the storage. Water must always be regarded as a multi-purpose commodity. This is what it is. That is why the suggestions that have been made from time to time that irrigation farmers and irrigation industries - that is, industries limited to the land - should be loaded with the total cost of dams are completely unreal. As a matter of fact, this is a matter that was dealt with a generation ago by a most distinguished royal commission presided over by  Mr Justice  Pike. He explored all of these aspects and, in his findings, which were unanimously accepted by the parliaments - State and Federal - at the time, said that it could not be sustained either as a practice of government or of good economics that irrgation farmers should be made to pay for the public works. This was clear. It was settled. It was done a generation ago. But we are still getting this kind of criticism thrown up in a most casual way. 
Let us see what this criticism means in practical terms. It means that Lake Burley Griffin in Canberra - a very fine multimillion dollar facility which is pleasant to see - does not need a cost benefit analysis because it is a facility, a park, or recreational area. I have no objection to it, but the absurdity of the critics is shown by the fact that if some resident of Canberra decided that he wanted to grow an acre of tomatoes and if he pumped water out of Lake Burley Griffin those critics would say that he should be loaded with a portion of the capital cost of the Lake. It is absurd. Water is a multi-purpose commodity. It has to be regarded as such. The basic works are public works, the cost of which ought to be borne by taxation revenue. Let us be clear when we examine every major : conservation structure in our nation. All of - them sustain more than just irrigation and farmers; they are sustaining secondary industry, factories and householders who turn on taps. They are multi-purpose structures and they should be regarded as such. I think this point should be made in the debate because this Bill is connected with water supplies and their further measurement for their future utilisation. 
Reference has been made to the structures that have been built and to their benefits to the nation. I think the benefits to the nation should be clearly and definitely spelt out. - Sometimes the critics claim that all they are asking- for is a proper analysis. By all means let us have a proper analysis. There is no reason why this should not be done. . For past, structures in New South Wales - the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area and the development of plans for the utilisation of Blowering water - most precise studies were made. The results were published. They were examined by Federal and State agencies. A variety of skills were brought together to see that the right and proper thing was done and to see that the plans for the utilisation of the water were sound and would return the best to the community. Of course we should have a proper cost benefit analysis. Why should we not? 1 think it is very desirable that studies be carried out and that results be published. There will have to be several of them. As the former Minister for National Development knows, the answers depend on the inputs. Let us try the various ranges of input and publish the results. There is nothing wrong with that. The decision will have to be made by the Government. There is nothing wrong with that either. That is democratic responsibility. 
Tn summation I say that the economists are a very useful tool and that economics, as a subject, is a most useful skill. The economists should be used and utilised. But they cannot make the decision. The decision is based on many imprecise factors touching on the future of the nation and on many things that perhaps are beyond the measurement of economists. I sum up in this way in supporting the Bill: I hope that in future debates in the House of Representatives we will look at water con servation as a basic need for the future of the nation; that we will recognise that water is a limiting factor in our development generally; that we will regard water as such as a multi-purpose commodity and water conservation works as multi-purpose projects; and that we will reject the kind of criticism that we have heard in the last few days from  Sir William  Gunn, fresh from his triumphs in the wool industry. After many years in control, he turns his attention to irrigation and decides that it is superfluous, that it should be ended, wiped out or phased out and that never more should we have development of this kind. That statement should be rejected completely as an irresponsible criticism by ' a discredited industry leader.' I say that most sincerely. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What was the cost of importing into Australia (a) films for public exhibition, (b) television film material, (c) books and other publications and (d) records in each of the last 5 years. 
What preference is given in quotas or duty to any overseas countries supplying these items. 
Will he ensure that Australia enjoys full reciprocity for our cultural output, including the right of our artists to fulfil engagements in the supplying country, by examining the flow of foreign cultural imports such as the book 'Portnoy's Complaint', the record 'Let me make you baby' and the television programme 'Dust Bin Men'. 
This 
Bill comes down against the fact that the Government has been in full power and control of the destinies of this nation and its industries for 21 years. The Bill comes before us after 7 months of the worst crisis the wool industry has experienced in more than a generation. It comes before the Parliament following clear and definite calls by the industry itself - uniquely united for the first time in history - for a single marketing authority to market the entire Australian wool clip. It is presented to us following meetings of thousands of Australian wool growers who voted with overwhelming unanimity for a single marketing authority to market the entire Australian wool clip. It has also a background of the biggest meeting of all, that demanded that the Government suspend all sales to foreign countries until there was a proper reserve price for the product and the run towards bankruptcy was halted. 
I emphasise these points before mentioning the action taken by both the Government and the Opposition. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  wanted some further information. I am delighted to provide it. Responding to the urgent and direct requests by wool growers, the Opposition knuckled down to the formulation of a wool plan, which was issued on 22nd May. The main points of the Opposition's 11-point wool plan are: A statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of wool growers; a reconstruction scheme to assist in the solution of problems of production and to streamline selling methods; the creation of a capital fund to act as an insurance against price falls; the authority to tackle cost disabilities in producing and marketing wool, particularly for export; a basic average appraisal price and minimum reserve prices or floor prices to be placed on all wool. 
I want to make our commitment clear before dealing with the legislation that the Government has brought down, in contrast, 4 months after the Opposition acted,  7  months after the crisis began and 21 years after taking office. We have determined that we will not oppose the Government's wool plan. We have said that this is the product of the Government's 21 years experience and expertise, the product of long months of waiting. The Government has made it clear that this is its answer to the wool disaster. The Government has made it clear to the industry that it is a matter of take it or leave it. There is really no choice. The Government has said: We have heard you. We have studied and understood the problem. This is our answer. You either have this or you have nothing.' I make it quite plain that with a disaster to cope with we have said we will give the Government the opportunity to try out its solutions. But I also make it plain to wool growers and to the nation that this legislation, this Government answer to the wool crisis, is not what the industry asked for; it is not what the growers have demanded; it is not what the Opposition is firmly pledged to do. So let it be clear that this legislation was conceived by the Government as its answer and that the responsibility for it rests clearly with the Government and not with the wool growers or the Opposition. 
Let us examine what the Government proposes to bring to birth. It represents the irreconcilable compromise between the great vested interests which help finance and usually support the Government parties and those who very often work for them, the producers, and who vote for them. No-one could accuse the Government of inconsistency in 21 years. There has been no inconsistency on the part of the Government. It has always hitched its wagon to the star of the auction system. It might be remembered that in 1951 the United States offered Australia a 20-year contract to purchase wool at 100c per lb. The Government rejected the offer. In rejecting it the then Minister for Commerce and Agriculture, the present Minister for Trade and Industry and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  said on 28th November 1950: 
The Government cannot agree to any suggestion which involves the termination of public auctions. 
So the position is that on this day in 1970 the prevailing price for wool might have been, under that long term contract, 100c per lb, but the Government refused the contract then basically because it was convinced that it would interfere with the sacred auction floor on which so many growers and their lives have been so ruthlessly sacrificed. The auction has sacrificed their interests against a meaningless charade of so-called competition, and the Government knows that for some lines there is only one client. 
This Bill is in complete consistency with the Government's unchanged 21-year-old policies and ideas. Firstly, the auction system shall remain untouched; secondly, the brokers must be assured of their return; and thirdly, the banks' participation shall be retained, and if necessary they shall receive a guarantee of the profitability of their activity. But what of the poor beleaguered wool grower? The Government says to him: 'We will start to join with others to operate at auction'. That is what it all amounts to. There are no guarantees to the growers. There are no legislative assurances and there is no direct help, except that the Government will set up 7 nominees of the Minister who will go into business, lt reminds me very much of another Government decision in similar circumstances and in relation to a similar problem. Confronted with collusion, not by foreign wool buyers but by foreign ship owners, the Government did not fight them or oppose them, but joined them, and the result is that today the Government is acquiescing in the exploitation of the wool industry by shipping monopolies that are using wool to bolster their profits, charging 3 times as much as would be charged by charter ships. In this Bill the Government does not fight anyone; it joins the system. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  says that the very fact that there is a new buyer in the field will boost returns by several cents. It will enable the Government to learn more about business, to learn more about the nation's greatest export industry, after 21 years in power. It looks like a request for a further 21 years. 
But what does the Bill insist on for the grower? It insists on a guarantee for the broker and a guarantee for the banker, but what does it insist on for the grower? The Bill is a series of pious hopes, some Treasury finance for the Government to be a buyer if the grower agrees, some vague expressions of opinion, guarantees to the brokers and the bankers, and nothing more. Let us be clear: The Bill gives the authority to the Government to co-ordinate and seek information and to buy if there is willingness to sell. The growers in a position to do so can tell the Commission to go to the devil. That is an interpretation of the lack of power in this legislation. The big corporation enterprises, of course, can ignore it. For the small grower there is the crumb that exists now in the price average plan which, in fact, benefits the broker, and which, under this Bill, leaves the door open for plain racketeering by those unscrupulous enough to use the loose and sloppy provisions of the legislation for their own ends. I say in passing that the price averaging plan probably will return to the brokers between Sim and $2m, but it will not return anything significant to the growers. 
The Bill is not the lusty child of long nurturing in the expansive womb of Government that we had been told about; it is a sickly abortion that has tittle chance of thriving. But whatever chance it has, we will give it, even to using our own expertise to try to improve it at the Committee stage. In our country there are strong and powerful forces at work to extirpate the family wool grower - to end the family enterprise. They have no sorrow or regret for the bankruptcy of thousands. These forces are firmly of the opinion that the day of the family enterprise is over. They are dedicated firmly to the corporation and to vertical integration. There is an increasing trend in Australia to the overseas enterprises coming in to control the land,own the sheep, own the broking firm, have interests in the shipping and further interests at the other end in processing. There is a complete tie-up, not in the interests of the Australian economy or the Australian family but in the interests of the exploitive forces which are enshrined in the auction system. The profitability of wool as yarn is up by 17 per cent. The profits of the mill masters in Bradford are up 24 per cent, and this is at a time when the Australian wool grower gets $2 from a $100 suit. 
Let us examine the current scene in some detail. In the past 10 years there has been a dramatic contraction in the number of wool buyers. From 30 separate mills each with a separate representative in Australia, the number of United Kingdom buyers, for example, has reduced to 3 large combines. The same position applies in Europe. The situation is that on some individual sale lots there are only 2 or 3 bids. Two-thirds of all superfine wool is bought by one single buyer and one-third by the other buyer. The Government apparently believes that the 2 buyers bid against one another in a genuine way just to keep the price up. Yet I understand that the 2 of them bid for only 1 client or on behalf of 1 client. I have not heard such a good fairy story since Hans Christian Andersen passed away. The Government continues to protest that although there is an admitted aggregation of buyers there is no collusion in buying. Even the Government will admit that prices are falling below what buyers would be prepared to pay if there was any reason for them to pay more. The Government believes that it will be able to tell within an hour or two of the opening of the market what the price levels will be, and then the Government will move in. But with daily price levels to be set does the Government really believe that this is going to work and be effective? 
The Government must know that it is necessary to enter the top and yarn market, but after 21 years in power it still says that it does not know enough about this market to do it. The Government says publicly that in the months ahead it expects confider.ee to return and prices to rise. Please God that happens. But privately the Government says this will give it time to make up its mind about rationalisation. This is a euphemism for wiping out more farms. The bleak prospect is for a few cents up and more farms going out. I wonder whether perhaps we will be left with only 20 per cent of the farms that we now have. The Government knows that there is an 8c per lb difference in price because of visual error. It knows that 75 per cent of present buyers would buy on sample right now. But the Government still postpones any meaningful reform, pleading, after 21 years, for more time to investigate. Everyone in the industry knows that sale by sample means decentralised handling - that is, country handling centres where we can put big lots of wool together, sell on sample and put directly on our own ships. This is what the growers really want, yet the Government is clinging to the auction system despite the fact that for some sections of the crossbred market there is only one real buyer. 
The Minister will appoint 7 men to the Commission. He will choose 2 growers, and he will tell them what to do. They will report to him every 14 days. If they do not conform, he can dismiss them individually. If they defy him as a Commission, he can order them collectively. So the status of the Commission is that of an advisory committee to the Minister. Two growers - carefully selected no doubt - against the rest. The selling brokers will be strong indeed. And why should they not be? The selling brokers have S600m invested in the present exploitive processes of the wool industry. If they control the Commission they will safeguard their S600m, kill any significant enterprise, and kill hope for the growers of any decentralised development across the countryside. I feel that the Government may have shown some of its real dedication - against opposition. The Government bulldozed the appointment of 2 overseas brokers' representatives to the Wool Advisory Committee of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. These representatives were both from the same company. 
It was an incredible action. The exploitive interests are fighting a magnificent rearguard action. They have their agents and I am sure we will hear from them before this debate ends. They know about selling sight unseen. They well know that when selling sight unseen comes in, when we can establish handling centres in the countryside, perhaps when we can have warehouses in buying countries, charter our own ships and standardise the whole operation, the exploitation of the grower will end and the profits will start to remain at home. 
Returning to the fiction of competition - the auction charade in relation to the Japanese section of the wool market - we find that the only 5 Japanese who travelled here, travelled together, came together and acted together. In theory they are supposed suddenly to rise, find a new enmity and fight each other, not in the interests of Japan but in the interests of the Australian woolgrower. Bear in mind that these are the only people bidding on these occasions for lines that are required by Japan. The Government, after 21 years, says: 'We do not know whether there is more demand or less demand for wool. We do not know whether there is collusion or not.' The only comment from the Minister himself was to say that he went to Japan and asked them whether they were being naughty. They said that they were not. He was reported to have been happier as a result. 
The growers around Australia tonight wanted to hear from the Government 1 commitment: They wanted a price on the product. They wanted a just return, not guarantees to bankers and brokers but guarantees to them in their trouble. They wanted a ban on exports until 45c was reached. By the banks of the Murrumbidgee, the Lachlan and the Murray they are humming a song. I thought I might pass it on to the House. It goes this way: 
Baa, baa, blacksheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full. One for the broker, one for the banks. And one for the Japanese to sell to the Yanks. 
I say that with due respect to my friends in Japan and the United States. It was once said that out of the mouths of babes and sucklings come words of wisdom. It may well be the theme song of this legislation. I am saddended by it but I certainly pledge, with my colleagues, to stand by what we publicly said we would do in relation to the legislation which the Government has introduced. We will also stand by the policy we announced on 22nd May 1970. We will do all we can to end a situation that is indeed a national scandal. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Was the Hume Weir, prior to the recent floods in the Muray Valley, filling earlier and faster than normal. 
Did heissuea statementthat the River Murray Commission was making releases from the Hume Weir operating on a flood mitigation policy based on a continuing evaluation of seasonal conditions. 
If so, why did the River Murray Commission wait until a flood situation had developed before releasing water in significant quantities. 
Is it a fact that, in the period immediately prior to the flood, Murray irrigation districts were being denied any significant improvement in their inadequate water allocations. 
It is also a fact that under thecontinued irrigation restriction policy water was held back to such an extent that it created serious flooding, damage to property, inundation of extensive areas of farmland and possible stock losses. 
If so, will he, in view of the widespread disquiet in the Murray Valley, institute an urgent inquiry as to what went wrong with the flood mitigation policy and provide an urgent answer to these questions. 
I wish to refer to clause 7 of the Bill, which relates to the membership of the Australian Wool Commission. I wish to raise a point concerning the balance of the membership of the Commission. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has pointed to the great desire of many people to have stronger representation for the wool growers. The wool growers will be represented by 2 of the 7 members of the Commission. The point which is in the minds of these people is the composition of the board of directors of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation. Five of the directors of the Corporation have a vested interest in selling and handling wool. One director has an interest in processing. To overcome the great weight of these processing and broking representatives the balance of the board of directors - five of them - are wool growers. I mentioned at the second reading stage of the Bill the concern which has been expressed at the appointments which have been made to the Wool Research Advisory Committee of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Two of the people appointed were drawn from a broking and selling firm. Great concern has been expressed at the fact that the emphasis will be on the interests of the selling brokers and not of the growers. I draw attention to this matter in relation to the membership of the Australian Wool Commission. I hope that there will be as good a balance on behalf of the growers as is possible under the provisions of the Bill. I make that point at this stage without moving an amendment to clause 7 of the Bill. 
I wish to speak particularly in support of the amendments proposed to clause 16. Members of the Commission should be above reproach. The Commission will have a great many problems to overcome and it is important that its members be completely above reproach. The 2 amendments we propose are particularly designed to achieve that result. We believe that the 

 Chairman and members of the Commission should not be in a policy making or managerial position in firms which could very well be competing with the Commission and its objectives. There is every precedent for this situation. I refer, for example, to recent legislation to set up the Australian Film Development Corporation As my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  has just pointed out to me, that legislation contained a suitable precedent to which die Minister might apply himself. In that legislation it was accepted quite definitely that members of the Corporation could not be involved in activities which could come into direct conflict with the stated government objectives for that Corporation. 
Therefore we have said that neither the  Chairman  nor the members of the Commission should be in a policy making or managerial position in any wool broking or wool buying firm in Australia or elsewhere. If they wish to engage in activities which are in competition with those of the Commission they should resign from the Commission. Under our proposed amendment the Minister would have the power to remove them. The second amendment we have proposed is also related to the probity of the Commission. There should not be any qualification in matters of local government. There is a clear position. Either a member has an interest or he has not. If he has an interest, how much interest is not relevant. He must have no interest. 
I make a plea to the Minister that he considers the 2 proposed amendments. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said, the Minister should consider them not only in relation to the possible charges that could be levelled against members but also on behalf of the Commission, to ensure that it is above reproach and that the probity of its members is unchallenged. I commend most strongly the 2 amendments that we have proposed. 
I want to pose a very clear question to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anth- ony)  relating to the operation of clause 18. The clause mainly expresses objectives. Reference has been made to the fact that the price averaging plan is incorporated in this general clause. I ask the Minister to give us specific guidance on this point. The price averaging plan is being carried on now, and it has been carried on, on a voluntary basis. It relies on co-operation. There is no power for acquisition. My colleague, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  will follow me and will state a specific example of the operation of this plan in order that we can clear up this query. I think the matter is terribly important. I am sure the Minister would agree that this is the kernel of the entire Bill. As I read it. and as I am advised, this clause is an expression of objectives, an expression of what it is hoped that the Commission will do, but this basically is a voluntary arrangement. All these arrangements rely on voluntarily given co-operation. If a grower decides that he does not wish to co-operate in any of the matters dealt with in this clause, he need not do so. He cannot be compelled to do so. 
I am asking a series of questions of the Minister and am seeking his guidance and interpretation on this essential point relating to the whole of clause 18. I ask the Minister to withhold his reply until the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has given his example. 
In relation to the amendment to strike out the term 'from day to day* I point out that the policy position of the Labor Party was made abundantly clear at the second reading stage, namely, that we do not subscribe to the view that it should be on a day to day basis. The term which is used here in the drafting of the Bill is superfluous; it is just not necessary. It states the concept twice. We oppose the provision particularly because it is not in accordance with our view of what should be done. We oppose it because we do not think that as a policy it will be workable, but we oppose it also because the provision is superfluous. I stress that. 
Moving on to a discussion of the general wording of clause 19, it has been suggested that the reserve price could vary day by day or even, perhaps, hour by hour. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has intimated that prices could vary at intervals of less than a day. I should like to know also whether different prices will be operating in the different centres because there are centres involved in wool selling at Melbourne, Sydney and other places. Is it proposed that the variation in price should be within an hour or within a day, or that different prices would operate at different centres. This is a query which has been raised. Another question relates to the wording of the clause, which could be interpreted to mean that it would be possible for a broker to buy wool and to pay for it at a particular price and that, because of the very quick variations in price, he could submit the wool to the Commission and benefit from a new price which bad been fixed. That would be a type of racketeering which would seem to be permissible, or at least possible, under the somewhat loose and vague wording of this clause. I direct the Minister's attention to these queries and ask that he consider first of all the amendment and then the queries which have been put forward in relation to the drafting of this clause. 
I want to force home here the point that under the arrangement for financing the advances to the Australian Wheat Board we have a situation in which the Treasurer can intervene if the interest burden is too low but he can intervene at the primary stage. In fact, this was done by Prime Minister Chifley at a time when he was not only the Prime Minister but also the Treasurer and the wheat industry was in trouble. What he decided to do was to reduce the interest rate and therefore the burden on the growers. Of course, the bur den was a considerable one as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony; would know in relation to the record wheat crop that we had in 1968-69. The interest due to be paid by growers for moneys advanced was S25m. So interest is of tremendous importance to us. Here we have  i  clause whereby it is proposed that the Government and the Treasurer will underwrite or guarantee the repayment of private bank finance. This means that there is no real reason to seek the money in that quarter because the Government is in fact saying: 'We will guarantee it if this is necessary.' So surely there should be a consistency about it in relation to the precedent for wheat and also in relation to our own taxpayers and our own growers The Government should go to the Reserve Bank and say clearly that it is the borrowing authority. If the Treasurer has to guarantee anyone let him guarantee ourselves, let him guarantee our own institutions, let him guarantee on the best basis for the taxpayers and the growers themselves. I think this is a terribly important and fundamental point. We are very much concerned about it and I would ask very sincerely that the Minister think again about giving a guarantee in such terms to private banking institutions when in fact we can go directly to the Reserve Bank. We can fix the interest. The Treasurer has a direct say. He can protect both the taxpayers and the growers in a very adequate way under the terms of the amendment which the Opposition has moved. 
1 make one final plea. I warmly welcome what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has said. On behalf of the Opposition, many people in the community and, I am sure, many honourable members on the other side of the House I ask that when a decision is made it be that the Reserve Bank is the approved bank. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Third Reading 
Motion (by  Mr Anthony)  - by leave - proposed: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
There has been no competition. 
Two wool buyers bad said before the current selling season that certain merchants planned to combine to force a substantial drop in prices, the general council of the New South Wales Graziers' Association was told yesterday. 

 Mr H. Gullett, the association's Canberra representative, said such a price fall had been 'precisely what had happened'. 

 Mr Gullett said the two buyers, men of repute and of conservative outlook, had asked to see him about 5 weeks ago. 
They had said they were 'absolutely satisfied' a number of overseas buyers planned to combine to force prices down. 
He had seen the buyers again yesterday, and they had said events had confirmed their fears. 
Not only had European and British buyers been involved, but the Japanese during this selling season had been 'very ready learners indeed,' they had said. 

 Mr Gullett spoke after a councillor and member of the board of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation,  Mr D.  J. Asimus, had moved that the association ask the Federal Government to establish, as a matter of extreme urgency, a reserve price to cover the whole Australian clip. 

 Mr Gullett said the 2 buyers had considered that if the downward trend in prices continued, as they expected, fine and superfine wools would suffer the same decline as other types. 
This article shows that collusion had been taking place under our noses at the recent sales. How can this reserve price plan really stop this practice? The brokers are still able to play a complete and comprehensive part in wool selling and buying. There is no restriction on them at all. In fact, 1 believe that their position has been strengthened as a result of this Bill. Someone has said that this is really a brokers' Bill. This Bill will establish them securely in the framework of the wool industry. There will need to be a lot of constant checking and investigation week by week to see that this Bill will not be exploited by such people. The Bill is really a half measure at best; it is a nervous hesitant attempt at a solution. The Minister hopes for an increase of a few cents in wool prices through this voluntarily based reserve price plan which could be in some senses be a toothless tiger. 
I would like to refer to another important piece of evidence from Professor Keith Campbell who told a recent conference of the industry: 
No matter what wool marketing scheme this country ultimately gets, its benefit is going to be primarily in the direction of stabilising prices rather than raising them. 
Professor Campbell, of course, is Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture at Sydney University. At this conference he was speaking on the subject 'The Economics of Wool'. Professor Campbell said that the effects of the cost price squeeze in the wool industry generally did not deter graziers from investing in their properties at least up to the 1966-67 financial year, but it appeared that farmers and graziers were now relying increasingly on bank credit. Another professor who spoke at the conference had the temerity to tell the stoney faced wool growers: 
Having studied the production of natural materials in competition with synthetics and substitutes, 1 am certain that wool cannot survive the competition of synthetics. 
So the poor old wool growers are getting it right left and centre from professors one of whom has had the nerve to say that wool has no hope of winning the battle with synthetics. The wool men and the wool industry contribute $800m to our export income. This is apart from the injection of spending power that wool makes possible in the country and the cities. But the 80,000 wool men are at the mercy of the bankers, wool buyers, overseas manufacturers and pastoral firms. The total rural indebtedness today is estimated at $2, 000m and a big chunk of this must be made up of the indebtedness of the wool industry. Those whose properties are heavily mortgaged are crippled by high interest rates, which are I suppose the highest in many generations. The small wool producer is hit the hardest. 
The tremendous influence of the middle man in the industry is illustrated in my following remarks. The difference between the price received by the wool grower and the price paid by the consumer is scandalous. For instance, let us say that the wool grower receives 27c a lb for  his  product. The wool passes through the processors and the manufacturers and comes out at the other end in coloured knitting wool which is sold at the outrageous price of $5.75 a lb. This is completely scandalous and outrageous. The price paid by the housewife for knitting wool - not clothing or other made up material but ordinary coloured knitting wool - at $5.75 per lb represents an increase of 2,211 per cent over the return of 27c per lb to the grower, who must take all the risks. That situation is indicative of how the manufacturers and processors batten on the wool grower  and  keep him  flattened  out like a snake. 
I have expressed my point of view on this Bill, and that of the Labor Party. We feel that it is at least a start on the road to a better scheme or a reserve price plan with more teeth in it, as ours would have. We would not be asking for a referendum on our scheme if we came into office. We believe that a government should act as a government. Believing that our price reserve plan with provision for total acquisition would be the right thing for the industry, we would have the courage to bring it down. That is our policy. It would give greater security and hope to the wool grower than the scheme encompassed by this measure. The weakness of the proposed scheme is that it allows for voluntary participation. Growers can use it or not, as they wish. So can brokers if they wish. 
Finance to the extent of $115m is being provided for capital expenditure plus 19m for operating costs. The Government is doing its best financially to back the scheme and to guarantee to growers a reserve price, but it still has grave weaknesses which we wish to emphasise in this debate. We wish the scheme well. We hope that it will succeed beyond our expectations. So do the hard-pressed woolgrowers. We do not want to let the Bill pass without offering considered criticisms. Our committee has met frequently on this issue, and members of that committee have spoken in this debate. For members of the Country Party to try to make out that they are the only ones who know anything about the wool industry is a fantasy and an outrageous insult to honourable members on this side of the chamber. 
Can the Commission buy it on the farm? 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 22.  (1.) The Commission may. with the approval of the Minister, given with the concurrence of the Treasurer, borrow money from an approved bank or from another lender for the purposes of working capital of the Commission and give security over any of its assets for the purposes of any such borrowing. 
The time has passed midnight but I rise to speak on this matter with no sense of apology because to me and to half the nation it is a pretty important one. We have the incredible situation where half the nation is showing a situation of buoyancy and presenting a shining face to the world, with some exceptions. The other half of the nation is in trouble. I want specifically to pinpoint 2 factors associated with this measure. As indicated by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of the Bill is to remove any obstacle that the Bankruptcy Act may present to the operation of compositions or schemes of arrangement entered into under State or Territory legislation providing for assistance to farmers in respect of their debts. 
I have heard my distinguished colleague from Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the other Queensland member who has spoken, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  talk about the situation in respect of Queensland legislation and the position of that State. A state of crisis exists in the drought areas of Queensland. 
I rise to put to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  who, I am delighted to see, is here for the debate on this Bill, that we have had operating very successfully in New South Wales for 2 generations the Rural Reconstruction Board. The Rural Reconstruction Board in the State of New South Wales has brought about a revolution in the countryside, where it has been needed. It has been a revolution of reorganisation and of restructuring - all of the modern terms - but in fact the Board brought about such changes as were revolutionary and were successful. The Board was successful in the south-west reconstruction scheme in New South Wales. This scheme is a model for farming reconstruction wherever it may have to be implemented in our country or in any other country. 
Now, as a member of the House of Representatives, I find a Federal Act being proposed through a Federal Bill which seems to be saying: 'We will validate that legislation'. This is a cause of surprise to me. I would like the Attorney-General specifically to direct his attention to the statutes which have established the Rural Reconstruction Board in the State of New South Wales, under which it has operated for 2 generations and is operating now. I hope that he will comment and perhaps particularly will indicate why this legislation may be necessary in relation to those statutes and what effect if any this legislation will have on those State statutes touching on the Rural Reconstruction Board of New South Wales. 
This is a most important matter for New South Wales. 1 must admit that, as a layman, I have examined the Bill and I have not been able to relate what it says to what I know of the State Act and the State statutes. I would be grateful if, in his reply at the conclusion of the second reading debate, the Attorney-General would direct his attention to the State statutes governing the Rural Reconstruction Board and pronounce his opinion on them as the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth of Australia in relation to this legislation and the legislation which has existed for 2 generations under which the Rural Reconstruction Board is operating so successfully in New South Wales. I make this almost as a plea at the committee stage of consideration of this Bill, but I know that we do not wish to prolong the proceedings after the hour of midnight. So, I put the matter at the second reading stage so that the Attorney-General may apply himself to the queries I have raised and clear them up. 
Having posed that question, I direct attention to a broader matter in relation to bankruptcies or potential bankruptcies that was raised by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin.  Now,  Mr Askin  is not a man who is in touch at all with the rural scene. In fact, he is distinguished and famous for a statement that he once made very early one morning - and I forgive him for it, I suppose, on the basis - when he was telephoned and asked to comment on the fact that 2 inches of rain had fallen in the Sydney area. At a very early hour in the morning he said: 'Oh, this is a wonderful thing. It is a tremendous thing. It will mean millions to the countryside'. I think that by the time he got out of bed and reached Parliament House he had realised that the rain had not extended past Parramatta. I forgive him. He is a suburbanite. Two months ago in the New South Wales Parliament he was asked by a colleague of mine the honourable member for Murrumbidgee,  Mr Gordon,  whether he would apply himself to the needs of the Rural Reconstruction Board and whether he would take note of the fact that the Board was no longer able to meet the requirements of the situation in the countryside. The Premier replied: 'All is well. There are no problems because there has not been anyone who has applied who has been refused.' I am sorry to say that the 
Premier was misinformed. I do not say that in any political carping sense. 
As a matter of fact, I am reminded that the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in this House possibly 12 weeks ago addressed a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  about the state of the countryside. He asked: 'Has the Prime Minister directed his attention to any requests from the State of New South Wales for assistance?' On that occasion the Prime Minister said: 'I have not had any requests. When I get one I will consider it.' I hope I have not done the honourable member an injustice. 
The Prime Minister said that to his knowledge he had not received a request and therefore he was not in a position to give a reply to the honourable member who asked the question. Tonight we meet under different circumstances. The Premier of New South Wales, after saying that there were no real problems and that no-one had been refused, now says: 'We are in a considerable difficulty because of the crisis in the countryside. We are in need of money.'I confirm that statement with all the sincerity that I can summon up at this hour. It is true that there are possibly 100 unsatisfied applications at this moment. Another 100 people would be in the queue. There are people who desperately need the expertise and the money which has been available in the last 2 decades from the Rural Reconstruction Board of New South Wales. At the moment the Board is not in a position to satisfy the needs of the people from every part of New South Wales who are standing in that queue. I did not hear the interjection made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I will be delighted to deal with it if he speaks up a little later on. 
I am always glad when a man has eaten well. 
It may not be well but it is sufficient. At the present time there are families who wonder whether they are going to eat at all in the future. They are wondering about the needs of their children. We have reached the situation where the Rural Reconstruction Board which has been a magnificent instrument in the countryside of New South Wales for 2 generations has reached the end  of  its resources. It is not in a position to open the door and admit further people. Where the New South Wales Government and Public Service are involved obviously the Director of the Board and the servants associated with it cannot invite a man in, sit him down, listen to his needs and say: 'I am terribly sorry. We are broke. We are bankrupt ourselves. We cannot help you.' They have a formula. They say:'We are not in a position to assist you because of your relative needs.' This does not mean anything. It is a good formula for saying: 'We have first, second and third priorities. We are not in a position to assist those following the people who are first in the queue.' I do not blame the Board or the Director, but a request has been made  to  the Commonwealth by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin,  who, asI say, is a well known suburbanite who has now at least recognised that there is a need in this sector for this agency. 
On behalf of all sides  of  the Parliament. I ask the Attorney-General, who is tonight with us, to take to the Prime Minister this message which I am putting forward. I am sure that it is not an exclusive message. I am sure that if the Attorney-General doubts me other people from all sides of the Parliament will rise and say: 'Yes, this is a valid message'.  I  ask the AttorneyGeneral to go to the Prime Minister and say that the Premier  of  New South Wales has asked for assistance because the Board has run out of money.  It  is a crisis situation. I make a sincere appeal  to  the AttorneyGeneral, as the representative of the Prime Minister in the House tonight, to take to the Prime Minister the plea thatI have made on behalf of a lot  of  people - not one Party or another - who are in trouble and ask that the applications be dealt with as urgently as possible so that the work of this Board can be revitalised.  It  is a wonderful instrument. I am sorry that Queensland does not have something similar. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Have shipping costs from Sydney to Darwin doubled in the past month. 
If so, is this due to the introduction of container vessels. 
Is it a fact that conventional ships previously carried cargo at half the cost of container ships. 
If so, will he inquire into this undesirable development in shipping costs. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. What action has been taken to renegotiate the Anglo-Australian trade preferences following the British Government's action in imposing import levies on a range of Australian primary products? Will the Minister tell the House what steps, if any, have been taken to adjust the present pattern of Anglo-Australian trade, with the balance now running at about $350m a year against, us? If no action has been taken, will the Minister now act urgently to renegotiate our generous preferences in trade, shipping, banking and insurance in order to prevent disaster to Australian industries, people and towns if Britain enters the 
European Common Market and further discriminates against our canned fruits, fresh and dried fruits and cereals. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry the following question upon notice: 
Can he state the average F.O.B price of Australian made cars exported during 1969-70. 
What was the average amount of tariff protection represented in the cost of a standard type car fabricated in Australia during 1969-70 
What was the total value of the protection in that year. 
What amount per employee engaged in the motor car industry in Australia does this represent. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
it is a fact that in some localities such as large areas north of Wentworth in New South Wales radio reception is not available. 
Are the present 101 broadcasting bans adequate to meet the present requirements of radio coverage; if not, is there a need for further development of these bands or some other development. 
What arrangements have been made to date for the introduction of frequency modulation. 
If no arrangements have been made, will the Government give urgent consideration to frequency modulation broadcasting and its introduction in order to improve existing broadcasting standards and till the gaps which exist. 
Is he able to give the (ft) number and (b) names of nations in Western Europe and in the Americas which have frequency modulation broadcasting. 
asked the Minister for Primary' Industry, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the prices of chemical spray materials in New Zealand are as much as 50 per cent lower than those in Australia. 
If so, does this give New Zealand orchardists a considerable advantage over Australian orchardists. 
ls he able lo say whether the difference in price is due lo the Government of New Zealand permitting the entry of spray materials duty free and, in other cases, by paying a subsidy to producers  to  keep costs down so enabling orchardists to compete on export markets. 
Will he order a -review  of  -he  competitiveness  of  Australian orchardists, giving particular attention to the cost.of chemical sprays. 
Will the Government -consider extending assistance to Australian orchardists similar to that enjoyed by the New Zealand orchardists. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many wool buyers operated at Australian wool auction sales during each of the years 1960 to 1970 and from which countries did they come. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is Australia at present represented overseas by officers of his Department, who are not Australian citizens by either registration or naturalisation. 
If so, how many officers are involved and what is the citizenship of each. 
asked the Minister for Primary- Industry, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the annual conference of the Western Australian Farmers' Union adopted a motion requesting the removal of the nitrogen subsidy. 
If so, has this resolution been conveyed to him. 
If he has received the resolution has he replied to it. 
If so, what were the terms of '.he reply. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  at the second reading stage, in response to a query I put to him, indicated that the assistance which will be extended under this Bill will also be extended to independent schools. Clause 3 of the Bill indicates that capital equipment of an educational nature will be  (Education) Bill  171 
I am pleased to follow the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I agree with him when he says that we are the victims of a great many racial myths. [ have always found it a source of amusement when I have had to sign an immigration form for entry to the United States of America, for example. I have always been asked  whether I am a Caucasian. I never quite understood why I should be related to the Caucasus which as everyone knows is part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. When I have explained to the poor immigration officer who had put the question that I was not really a citizen of the Soviet Union he has said, 'No, it does not mean that'. I always asked what in fact it did mean and it was always explained to me that it means that I am more or less white. This would depend on how much  sunbaking  I had done. Let me be quite blunt about this: If this is done on anthropological grounds the poor old United States is a little bit out of date. T have always explained to the immigration officers in great detail - I am happy to be patient with them - that if I am an Aboriginal I can be quite black and I am also a Caucasian anthropologically speaking. When this has happened the immigration officer has looked at me with some horror and has said that apparently Congress had not heard about it. This may be its trouble. It may be some of our trouble too because these are simply movable myths. 
To be more specific in relation to the measure before us, this Bill comes down against a background of widespread questioning of our immigration programme. I want to say at the outset that the new provisions for migrant education are long overdue and most welcome. My distinguished colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has said that the Opposition will not oppose this Bill. Of course we will not. We on this side commend the Bill. What the honourable member for Grayndler has said by way of the amendment is that what the Bill provides should have been done before. I think it is not a bad idea for us to acknowledge that even collectively as the Commonwealth Parliament, and more specifically the Government, we have been guilty of a sin of omission in this regard and therefore I support the amendment. 
There is no doubt in my mind that there has been pressure for this kind of action for  20  years. In my own constituency of Riverina in 1 class in I school there has on occasions been only  2  children with what might be called an old Australian background. I mean children who were born in Australia and who have grandparents who were born in Australia. This did not create any great tensions for those  2  Australian children but of course this is not the problem. The problem facing us is that the young people who come here have to face up to great difficulties at this critical time in their young life because of an inability to tackle examinations and instruction in the English language. Let us not confuse this difficulty with any of the general problems of integration. I want to make this distinction and I hope the distinction can be made in this debate this evening because there are  2  separate problems involved. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  made some references with which I will deal in passing a little later but one of the things about which he should be assured is that even in a location such as the one I have described with an overwhelming migrant intake which must have come about to give a minority of 2  Australians in the  1  class, where there is a healthy decentralised community the problems of integration can be overcome. This has been done very successfully in the Mumimbidgee irrigation areas. There we have the heaviest concentration of migrants in any inland areas but we also have the highest percentage of citizenship of any major migrant intake area in the nation. This has been demonstrated by the findings and investigations of the Department of Immigration. 
It has been said that the supreme test of integration is marriage. I do not want to defend that proposition.  1  might not even agree with it. But if we accept it as a measure of integration it is interesting to note that I marriage in  3  in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area, that central area which I mentioned, is between people of different backgrounds. I think we ought to be quite clear in our minds that when we are talking about the difficulties children have in tackling the language and in preparing themselves for the skills they should have in a modern industrial society we are talking about something a little different from integration. One might think that one follows the other, but there are  2  different approaches to the question. Even with the ramshackle machinery we have had for  20  years to care for the young people who come to this country we have still managed, in a good healthy environment, to be able to obtain the maximum -  1 do not say optimum - degree of integration compared with any area of migrant intake in any country. 1 want to make that point very clear. 
At the same time other factors in the education of children should be taken into account. It is impossible in our country in the 1970s to achieve the degree of education which is necessary for progress in our society unless there is the stimulus to learn at home. That statement brings us to the question of the quality of life. We have to do more than just look at the children's education in the schools. We have to look at where they are. I want to draw attention again to one of the failures of our own programme. The failure is associated with the fact that we are pouring people into overcrowded, overcentralised capital cities which are becoming increasingly polluted both in the atmosphere and in the spirit. The problem is exemplified in south Sydney where half the people in this most important area have originated from 3 areas 10,000 miles from here. The other half of the population is made up of deserted wives living in high rise dwellings, service wives without their husbands and refugee Aboriginals from the depressed countryside. It is into this incredibly fragmented society that we are putting young migrant children. It is an impossible situation for their learning and their settlement and yet that is where they are. I pay a tribute to the local authorities which struggle valiantly to do their best. The schools with their inadequate structures are unable to cater for the large numbers of young people that come in from outside. They struggle valiantly. Everyone does his best. But there is an inbuilt difficulty in such localities as that. This applies to every major city. It applies to all of the suburbs, which are overtaxed and overcrowded. So the fundamental problem is not going to be solved even by this welcome measure. The fundamental problem is that we are putting migrants and Australians into situations fraught with dangers for the future of our people. This has to be rectified if we are going to overcome the tensions, the pressures and the inequalities that have been suffered by migrant and Australian alike. 
I understand the problem very cleary when it comes to questioning the migration programme. I think we should refer to this because after all we are debating a Bill which provides money at this time of supposed austerity to do some thing in relation to migration when there are voices raised  in,  the community saying: 'Stop it. Finish it. We must have no more of it.' They are very dogmatic voices. I spoke to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  before I rose in this debate. I was going to say something harsh and much more pointed because I understood that the Government had already decided to make a significant cut in the programme while an investigation has just been launched to find out whether it is beneficial or not. That would have been the act of a reckless cowboy riding into a town for an overnight stand. But the Minister said: 'No. We are not going to cut it. We have not really made up our minds yet.' I welcome that remark, because there is no point in having an investigation of the facts saying: Whether it is good or bad we are not going to wait for the results. We are going to make a cut.' I accept the Minister's assurance that the cut has not been made in those terms. I will say in relation to the debate on migration that in Australia we do not have the sort of information- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I feel that the point has been missed, but if we do have better after dinner attention the honourable member may pick it up. The point 1 was going to make was whether we are going to spend this money on a programme which it has been advocated should be reduced or obviated altogether and set to one side. The Opposition has indicated through the honourable member for Grayndler that when we vote we are going to be quite unanimous about accepting this legislation, with the stricture and with the criticism for its tardiness. Nevertheless, we want it. We have wanted to see it for a long time and we are going to have it. But surely to goodness in this national forum we have to relate the action we are taking to the reality of whether we are  going  to continue this programme. At this stage we have not the information before us to be dogmatic. We are not in a position to say that migration is inflationary or anti-inflationary in our situation. If honourable members wanted me to make out a case tonight I could refer to the experience of Great Britain, France, Canada and many other countries. I submit that we have not reached this stage, so let us pursue the investigations which are under way before we become dogmatic. 
The problems of the children of migrants and the education of migrants are bound up with the demographic distribution of population in our community It is quite incredible that the demographic centre of Australia has not changed since the census of 1911. Modesty almost prohibits me from mentioning that the demographic centre of Australia happens to be in Merriwagga. 1 will not say what electorate that is in. This is a finding of the Bureau of Census and Statistic: which establishes that since the first census in our country in 1911 there has been no significant change at all in the distribution! of population. This is related to the problems of migrants, because in a situation of over-centralisation and overcrowding the problems are multiplied. These are the problems that we face in relation to this measure. 1 suggest that when we have an investigation of what we should be doing with the migrants coming into our country we should also direct attention to the locations where they are settling. I am not saying the locations to which they arc directed, because there is no direction made. There is an inevitability in our present economic and planning situation - or lack of planning situation - that they will end up in an overcrowded location. I wanted to make that point very plain, because when we apply ourselves to this problem we should not limit our considerations for the classrooms and the capital expenditure needed to enable children to be properly educated. The problem is related to the overall disposition of our population and to the declining quality of life of Australians and migrants alike. I wanted to make that point clear. Before I get to the specific questions 1 wish to ask of the Minister on this measure I shall refer in passing to the matters that were directed to me personally by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr Mclean who described my comments in relation to some migrants in the community as quite asinine. 1 take it as a compliment from the honourable member for Boothby that he should refer to my comments in that way. It is important for the morale of migrant children from wherever they come - and it was indicated that we now have migrant children coming from Asia, Europe and indeed all the continents of the world - that there is no misunderstanding in the minds of those children about the attitude of the Australian people to them. This is why 1 addressed an appeal while I was overseas recently to the Minister for Immigration to reject completely and very bluntly the statements made by the Victorian Immigration Minister, Mr Vance Dickie. Wherever I went - and I followed in your footsteps in some regards, Mr Speaker, and I realise you cannot comment from the Chair - he was a monumental embarrassment to the nation. He caused resentment amongst the most conservative Australians who said that this man did not speak for our people, did not speak even for the Government and, I am sure, did not speak for the Minister for Immigration who sits at the table. T would never insult him by suggesting that he had adopted such an extreme attitude as to talk about 99 per cent of those with dark blood being rejected- 
It is just a passing reference. 1 want to say te the Minister that he should say to every migrant child under this system that he rejects such Goebbels-esque nonsense. I am sure he will because it should be done. I do not want to go further into the remarks of the honourable member for Boothby except to say one sentence in repudiation. He said that the references I had made to  Mr Dickie,  the references I had made to the equality of people irrespective of the texture of their skin and their background, were asinine. It is his right to regard them as asinine. I regard his criticism as a compliment but I do not wish to refer to it further. In relation to the measure before us I ask the Minister whether this assistance will be given to students who end up in either the public or independent sectors. 
This is an important matter of policy and principle and I would like him to clear this up. 
Thank you. I appreciate that, for it is important. The other point I wanted to make was in relation to new arrivals. The Minister has indicated there will be facilities for those who are in numbers? The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  referred to the fact that wherever there are major numbers there are also individuals. I direct the Minister's attention to the fact that they are individuals and I will give one quick example. A young man who arrived from Venezuela was proficient to matriculation standard in all subjects, including Spanish and Italian. He reached Australia on the eve of his matriculation examinations but was not able to tackle the examinations in English. This was an isolated case. Where does he stand under this legislation? He came with 2 languages to matriculant standard. He was not able to make it in English immediately. Where does he stand as an individual as against the mass attack in the capital cities? I ask the Minister whether he has directed his attention to the absorption centres in Israel which has taken in more migrants per capita than any other nation in the world, lt has taken people - starting at the top - from rural, professional and urban walks of life. They enter various categories of interest and professionalism and in 12 weeks they are able to go into their callings whether they are doctors, plumbers, dentists or what have you. I ask the Minister whether he has made a study of this and whether he will apply the great knowledge gained there over 21 years. These are some of the questions I wish to pose in relation to this n: measure 
In summation, 1 hope that this measure will go some way after 20 years towards relieving the hardship and disadvantage of many migrant children. It does meet the struggles and desires of people in migration, the Good Neighbour Movement. I am particularly pleased and I know they will be particularly pleased that this measure has come down. Let us admit our mistakes in the past, say we are sorry and will do better in future. I commend to the Minister the thought: Delayed we might have been but let us unite in doing better in the future. 
I want to associate myself particularly with the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in the first instance and the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  in the second instance in relation to the delay in bringing forward this Bill. There has been a year's delay. This delay touches on the fundamental development of the nation - the planning for national development. In the year that this measure has been upon the table and we have not been able to get around to dealing with it we have had a wonderful debate on flags of various types that occupied our attention for more than 2 days. We also had a discussion on the conscience of various honourable members of this House. We had a day's debate on somebody's passport. There was a tremendous amount of trivia but we did not have this measure before us. I echo the protests entered about this delay. It seems to me to be rather sad that the priority accorded to national development by the Government in relation to the Parliament is that it comes after the greatest and most monumental pieces of trivia we have had before us in the last year.  1  wanted to make that point plain and to support the observations made in that way. I also have every sympathy with the expressions of concern for those who have been waiting for protection and compensation planned in this Bill. 
I want to deal with the overall meaning of the delay and the overall attitude to this basic tool of national development. This Bill is designed to produce the raw material of decisions on national development. I realise that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  presented to Cabinet a year ago a document which was designed to be the basis of an overall national plan for development. It has not got very far in 12 months. 
The Opposition joins with the Government to ensure that this Bill will go through. But of course the overall national development plan which is the blueprint for the future has not got very far at all. My questions on the notice paper suggest that there is no great enthusiasm for planning the future of this nation in an orderly and progressive manner. I suppose that I should not be surprised that there has been a year's delay. However, this is one small step forward. We need this raw data in order to make the decisions which must be made in relation to national planning. 
The Minister referred in his second reading speech to the fact that as maps have become available they have been used in assessing Australia's resources in minerals, water and forests, for many administrative purposes and for broad planning and general development planning. I have used the Minister's terminology. lt is true that these resource maps are the raw materia] for decisions in many respects and in many spheres. It is indicated that the data that is collected by the Department of National Development is integrated with the data provided by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Water, Power and Geographic Branch. The Minister also referred to the fact that that branch arranges primarily through State authorities for the recording of statistics on surface and underground water. 
In relation to the various resources there is one omission from the Minister's second reading speech and I would like to direct attention to it. If we are to have a series of resource maps those maps should also cover soils, including their type and recommended utilisation. There are many reasons for this but I do not want to go into all of them at this stage. I think that those of us who are concerned with irrigation development and land development generally will recognise the fundamental importance of soil maps and the data that should be integrated with any set of national maps or charts. There was no reference at all in the Minister's second reading speech to this very important aspect of data. I agree with all of the other matters that have been referred to including the mineral resource matters and topography. We must know our topography; surely that is basic. 
References were made to geological and geophysical surveys and to the fact that the data from these surveys would be integrated in the maps which are to be produced by the Department of National Development. This is all to the good but I direct attention to the omission in relation to soil maps and I do so deliberately because matters touching on the science of soil involve dramatic developments in understanding the qualities of soil and its uses for many different purposes. I could give examples. I do not think that I should do so. They would be technical matters which perhaps would not be relevant to a second reading speech on a measure of this kind. But I would draw attention to the fact that in the State departments - I cite the New South Wales Department of Agriculture and the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission - and also in the Division of Soils of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in recent times - indeed in the 12 months in which no action has been taken on this matter - there has been a considerable addition of data and information which should be related to any basic production of maps of resources of the nation. 
I would like to draw attention to this omission because, irrespective of passing difficulties that might be associated with the rural sector and irrespective of the almost casual criticisms that have been made of irrigation development, the rural sector will continue to develop and expand and irrigation will prove to be the fundamental bastion of primary production in the future of this continent where drought is endemic. So I draw attention particularly to the need to integrate the data contained in the maps which are being produced with the data which is currently being assembled and evaluated by the various State departments. I repeat that the year's delay in this matter is reprehensible and is a matter for condemnation. When we have been called upon to deal with so much trivia at such great length it disturbs me deeply to find that an important measure of this kind has been put at the end of the queue. 
I would certainly join with my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson, in supporting the measure. I express the hope that the omission to which I have referred will be made the subject of action with the appropriate State agencies to ensure that any issue by the department of basic data is as valid as it can be with the state of knowledge that we have at the present time. I would also express the hope that the data which will be contained in the maps that are being produced and in the reports that are being compiled will provide the raw material for national planning. I look forward to the day when the Minister comes into the chamber and says: 'I now have the honour of tabling a national development programme so that Parliament may debate it and come up with its combined opinion, in its wisdom or otherwise'. 1 gather that the Minister has certainly set out to do this. We have not yet got it. The delay in that regard is continuing, but at least we have overcome one of the hurdles in this measure. 
That would be wonderful. That would be very healthy indeed. I say to the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  that I hope that we would not have to change the government just because there was incredible sloth in such a measure as this. I would hope that in the 18 months remaining we will see some action in regard to the development of the nation. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is Australia at present represented overseas by officers of his Department of various levels who are not Australian citizens by either registration or naturalisation. 
If so, how many officers are involved and what is the citizenship of each. 
-I present the following petition: 
Tothe Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled the Humble Petition of 95 Aboriginal citizens of New South Wales respectfully sheweth - 
Whereas the Aboriginal people in the Balranald area being in a serious stale of neglect with regard to - 
lack of housing for persons living at present in old car bodies and makeshift humpies, and 
inadequate, substandard and overcrowded houses for a significant percentage of the population, and 
there being no employment for the majority of those able to work, both male and female, and 
there being no security of tenure for residents living on the Balranald Reserve. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
Adequate high standard housing for the Aboriginal people of the Balranald district on sites which are acceptable to the Aboriginal persons concerned whether the sites be in the town or on the Reserve, and 
employment opportunities in the district for all those able to work, and 
full legal title to the land on the Balranald Reserve for those residents of the Reserve. And your petitioners, as induty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the Stales for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I suppose there should be a word of congratulations that the Government has suddenly discovered inflation. Certainly it has increased the bond rate. It has increased the interest rate; it has increased indirect taxation. - The Government has permitted the development of more doubtful speculation in our country today than we saw in Chicago during the regime of Al Capon: In the last 6 months I have met 6 new millionaires and 1 might say that their millions were not based on productivity but on paper speculation. Indeed, the Government has surrendered the control of the pace and development of the nation to monopolists and speculators to such an extent that we have become notorious across the world as having the most hag-ridden economy in the West. We have more monopolies, more restrictive trade practices and more outside domination .han has any other advanced and developed country. The Government may have only just discovered inflation in Australia out the people in the countryside have been suffering from this cancer for some time. 
Inflation in the past 7 years has added 20 per cent to the cost of the primary producer. In fact inflation has added more to the cost bill of farmers than wage increases. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  who spoke tonight as one in the Parliament, blame wages and wages alone for the disasters of the countryside but every economic authority in the world recognises that rising wages are a symptom of inflation and not the cause. Professor Colin Clark put this clearly only this week, and for once he is in step with practically all of his economist colleagues. The  Deputy  Prime Minister came to the Parliament this afternoon to tell the country people that they have a crisis. He told us that farmers are suffering, that businessmen and employees are also suffering. This is hardly news to the countryside. The countryside is well aware of its problems. It is well aware of the cancer of inflation. I raised those problems in my very first speech in this Parliament and the then Minister for Primary Industry merely smiled. He did not smile this afternoon.  His  prescribed cure for inflation was to cut basic services. He joined his Prime Minister - I am not sure who joined who in this exercise - and they spoke together in support of the concept of cutting vital aid to the States. This means that there will be a cut in funds for hospitals, schools and basic services. The  Deputy  Prime Minister joined the Prime Minister in blaming the wage earner who is so well off in affluent Australia today that he has to send his wife to work to keep his children at school. The  Deputy  Prime Minister, whs claims to be the voice of the countryside, boasted of the cut in investment allowance to manufacturers. But this cut could seriously injure the expansion of decentralised rural industries. 
The Government cuts services to people, attacks the wages of people, maintains and sustains the most vicious monopolies in the world, though they have robbed primary producers of their just returns, but leaves untouched the real causes of intiation - the faceless villians of the piece; the speculators of the 1970s. This Government has created a milk bar economy staffed bv topless speculators. They hustle their wares and they have had great success in doing this. But the Government has taken no action and has not given any direction lo the economy. It has permitted the plundering of our country and its resources. The figures tell the story. At the time the Prime Minister announced the $75m CUt.: in Commonwealth services there was announced in Sydney on the very same day the proposed construction of another office block complex on The Rocks, symbolically, to cost $500m. 
At a time when the school systems are slipping further behind we have the spectacle of private office buildings - the new skyscrapers of the paper empires - going up at a rate twice that of government buildings and offices. The investment in new offices to house more clerks and more bits of paper in the past financial year 1969-70 amounts to about $300m across Australia. These were the approvals and the commencements are not very much less. Yet there is no move to deal with this non-productive expenditure. At a time when the hospital and medical systems are creaking with inadequacy we have oil companies putting up 30,000 service stations, one on every corner and sometimes 2 together. They open them and they close them. One-third of these service stations have opened and closed. But still the building and speculation goes on. How much inflation and speculation lie in this direction? This can be gathered by the fact that in the Australian Capital Territory 10 years ago the top price paid for a service station site was a bit more than $100,000. One might say that this was quite enough. But this year for one site alone $320,000 was paid by an oil company. In the Australian Capital Territory $7.4m have been, put into land alone in the rash of service stations that have been constructed in the past 10 years. 
International oil company profits have created the most powerful private governments in the world. The oil companies have continued unimpeded. The shipping monopoly has taken $150m from wool growers alone in surcharges in 2 decades. They charge 4 times as much to take the product out of Australia as would apply under open competition. But their monopolies have continued to do well. The army of paper workers has increased. The number of paper handlers has increased by 16 per cent in Sydney, for example, over all other categories of employees in recent years. 
A basic cause of inflation is contained in these figures to which I ask honourable members to listen well: In the past 5 years, the percentage of the work force engaged in handling money and property has risen by 31.25 per cent - 50 per cent more than those engaged in production. So, those in production increased by only 21.25 per cent, but the paper explosion created a 50 per cent increase in the burden to be carried by those in production. The result is thousands of men and women sitting in skyscraper offices exchanging pieces of paper at an ever increasing rate and hoping to God that the nation's productivity is adequate to keep them in a style to which they are accustomed now. If it is noi, the Government's solution is simply: Sell a bit more of the nation to bridge the gap. 
While the uncontrolled expansion of nor productive spending by the monopolies continues without check, the Government has failed also to adjust the trade situation which has contributed to the strains in the economy. Our trade with the United States runs at 2 to 1 against us. Our trade with Britain is more than $350m against us each year. Our preferences are $200m against us in addition. That is the difference between what we give in preference and what we receive. On top of this, we have a massive outgoing to overseas interests amounting to $l,227in in invisibles in 1968-69 on such things as freight insurance and dividends on investments. This is a jump in one year of $200m. So, we have massive increases in payments overseas for services that we could provide for ourselves - in a single year, a S200m increase in that direction. Yet this has gone without a comment from the Prime Minister, without a comment from the Treasury and of course deadly silence from either the present Minister for Trade and Industry or his mentor. 
Let us examine the waterfall of payments to overseas companies. The amount rose from $27 lm 5 years ago to $505m last year. Overseas investors receive in fact 30 per cent of Australian company profits. We have to use 16 per cent of our export income to pay profits and dividends to the overseas controllers of much of our economy. Instead of massive wastage on non productive development in Australia which has lead to speculation and inflation, the Government should have been using what it is pleased to regard as hot money to make its own overseas investments to buy into outlets for our exports to claim even a modest share of expanding overseas trade. We are not doing that. But, no; the Government has not only slept on the job but also has connived with the interests which support it to leave the speculators untouched. What a pathetic gesture it is to cut basic services while ignoring the syphening off of$1, 227m in payments for foreign services that we could provide ourselves, ignoring the profits and practices of international operators in shipping and oil, ignoring the worsening balance of payments with Britain and the United States of America and the lack of balance in our out of date preference system which is costing us $200m a year. 
What is the Government's reply? It is to cut basic services by the States and to order a reduction in the incidence of lawn mowing in the Australian Capital Territory. In these figures and in this performance lie the explanation as to why one of the richest countries in the world has bad roads, overcrowded schools, inadequate hospital buildings and 1 million poor people with half of its rural industries in crisis. The indictment of this Government is that it has allowed the economy to be plundered and the nation to be made poor in its riches. Government members have a parrot cry. 'Where is the money coming from? they ask.Where is it coming from?' The question before this Parliament tonight is not 'Where is the money coming from?' but 'Where is the money wealth of the richest country in the world going?' While the money pours out, the overseas penetration of our country continues to such an extent that people are beginning to ask. 'Who owns Australia?' One hundred million acres of Australian pastoral and agricultural land is now overseas controlled. Three new projects are mooted, the largest of which is 2.5 million acres, planned by overseas interests to grow crops that they are seeking for their own purposes. 
This brings me to the quintessence of Government failure of our country and of our people. Side by side with inflation, we have depression in the countryside. I want to challenge in these last moments of my speech- 
Yes. My challenge is to the Government to tell the  truth  about its rural policy. I challenge the Government to table the report on the rural crisis which it commissioned for circulation to the States. This is a report which is in the hands of State Premiers and Ministers responsible for agriculture but a report which has been rigidly suppressed as far as this Parliament is concerned. Let us see what this secret document says. It expects a large number of rural bankruptcies. The report in effect welcomes rural bankruptcy as an effective method of rural adjustment. This Commonwealth Government secret report states that the best single form of adjustment is for farmers to leave, for properties to get bigger, for companies to replace family enterprise and the encouragement of farmers to sell their properties and to move to the cities. This is the secret formula for reconstruction with the added ingredients of higher interest rates to prevent - and I quote from the report - 'any rise in land values and to discourage too many farmers in trouble from staying on their farms'. So, this is the confidenctial guidance from the Commonwealth to the States. Cut down the number of farmers, get them off their land and into the cities, promote company enterprise and replace the families. This is the report of the secret commission on rural reconstruction. I challenge the Minister for Trade and Industry, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and their minions to release the report and to defend it. 
Yet, the very rural crisis is a product of Government mismanagement. The Government panicked about wheat. It allowed international cartels to dominate the wool industry. The Government has taken no steps whatsoever to help any situation which has caused grave hardship in the countryside. This is the situation that we face at the present time. The report is clear. It has been circulated. The challenge to table it remains. 
It is obvious that some honourable members opposite have not seen it. They are so upset by it that they are doubtful whether it exists. I suggest that they ask their Ministers where it is, who authorised its distribution and to table it in the Parliament. They should then ask their Ministers whether they will stand here and defend it and not cower away in their secrecy. The Government will have a rural reconstruction scheme which will empty the countryside. Its Ministers have not the courage of their convictions to come in here and to say so. I challenge them to do so. 
The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have come to the Parliament on this occasion with a series of words which have ignored the basic fundamental inequalities and difficulties facing the nation at the present time. They have given us cuts in Commonwealth expenditure totalling $75m - that is, $75m against the situation which I have described. Where do they live? Where do they go home to? What papers do they read in their offices? What kind of advice have they ignored from their own official and from their own skilled people? They must live in a world which does not exist if they believe that the nation can be restored to a healthy situation by reducing the incidence of lawn mowing in the Australian Capital Territory, by some minor cuts in the Public Service and by denying the States the right to provide the basic amenities which are enjoyed by other people outside Australia. This is a poor philosophy. 
The Prime Minister entered the debate tonight most unexpectedly. It was good to see him in the Parliament. We gave him a rousing welcome. If the Prime Minister has the courage of his convictions, let him test what he said tonight with the country tomorrow. Let him say to the people tomorrow: 'What is your answer to the Gorton philosophy?' I would suggest that the country would give him the answer that the Opposition gives him tonight - no confidence! 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the New Zealand health and quarantine authorities have decided to establish a total quarantine station for that country. 
If so, will this mean that New Zealand primary producers will then have access to a wide range of genetic material which is not now available to them or in Australia. 
Where and when is the New Zealand quarantine station to be established, and is it intended that Australia will rely on this station. 
Has Australia any plans for a total quarantine station along the New Zealand lines. 
If so, (a) do these plans embrace a quarantine station and associated laboratory which would obviate Australia's reliance on centres 12,000 miles away, (b) where would it be situated and (c) when would it be operative. 
Has the present absence of facilities prevented the introduction directly of new blood in the animal industry since 1958. 
Is the lack of facilities stultifying Australia's genetic material in plants and animals and denying access to advances in breeding being enjoyed in many cases by competitive countries. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of European citizens of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
Whereas the Aboriginal people in the Balranald area being in a serious state of neglect with regard to - 
lack of housing for persons living at present in old car bodies and makeshift humpies, and 
inadequate, substandard and overcrowded houses for a significant percentage of the population, and 
there being no employment for the majority of those able to work, both male and female, and 
there being no security of tenure for residents living on the Balranald Reserve. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
adequate, high standard housing for the Aboriginal people of the Balranald district on sites which are acceptable to the Aboriginal persons concerned whether the sites be in the town or on the Reserve, and 
employment opportunities in the district for all those able to work, and 
full legal title to the land on the Balranald Reserve for those residents of the Reserve. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Are the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Australian Wheat Board awaiting a letter from the non-recognised representatives of the nonrecognised 700 million Chinese inquiring as to the possible purchase of wheat from Australia? Is the Minister concerned because the letter has failed to arrive? In view of the failure of the 56 wheat growing countries to reach agreement on prices for the next 3 years and the inroads into trade with China made by our great and powerful friends and allies such as Canada, Japan and Britain, will the Minister, in the interests of Australian trade and Aus tralian producers, consider opening a trade office or even a Wheat Board agency in Peking until the battle of conscience over China and party preferences has been resolved by himself and his colleagues? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On what date was the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited (a) established and (b) wound up. 
What Government was in power when this company was established. 
What was the aggregate profit of the company during its period of operation. 
Is it a fact that the interests and assets of the company were sold. 
If so, to whom were they sold and what were the reasons for the sale. 
Why was the company originally established. 
How many rises in the prices of petrol were registered in the 5 years (a) before and (b) after the company ceased to exist and what was the nature of the rises. 
-1 want to direct the Committee's attention to a factor which should have the priority attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in determining the approval of the advances which he is seeking tonight. We are being asked to authorise moneys totalling $5.7m to 19 different departments. Presently these departments, for which the Treasurer is seeking finance, are affected, I should imagine, but I am also asking the question, by the austerity programme which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has announced. So the first question we must pose to the Treasurer in Committee is whether these advances have been affected by the Prime Minister's austerity programme. If so, in what way have they been adjusted? If they have not been adjusted, how then can we deal with the matter in the light of what the Prime Minister said, because he said that there is to be a general cut. Is this reflected in these advances? I think that the Treasurer should make plain what is to happen to these advances in relation to what the Prime Minister said. 
There is another perhaps more important matter, and it is that before the Committee makes a decision as to whether this Government expenditure is to be authorised, the question should surely be posed in the Committee as to whether these advances can be varied by the application of Treasury action on certain matters. Here I would draw attention to certain matters. I refer to the basic one which I pose as a question in relation to the statement I have just made, and it is that there is a waterfall of money from Australia to overseas interests - companies and countries - in our monetary and trading relations which now amounts to S2,600m a year. This is more than  2i  times the national revenue in the time of Prime 
Minister Chifley. Two and a half times the national revenue in those days is going to outside companies and countries at the present time. 
I think this is the time in Committee to ask the question as to whether the Treasury has applied itself to this great outpuring of wealth abroad in relation to the revenue for which we are being asked this evening to support 19 departments of State. Let me just spell out my queries specifically. The outpouring of wealth abroad from Australia- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  I point out to the honourable member that the Committee is not being asked to appropriate money; it is not being asked to pay money out. The money has already been advanced. It has been appropriated in a Bill which came before the Parliament previously. This is, one might say, a statement of the actual expenditure and a division of that expenditure into the departments which are set out in the statement. This will not be affected by and has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's statement recently regarding reduction in Government expenditure. If the honourable member will read the wording on the front of the document entitled 'Advance to the Treasurer' he will see that it refers to a statement of heads of expenditure and the amounts charged thereto, and the amounts appropriated for 1969-70 are set out on page 3 of the document. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I was not confused what we were voting on the appropriation; but what I was concerned about was the application of the funds. I understand - and perhaps we can get further guidance on this - that the Committee of this House is being given, in effect, a progress report as to what the advances are required for and what presumably we will do with them. This touches on 19 departments of State. Surely if there is any significance in the Committee having this document at all it is to ask the Treasurer whether in fact he may vary the emphasis of this money or the. utilisation of it. 

 - Mr Chairman, I appreciate very much the explanations. I think they have helped the Committee considerably, and I say that very sincerely. But if I may, 1 should like to phrase my queries in relation to what might have been done with the money for which the Treasurer is seeking approval. In virtual fact, that is what we are doing. I am sure that the Treasurer would like the Committee to approve of what he has spent on 19 departments of State. Therefore, we might pose a series of questions in relation to the emphasis which might have been applied to the utilisation of these funds. Again I come back to the fact that we have within the 19 departments of State for which advances were required a series of key agencies of State which I submit should have been turning their attention, under the direction of the Government, to this waterfall of payments, which I have just mentioned, amounting to $2,600m a year to overseas corporations and interests for services rendered in one form or another. What I am saying is: Should we not in relation to the operation of these key departments of State be asking them in fact to minimise the expenditure which I have just indicated is running at $2,600m a year? 
To make my point I will have to explain what the figure is made up of, what it is, Otherwise the Treasurer will wonder just what it means. So if I might be permitted to explain just what this is made up of, I think he will be able to see the relativity to the departments of State that we have before us this evening in relation to the advances needed to keep them going. Let me cite the major sum here, which is 1, 227m for the so-called invisibles in the balance of payments covering dividends on investments, insurance and other payments such as shipping charges. The figures on these items represent the outpouring for 1969-70 which, I might say, is very relevant to the expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, because this also is for 1969-70. So for 1969-70 we have this figure of $l,227m for invisibles. The interesting thing here is that it represents an increase of $200m on the previous year. This is money which is found by the nation. Irrespective of whose pocket it comes out of, it comes out of ihe collective pockets of the nation in effect and goes away. Perhaps again I should explain that that figure of $l,227m, which includes an increase of S200m over the previous year, is in fact a deficit. We do have some income ourselves from the invisibles, but the total outpouring is approximately $3,680m. 
Here we have a very key area of consideration because some of these departments are involved in an interlocking way. We have this great increase of $200m over the previous year in the outpouring of money for services provided by overseas corporations and bodies - services which I submit we could well provide ourselves. So this is the largest part of the waterfall, ft includes $505m payable to overseas bond holders, which represents 30 per cent of all the company income of Australia. It takes 16 per cent of our export income to meet the Bill. The next figure is around $200m, represented by the differences in benefits we receive from the old imperial preferences and the benefits we give. The final factors in making up the figures I have given are trading with the United States, which is running at $408m in deficit, and trading with the United Kingdom which is running at $454m in deficit, and it should be remembered that the greater the amount of overseas investment- 
In the final moment I just want to say that what I was trying to point out to the Committee was that the funds in this advance could very well have been applied in the various administrative agencies involved to limit what 1 regard as an excessive waterfall to outside interests. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I accept the point that was made so courteously and well by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and I shall reapply myself to the Public Accounts Committee documents. However I take the opportunity to pose a question to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in relation to the vote and the money which, as has clearly been explained, has already been expended in the administration of the Department of the Treasury. The query is a simple one. Is the Treasurer satisfied, in relation to the Treasurer's Advance and the other moneys appropriated by the Parliament, that he has a team adequate to guide the economic life of the nation at this time? It would seem that the economy is geared to rootless speculation, and there is certainly a need for more Treasury action than has been undertaken so far, particularly in relation to some of the matters which have come before the Parliament this evening. Some of these were mentioned by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I ask the Treasurer whether, in relation to the money that has been expended by him and the advances and appropriations that have been made, he is satisfied that the Treasury is fulfilling the role of guiding the Australian economy for the sake of Australia and its people and is not acting as an umbrella for unbridled speculation and uncontrolled exploitation by home grown and foreign monopolies. I draw his attention again to the figure that I gave him for the waterfall outside Australia, that is, $2, 600m, which seems to me to be a matter of some concern. 
I take this opportunity as a second occasion to raise it. In two or three days I will raise it again because I feel it is a matter to which the Committee and the Parliament should be giving priority. It is a matter that we should be spending most time on. I make no apology for raising it again. I raise it in the context of this measure to ask whether the Treasurer is satisfied that he has the necessary advances. If he does not have adequate advances, appropriations and staff and the necessary means, let him tell us, because in fact the Treasury has not been the guiding hand in the Australian economy which we have needed. So I am putting thi* in the context of what has been reported to us. 
We have a sum of money for the administration of the Taxation Office, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board and the Bureau of Census and Statistics. Are these adequate to reach the determinations that we must reach in relation to such matters as inflation, for example? I feel that the Treasurer has an opportunity in the Committee and within the context of the matters that have been raised to say whether the money that has been appropriated already - I got the point that was so clearly and well made by the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee - has been expended wisely. I am asking the Treasurer whether, within that context, he is satisfied that he has the physical means at his disposal to give the guidance to the economy which it obviously so desperately needs, and also the means to tackle the waterfall of $2,600m. I have stated that figure At least six times tonight because it seems to me to have an overwhelming significance for the Parliament and [he nation. 
Has the Treasurer got the means? Have the advances been adequate? Is the structure adequate? I think we are entitled to ask that. After all, the Parliament has been told what money is being sought and what advances have been made. Surely to goodness, if this exercise is to have any meaning - 1 take the point well from the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, and perhaps we should be more concerned about the work of this Committee - we are entitled to ask whether there is a need for this advance finance. I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  will apply himself to that point. But 1 feel that within the context of the debate and the concern of the Committee this evening, it is still incumbent upon the Treasurer to reply to the questions which have been posed in a serious way by me tonight. 
This is one of a series of so called anti-inflationary measures which the Federal Government has brought down, lt is" trie only measure which has come before the House. Lights have been turned out and the incidence of lawnmowing has been reduced in a purely administrative way;  but this is the only measure that we have had specifically before the Parliament, and it has been brought down in the name of controlling inflation. One of the points that- 1 particularly want to make is that the measure seems to come down to us in the context of 'a panic on the part of the Government/' The- Government's sudden  discovery of  inflation is most touching. The inflationary forces in the community have been there for some time, but suddenly the Government says: 'We must tackle them; we -must deal with them'. The climate of confidence, which is so important to the development of the nation, is being attacked by the' Government itself. The Government seems :to flounder as to the measures it should "take; the measures which it has determined upon seem quite extraordinary. 
The stance of the Government is that the basic services provided through the States must be cut back, because that is what the decision means' when the Government says that the Stares Shall not have more funds or shall  apt  have adequate funds, as they see it, to go ahead with the building of hospitals and schools and providing all the basic amenities which are enjoyed in an increasing way by other countries. But no, the Australian community must stand still because the Government says that we are in an inflationary  situation, lt says'  that these basic amenities and their expansion create inflation, and that part of the cure is that the Government should cut down on them. The other part of the cure, or the major point which seems to have been made by the Government and its supporters, is that the Government should attack wages and conditions - that there should be restraint. There are no across the board references in the legislation, but there are continuing references to the wage earners of Australia as though they were the best off in the world and as though theIr standards were superb and magnificent. Yet it is well known that if a man wants to keep his family in a reasonable state and wants to sec his children educated the best contribution he can make is to send his wife out to work, and that is what is happening across the nation at the present lime. 
These are the two prongs of the Government's attack upon inflation - a cut in basic services provided through the States and an attack on wages and conditions. Surely to goodness this is the surest way to drive the nation down the road to a real economic crisis. It will create a lack of confidence and the Government will then have to turn around and say: 'Look, isn't it awful? Look at what is happening. Look at what we have done. We will have to have a rescue operation.' 1 seem to remember that this was the pattern in 1962. That brings me to the point that the original legislation was introduced in 1962. In his second reading speech on the measure now before us the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said: 
The investment allowance was introduced in 1962 at a lime of declining employment, slow economic activity and uncertainty a.-, to the outlook for the balance of payments, lt was one of a scries of measures designed to stimulate demand and restore confidence in the future growth of the economy . . . 
The reason given by the Treasurer for the withdrawal of this allowance is that the economic conditions which led to its introduction do not exist today. 
The economy of this country is divided clearly and sharply into two parts. In past months the Treasurer has stated frequently that the economy was overheated and that this was causing concern. 
That may have been so in half of the economy of the nation. But the other half of the economy, that is the export earnings of the rural sector, has not been overheated; it has been in a state of deep freeze. 
There is a continuing crisis in the rural sector. There is growing unemployment. There are great difficulties. I might say that the difficulties of this sector are important not only to that sector but also to the good health of the nation as a whole. It is not just a matter for the 10 per cent of the population who are engaged in primary industry. What happens in this sector concerns the nation as a whole because this sector earns half the nation's exports and provides 90 per cent of the nation's food and fibre. This sector is not responsible for earning just 10 per cent of the gross national product or employing 9 per cent of the work force. It is in fact half the nation in real terms of earning. But there is no reference whatsoever to that sector in the Treasurer's second reading speech. The overall assessment which he makes is that there is a growing boom. He says: 'You know, the economy is doing well; it is over-heated. In fact, it is so different from 1962 that we have to withdraw this allowance.' That is just not true. I do not for one moment suggest that the Treasurer was deliberately misleading the Parliament. I think that perhaps he has overlooked half the nation, and I would direct his attention to that area. 
There is a continuing crisis in the countryside; it is not improving at all. Unemployment figures in some country towns - even some of the best ones - are up 20 per cent. The effect on machinery has been reported by the firms concerned. The reports of the city based industries which supply the countryside and our exporting industries indicate that there is a stale of deep freeze in the countryside. So the answer to this proposition is that even if there is any excuse for withdrawing this allowance from city based industries, there is no excuse at all for withdrawing it from country industries. 
I have understood well that this Bill does not touch primary producers as such, but I am not talking about primary producers; I am talking about decentralised country industries. Let us have a look at what is happening regarding decentralisation. The use of this word creates almost the same effect as mentioning Mecca; whenever it is mentioned everyone bows. Whenever decentralisation is mentioned there is tremendous obeisance from the gentlemen on my left who are members of the Australian Country Party. The word decentralisation' is used with sheer reverence. Everyone pays lip service to it. 
What is actually happening in the Commonwealth sphere, in relation to decentralisation after 70 years of federation? I will tell honourable members. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  informed me last year that there had been great strides in this direction. He recalled that at the Premiers Conference in July 1964 the Commonwealth and the States had decided to set up a committee to further decentralisation. This was the year of the great leap forward apparently. This was the first time that the Commonwealth had directed its attention to decentralisation. But what has it done since 1964. which is 7 years ago? That is a long gestation period. Let us see what the birth looks like. Well, it has come. The Committee has met three times. Honourable members will be glad to know that the last meeting about which I have been informed was on 7th February 1969. There is action for you; there is this dynamic young nation at work. After 70 years there has been one committee which has had three meetings, the last one being in 1969. This is 1971. I think I had better mention that in case it has been forgotten by the Administration. But what have we got? We have no report yet from the committee, let alone action. There is just no report, and there is no finality on any plan at all. So after 70 years of lip service to a concept we have done absolutely nothing. 
I can speak oh this measure with some personal knowledge. The industrialists across the countryside, honest as they may be, were hopeful that they would receive continuing encouragement. This was one piece of encouragement which they shared not, as a decentralisation matter, with their city cousin. We are now told we arc tremendously well off. We are told that wage scales are tremendously high and that everyone in the country is rich. It is amazing. Even if I accept the Government's picture of life in the cities of the nation - I am not too sure that the people in the cities will accept it - it does not apply in any shape or form in the countryside today where, as 1 say, there is under-employment, unemployment and a drop in the business index. 
There is a real crisis of survival for many people, not only on farms but also in businesses and decentralised industries and among employees themselves. Surely to goodness when this measure was being contemplated there should not have been written into the Treasurer's second reading speech the fact that everything had changed and that economic conditions were such today that we did not want to encourage the re-equipment of manufacturing industries which were then at a low ebb. He said that we do not need now to restore confidence. That is precisely what we need to do. We need to restore confidence in the countryside - the confidence in half the nation. We need to heat up the ice box, because that is what we have got. I know, because I live in it. 
When I come to Canberra 1 am very disturbed to see the lawns not mown, the lights going out and the water spout reduced in height. I am not quite sure, but 1 think that is what has happened. But ali these little measures and gestures of tackling the fundamental disequilibrium of development in Australia have been made. What I am concerned about is that the incentive for half the nation in terms of our export income and in terms of the real production of wealth is being withdrawn. Here is an incentive which is a modest one. I feel that sufficient consideration has not been given before withdrawing this incentive - and it is an incentive. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  and the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who preceded me said that perhaps the incentive should not have been brought in as it was - that if the Government wanted to give an incentive to a particular industry there were other ways of doing it. I do not want to argue that point. The decision was made by the Government. It was brought in in a time of general recession, to stimulate. Now the Government says we are overstimulated so we must reduce ourselves to what? To a static situation. 
I am going to ask the Treasurer whether he has considered this matter in relation to the countryside and in relation to the deep freeze that we are in. I ask him also how he can justify an across the board decision which will penalise both those who wish to become better in terms of productivity and some of the giants of industry who do not worry very much and who are not terribly concerned. There are many segments of Australian industry which are anxious to improve their productivity. I would have thought that any incentives in a situation of. inflation to improve productivity would have attracted support. I cannot understand an across the board statement which says: 'No. We are happy with productivity. We do not need to worry about it in this sector. Therefore we are withdrawing this incentive to up-date and to improve.' I : cannot understand the approach there. I cannot understand how that decision could have been made. I make a sincere appeal that when the Government looks at a measure such as this and decides on its withdrawal it should consider the whole of the nation and not half of it. I submit that, in bringing this measure to the Parliament, only half the nation is being considered, and I doubt whether it is being considered wisely at that. 
I rise to second and strongly support the motion moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  that a national water resources and constructing authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority, be established by the Commonwealth to carry out works of great national importance. This is a most important motion and I would have hoped that the House would have been crowded and that this Parliament would have been enthusiastic in applying itself to this basic matter of national development. It is rather a tragedy that in 1971 the nation seems to be turning its back on its own development. The lack of interest shown in the motion this morning is an illustration of this. If we are not up to developing our own nation, there are many other nations that will be quite happy to do it for us, but they will buy it in the process and therefore control it. 
This important motion now before the House seeks to update Australia so that it will catch up at least with the United States of America which more than 70 years ago enacted national water legislation. The 3 great fundamental needs for development in this country are, firstly, national water legislation that must come about in this Parliament; secondly, the establishment of a national authority such as is envisaged in this motion; and thirdly, the drawing up of a national water plan, so that the kind of fragmented approach to development which we have seen in the past will no longer apply. The sort of situation I want to refer to, particularly in my opening remarks, is that which has occurred in the MurrayMurrumbidgee area. This should not occur in the future. The situation is that those 2 great rivers both have significant irrigation settlements and both have a great capacity for development and further development. Yet at the moment there is a distortion in the relationship between the 2 rivers because the industries, settlements and people along the Murray, and I particularly refer to my own electorate, are on the edge of disaster in that they are operating on water allocations which are based on the fiction that the Chowilla Dam has already been completed. In other words, the whole of their ration, the whole of their inadequate allocation, is based today on a dam that does not exist - a dam on which we spent $6m. 
That dam is further away from construction at the present time than it was when the legislation first came before this House. The proposal now is to build the Dartmouth Dam. I do not want to go into all the background at this stage. No purpose would be served in doing that. At the moment we have an offer, which is a generous compromise, by the Premier of South Australia to end this deadlock. I appeal to the Minister to accept the offer of the compromise which has been made and to break the deadlock. The Minister said 2 or 3 days ago that the. ball was in the court of the Premier of South Australia. That is no longer so, because the Premier said: 'I will appropriate the money. I will go ahead with Dartmouth. All I ask is recognition of my right' - and after all he is the Premier of a sovereign State - 'to apply myself to a dam in my own area, namely Chowilla, in the future.' Surely this is reasonable. 1 ask the Minister to accept that compromise. 
I might say that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who is seeking to interject does little service to the River Murray valley in his persistence in trying to divide people. I ask him to forget for once petty politics and apply himself, at least on behalf of the people he is supposed to represent, to having this compromise accepted so that we can get on with the job and end the present deadlock. 
I have made my point quite plain. I reiterate my appeal to all honourable members. I hope that this compromise will be accepted. The distortions I referred to between the Murray River and the Murrumbidgee River are caused by this situation of some desperation in the south. The Southern Districts Irrigation Council has been concerned to see an end to the squabbling and haggling and it is very pleased that we have reached the stage of the possibility of compromising action. I wanted to say that on their behalf today and I hope that everybody comes to the party on that basis. 
Probably the worst single domestic decision of an Australian government was the Government's decision to demolish the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and for that it will forever be damned. What is tragic is the consequence that that decision has had. I suppose that at the present time across the world in Asia, the United States, the Middle East and throughout Europe there are thousands of engineers who are doing a job servicing the needs of other people in other countries when this country needs them. Those people have been scattered and the Authority itself has broken up and in its place we have only a limited instrument. There is an urgent need for a national authority on water conservation. If the experience of any other country in arid zones of the world means anything we are lagging by 70 years. The dispersal of our skills across the world is, I. think, a tragedy for Australia. Of course we have the little people in our nation who say that we cannot possibly develop it. that we do not have the outlets, the need or even the will. If we do not have the will to develop this continent let us finish the humbug, put the country on the market and sell it and let us share the profits. 
In relation to irrigation I am pleased that the Minister mentioned the Division of Irrigation Research of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation with which I was associated for a very long time. The Division of Irrigation Research brings several disciplines together in research and in engineering and also a team, which we have had from time to time, skilled in economics. It is an unusual team but at least it has come up with some constructive answers to some of the problems of national development that have worried us. I commend to those who have an interest in national development a study of the papers and findings of those in that Division. It could give them a refreshing outlook on some of the problems of development which we face at the present time. 
One of the paradoxes for which Australia is becoming notorious is that in a continent in which drought is endemic we have a debate which questions whether we have too much water conservation.  1  suppose that this sort of doubt has led to the suspension of even the proper investigation of the great dry of the Darling River. There was the concept of a Darling authority and a Darling basin development which was the most exciting development project in southern Australia. At that time the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who has now left us and gone to his reward, said that he was interested in supporting it and at another stage the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier of Queensland indicated they were also interested but before any finality could be reached  1  left and the other  2  gave up. I do not know why, but the great vision was set to one side. My complaint is that it was not even investigated. The closest we came to any sort of investigation was a series of pontifical pronouncements by the Minister for Conservation in New South Wales who relied on data at least  30  years old. He said: 'No, we could not undertake some of these works, lt is just not possible'. That is poor and inadequate. We need to investigate in a proper and validly technical way the development jobs remaining to be tackled in this nation. 
I  return to the approach to irrigation. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has been referring in this Parliament to the shortage of land when we have a largely unoccupied continent. We now have a new rash of critics who are frightened that we have too many people when we have reached probably  one-sixteenth of our potential. One of the greatest myths which we should tackle now is the myth of national expenditure on irrigation. An examination of completed irrigation projects in every State since the nation came together in  1901  indicates that our total public investment is less than S400m. That means we have been spending on a national level at a rate of less than $6m a year. We spend more each year in importing Scotch whisky. We should demolish the myth that this nation has made a major investment in irrigation. Tt has not. Yet casual critics of conservation have been calling for a moratorium on dam construction when they do not know what they are saying. The total expenditure on new water projects now under construction in Australia amounts to $729m. Of that amount $432m was primarily for urban water supply and the remaining $297m was for projects such as flow control, salinity control, and some existing town water supplies but only a minority proportion for purely irrigation purposes. 
It could be assumed that critics of irrigation over the years have been successful in limiting the national investment in irrigation because there has been so little of it. What return does the nation receive from irrigation? First of all, assured food supplies. Australia irrigates about 3 million acres or about 0.1 per cent of the land mass of Australia and from this small area of the continent has come in most years of the past 2 decades a quarter of our gross agricultural production. For example, 30 per cent of our fruit and vegetables come from areas under irrigation. Irrigation production has been the linchpin of price stability in the cities. A Treasury White Paper published last July indicated that the most stable factor in a situation of rising costs was foodstuffs, that is, foodstuffs which are fresh and unprocessed. In addition, during the worst years of drought in the nation's history the cities continued to receive and enjoy constant supplies of good quality food at comparatively stable prices. All this was made possible to a great degree by irrigation. For example, half of all the foodstuffs moving into Sydney originate in irrigation areas. 
In a country where drought is endemic it would be playing Russian roulette with the food supplies of a nation to leave them to the vagaries of natural rainfall. Irrigation has made a major contribution to the gross national product. Irrigation industries have been responsible for feeding into the gross national product for some time more than $ 1,000m annually. Of course, the secondary benefits which are so much discussed have been many. Irrigation has also pointed the way to urgently needed improvements in efficiency in production by showing what can be done, for example, in animal production with the help of irrigation. This is supplementary irrigation. I would stress, of course, that the references to irrigation are not limited to defined government areas or in fact to irrigation districts but to all of the purposes for which we need to use irrigation. 1 refer to defined areas, districts, supplementary irrigation, irrigation from bores and the public and private sectors. 
We have had some magnificent examples of how irrigation helps to achieve balanced development. I might say that in my own area the Murrumbidge Irrigation Area acts as a great food bowl for our cities. In fact, 1,500 tons of food can move out of the MIA each day, providing ilb of food per day per head for the entire population of Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. This is no mean contribution to the stability of life in the cities. The other point that I wanted to make relates to the application of cost benefit analyses to the various projects which come before this Parliament from time to time. A national water authority would be properly geared in the economic sector to deal with these matters because there is no reason not to have the fullest and most searching economic analysis of every major project that comes before the House. We have never had it in this Parliament but we should have it in the future and the national water authority which I and the honourable member for Dawson support would help to bring it about. I appeal for at least consideration of it by all members of the House of Representatives today. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What amount of the $5m Devisa Kredit aid granted to Indonesia this financial year has been used by Indonesia to import Australian goods. 
What proportion of these goods consisted of primary products. 
Of the Devisa Kredit aid (a) how much has been granted since the inception of this form of aid, (b) how much has been used and (c) what percentages of primary products were involved in each of the years concerned. 
I just want to point out briefly that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  speaking on behalf of the Opposition, has been completely misunderstood by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  We have two major points with which I hope the Minister will deal quite specifically and without allowing any extraneous matter to enter into the debate at the Committee stage. The first thing that we are concerned about is that the Nambucca people should have the right to participate in the benefits of the S9m scheme. The second point put forward by the honourable member for Dawson on behalf of the Opposition is in relation to other rivers. What form of approach will the Government take if our amendment in general terms is defeated? Will it exclude these rivers from the scheme? 
What we are anxious to do is to open this scheme to these people in a general way. We are not saying that anyone should or should not be forced to take part in it. What we are saying is that we have a $9m scheme and we are concerned because there is an authority which has already moved, which has shown an interest in and a desire for flood mitigation. If the Government defeats the Opposition amendment will these other rivers be excluded from the scheme? Will it be necessary to introduce new legislation specifically for Nambucca? Our second point is this: In relation to other streams, other rivers and other desirable mitigation schemes, what course will need to be followed? I think the Minister should tell the Committee at this stage exactly what is in his mind and the Government's mind in relation to these two major points. I think he can see what we are trying to do. We are trying to be helpful and constructive on this issue at the Committee stage. 
 J should like to make one final point to clarify the Opposition's position in this matter. What we are proposing is in no way binding on the local authority concerned. What we have said, in effect, is that should the current investigations prove that there is a firm basis for a flood mitigation scheme and the council concerned decides that that basis is acceptable and it wants to participate, it should be able, under this legislation, to proceed. We are not by any means attempting to take anything away from the basic decision of local government. We are trying to ensure that, if local government at Nambucca makes a decision to proceed, under this legislation it can do so. That is the only point that is before the Committee. 
I rise in this debate to fulfil 3 major tasks, the first of which is to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  on behalf of the Opposition. I want to refer particularly to some difficulties in the interpretation of history which seem to have occurred in the course of this debate. I want to deal with the role of the former member for Cowper,  Mr Frank  McGuren. Before I do that it would be as well if I reminded the House that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in his second reading speech said very bluntly and simply - I am grateful for his brevity on this occasion - that the Bill is concerned to meet a request from the State of New South Wales for a grant under the Water Resources Development Programme of up to $9m for assistance with flood mitigation works on 11 New South Wales coastal rivers. A little later he said - and this is a point to which I want to draw the attention of the House because it is concerned with the history of this matter and perhaps what we should be thinking about for the future: 
A fundamental feature of the arrangements is that the level of assistance to be provided to the local government authorities who are, of course, representative of the land owners and other people  who are most intimately affected by floodings, will depend upon the amounts provided by the authorities themselves from their own resources towards the cost of flood mitigation works. 
The Stale is to subsidise local authority expenditure at the rate of $3 for Si in the case of the Hunter River and $2 for $1 in other cases. The Commonwealth assistance will match the State contribution. 
The beginning of this great effort to arrive at this measure was perhaps on 8th September 1962. I refer to that date because it is not a date which relates only to a Labor Party or Opposition move but also - I say this with charity - to a Country Party move in this matter. On that date the Grafton Branch of the Australian Country Party wrote a letter and I want to read an extract from that letter which is already recorded in Hansard. It reads: 
Now that flood mitigation councils ure operating on several of the north coast rivers the value of the jobs they are doing is becoming more clear. The nation stands to gain much from the money invested in such works and this Branch resolves to approach the Federal Government with a request that they contribute on a 1 for 1 basis with the State Government to give the councils sufficient finance to expedite their programmes. We therefore ask your assistance in placing this request before the Federal Government. 
That letter of 8lh September 1962 was addressed to the then honourable member for Cowper,  Mr Frank  McGuren. On 4th October 1962 he moved that the Government, as a matter of urgency, do something along the lines suggested by the Australian Country Party's Grafton Branch. That motion was defeated by one vote. It was defeated after .the whole of the Opposition supported it - after many organs and members of the Country Party in thai region had supported it and had in fact asked the honourable member for Cowper at that lime to raise it and work for it. 
The important aspect in this matter is the principles which were enunciated by the present  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party. In relation to efforts made by  Mr Frank  McGuren at that time.  Mr Anthony  - I use his name to establish clearly that the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the present Leader of the Country Party is  Mr Anthony  - said on 4th October 1962: 
Yet this member for Cowper comes here and has the audacity to say that the Commonwealth Government should give money for flood control works. 
He was horrified. The Deputy Prime Minister went on to say: 
I am very sensitive about this mutter, because the county councils are being hoodwinked into thinking they should press the Commonwealth Government for money, . . 1 think that is clear enough. In fact the present  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Leader of the Country Party was at that time opposed to this entire concept. He would have opposed every single tenet contained in the Bill now before the House and also the terms of its introduction by the Minister for National Development. In fact at that time he was talking about the sort of thing contained in this Bill and its concept when he said: 
This would create a precedent for all time and the Commonwealth would be. obliged to enter the field of water conservation and of flood mitigation. 
In other words at that time there was a complete opposition by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Leader of the Country Party to this sort of measure and indeed to all similar measures. The honourable member for Cowper at that time,  Mr Frank  McGuren, and members of the Opposition stood firm and they pressed the case for legislation such as this. I suppose I would be lacking in charity if I did not congratulate the Minister for National Development, for defying all these things in history anld coming forward with this measure which we support. 
As my distinguished colleague says, the Minister has seen the light. Having put the historical record straight, I move on to what is happening at the present time. There are some things that would be better to have cleared up in relation to this measure. The honourable member for Dawson referred specifically to the need for flood mitigation works on the Nambucca River. The present honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  dealt with this suggestion. 1 do not want to do him any injustice and if I misquote him I hope that he will correct me. 1 understood him to say that the New South Wales Government has made an investigation of flood mitigation possibilities on the Nambucca River. 1 understood him to say that that Government had made this investigation of the flood mitigation prospects for the Nambucca and that the Nambucca Shire Council had considered the report. 1 think that the honourable member said further that the Shire Council had decided against adopting that report and the indication was that nothing was needed or desired at the present time on the Nambucca River in terms of this legislation. I do not want to argue with the honourable member but I want to clarify this matter because I think it is a very important point. I ask the Minister for National Development to apply himself to this point when he replies in this debate. 
Because of my natural interest in all these problems and because it is part of the national problem of flood mitigation, flood control and water conservation generally I visited the Nambucca area and I asked the Nambucca Shire Council to indicate to me precisely the present position. On 5th March 1971 the Nambucca Shire  Clerk Mr J.  Mattick wrote to me and said: 
I enclose a copy of a letter which has been forwarded to the Department of Public Works. 
He was kind enough to say that my interest was appreciated. The interesting point about the letter of 5th March 1971 sent to the New South Wales Department  of  Public Works is the contents. I think that the Minister should clear up the confusion which appears to exist because the Shire  Clerk,  on behalf of the Nambucca Shire Council in the letter to the Department of Public Works, said: Dear  Sir. 
Re: Flood Mitigation Scheme for the Nambucca River. 
Council understands that Commonwealth legislation is being introduced to provide funds for flood mitigation programmes on coastal rivers and the Nambucca River has been excluded at this stage, lt is understood that investigation or the valley is to be undertaken this year. Council seeks clarification on whether it will be eligible for capital works if the investigation reveals that this is desirable, and of course, if the works as suggested are within Council's capacity to meet by way of its share of contribution. 
Your advices in Ibis regard will be appreciated. 
We have here a clear interest of a council in flood mitigation, works on the Nambucca River. We have here a clear desire to enlist the aid of State and Federal authorities on a matter which every honourable member in this chamber has agreed is vital to 
The appropriate department approaches the the survival of the prosperity of that region. I ask the Minister to direct his attention to this inquiry. There are two aspects in this matter. Firstly, the council has made an approach to the New South Wales Government. lt obviously expects that Government to approach the Commonwealth Government for the matter to go to the responsible Minister. If the Minister has not received this request I think we should know about it. I think the Minister should indicate what the answer is to this clear-cut query from the people in the Nambucca area. I hope that I read the letter slowly and precisely so that the Minister was able to get the import of their message. 
The third task I have to undertake tonight is to support specifically the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Dawson. That amendment ment states that flood control is only one part of the overall approach that we should be making to national disasters in Australia. Let us be quite clear on this. We have national disasters somewhere in this nation all the time. Sometimes they occur in this Parliament, but I do not think they are covered by this legislation or that they can be covered by any other legislation. In a time of drought, flood or fire at some time there is involvement by someone in this continent. We say as a matter of policy that there should be a national disaster organisation. It has been said by those on the Government side that all is well and there is no need to concern ourselves with any more than what is being done. We say that this is just not the case. In fact the long chain of bureaucracy which has to be followed, which has to be abided by under the present ad hoc system, is such that it creates hardships. 
Let me indicate what happens when there is a national disaster. I will leave aside the fact that civil defence can come to the aid of the people. I am talking about the rehabilitation of areas. What happens in the normal course of events? In the normal course of events there is a fire, flood or bush fire. It is beyond the capacity of a hard pressed State to meet the demands placed upon it. So what does the State do? Premier of the State and says,  'Mr Premier,  this is the situation. We will need these funds.' The Premier then says: 'We had better seek them because we have not got them because of the financial stringencies which have gone on for so many years. We must seek them from the Commonwealth.' So a letter is addressed from the Premier to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister receives it and refers it to the appropriate Minister of State who refers it to his department which examines it and makes a recommendation. If it is favourable it goes back to the Prime Minister who refers it to the Treasury which then makes a determination and it goes back to the Prime Minister. This is the long bureaucratic chain. Of course, the departments could come back with the wrong recommendation and so work in the disaster area, wherever it may be, is suspended. 
We propose that instead of this ad hoc approach there should be proper organisation, a proper drill. We have said that we are pledged to do just this. We have made the pledge and it is associated with our amendment. We say that we should set up a national crop and stock insurance corporation which would take so much of the hardship out of industries such as the dried fruits industry and the canned fruits industry which, with great regularity, find themselves in trouble. We have said that these are the things that we want to do. So we have said to the Parliament as a whole, I thought in an atmosphere of reasonableness, that these are our policies. We invite the Government to support them and indeed to do more than that. We ask the Government perhaps to suspend its judgment on these matters while we explore the detail of their possible operation. So by this amendment we have sought the interest in the Parliament - the interest of all sides and all sections of the Parliament - in order to make our proposals, which we will implement sooner or later, better for the combined consideration that we hope will be given by the members of this Parliament and by all of the specialist agencies upon which a select committee would be able to call. 
I think that the amendment is a supremely reasonable one. It is not just a case of rescuing somebody from the rooftop of a flooded house. It is not just a case of providing these matching grants to some authorities in some river valleys. What we say is: Let us take this opportunity in the national Parliament to look at the nation as a whole and to say that as disaster is endemic in our continent, let us provide for it, let us have a drill. We have 2 policies which we will implement. We say to the Government: 'Let us have your help and assistance in approaching them.' I think that is a supremely reasonable approach. Therefore, I commend the amendment to the House, but I would also ask specifically that the Minister for National Development address himself to the expressed concern of the people of Nambucca, Macksville and the area generally. I ask the Minister to deal with this matter specifically and clearly in his reply to this debate. 
I would say that the absence and silence of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Australian Country Party this evening perhaps indicates his support for our amendment. Therefore, we may be grateful that he has accepted the case which was put forward so eloquently many years ago by  Mr Frank  McGuren, which was supported by the Opposition and which is now embraced in our amendment. 
The Parliament debates tonight against the background of the- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
 I rise on a point of order.  Mr Speaker,  as the custodian of the rights and the privileges of the Parliament, is it proper procedure when a Government is facing a motion of censure for debate to be gagged in this' way? 
 It is nevertheless a disgrace. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I have one query in relation to the provisions governing the interest rate to be charged. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech referred to the fact that the interest rate, which has been increased to 5 per cent, represented the current level of interest that was necessary to cover borrowings. 
I want to pose to the Treasurer a series of questions. As I understand it, the money is advanced by the Reserve Bank. 
In effect the Reserve Bank is making a book entry. It is not operating on the open money market. What we are doing is making an arbitrary decision in relation to these funds, an arbitrary decision which I might say was made some 20 years ago. But whether it was 20 years ago, 10 years ago or last year, the principle still applies. I indicated that at that time the interest rate charged was less than one-half of the present rate. It was  2$  per cent. An appeal was made to the Prime Minister and Treasurer of the day who happened to be the late  Mr J.  B. Chifley. It was pointed out that in relation to the wheat industry there was a need for some encouragement, some incentive, some assistance. He said: What we will do in this instance as a matter of assistance is to cut the interest rate'. So he cut the interest rate from what it was then to  2  per cent. He indicated at the time that this was a book exercise, a book entry. It did not involve loan funds. 
I put to the Treasurer in relation to the interest rate that this is an arbitrary decision of the Government. It does not in fact relate specifically to money that is raised by way of loan to be advanced to the wheat industry. My object in raising this is to point out again that the entire exercise is a profitable one for the Commonwealth. I think it may have been overlooked by the Treasurer that the Commonwealth is doing exceedingly well out of this and similar legislation. I do not make the point in any party political way. I make it simply as a matter of administration. The money is advanced, and the interest rate is high compared with what applies to rural advances in other parts of the world, lt is 54 per cent and that is a high rate of interest. In the peak year this involved a payment by growers of interest amounting to S50m. 
What I am suggesting at this stage is that we should look at this in the truth of the situation as a book entry and not in relation to the general raising of money by way of loan. The Government makes the decision, the Government keeps the books and the Government determines the level of interest in any case by either indirect or direct means. The Treasurer once said that he did not dictate interest rates directly. I am sure he would never be guilty of an untruth. All I say is that I am sure he would be in a position, by virtue of the great weight of his office and influence, to indicate what the rates should be. If an industry is in trouble or in need of incentive, the interest rate is in his hands specifically and directly. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Dr R.  G. Cooper of Mildura Base Hospital that untreated water supplies to some Murray River Towns have already caused hepatitis. 
If so, did  Dr Cooper  say that tanks of Murray River water in some locations showed the water unsuitable for drinking to a fantastic degree. 
Did  Dr Cooper  also state that there is a risk of gastro-enteriris, and possibly typhoid, if water is taken for drinking from some River Murray locations. 
Is he able to say whether  Dr David  Law, Medical Officer of Health in the Riverina, initiated a survey; if so, has  Dr Law  stated that the survey already indicated a need to stop pollution now. 
Has he received complaints directly from Corowa District Hospital about the level of pollution in the Murray which is making it impossible to make water sterile for the operating theatre. 
Will he confer urgently with the Minister for National Development with a view to initiating anti-pollution measures. 
Will he study Canadian, French, British and other overseas anti-pollution legislation designed to maintain purity of rivers and streams with a view to following their lead. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has an interdepartmental committee been established to investigate aspects of the quality of water in the Murrumbidgee River. 
What is the composition of this committee and who comprises its membership. 
When was it established, how many times has it met and when will its final report be made available. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has done a national service today in bringing this matter before the Parliament. He did so because of the critical situation of the wool industry at the present time and the apparent absence of firm Government policies and firm plans or even guidelines for the future in relation to wool. The drift of the situation was recognised the other day when Australia's largest farmer organisation decided to ask the Federal Government to act as quickly as possible to acquire the entire Australian wool clip. That was done against the situation which has developed in the industry in relation to the operations of the Australian Wool Commission. 
The fact is that the cartel which is enshrined in wool buying operations is making a monkey out of the Government and the Commission. The cartel is showing us that for obvious reasons the feed-in into its pipeline is being kept to a minimum. All that the cartel has to do is to ride it out. The cartel knows, for example, that the will of the Government in doing anything in relation to wool is not terribly strong. So what is the cartel doing? It is refraining from feeding into the pipeline the material that it needs. It is waiting for the crash of the' Commission and then it will pick up what it needs. Look at the pies and monopolies which have operated in wool buying over the years. We can see that the pattern is clear and definite. At the present time some of the most powerful monopoly forces in the nation have joined together to frighten the Government into doing as little as it can and what it is doing is not very much. The Australian Wool Commission is a very pallid organisation compared with the kind of full blooded body that we had in mind to set up as a national wool authority and which we will set up in government. The cartel knows that a gesture has been made, but it is only a gesture so it is doing everything it possibly can to create a situation in which it can pick up bargains. That is the clear situation at the present time. 
The Minister came into the discussion on this matter of public importance and indicated that all possible was being done. He said that we will have to wait until the market in the world tells us where we are going. He concedes that wool prices are the lowest for 23 years and the growers are in crisis, but he has no new policies and no firm answer to that. The activities of the greatest monopolies which have caused the crisis are ignored completely. The buying monopoly is clear, definite and established. In fact it was established as long ago as 1955 when  Mr Justice  Cook indicated clearly the existence of 6 major wool pies. Some of them represent the most powerful forces in the political life of Australia at the present time. It should not be overlooked that perhaps they represent the supreme forces in the political life of Australia at the present time. 
It is well worth remembering that the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  entered a debate some years ago in relation to wool and was definite that there was a defence to be made of the present system and the present operation of the market forces which have brought us to this state. What I put to the Minister, and to his colleagues who no doubt will support him, is that the present honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  as Minister for Primary Industry, talked about wool going up to 40c in 10 years. I noticed that the honourable member for Dawson put that clearly to the present Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and gave him an opportunity to say whether that was his assessment of the situation, and he avoided the question. He did not reply to it. He left it there. If we accept as the target the assessment of the honourable member for Richmond that the price of wool will rise to 40c in 10 years, how can we marry that with the announcement made the other day by the new officer in charge of the Wool Commission Intelligence Service who said: 
We can expect wool prices of the order of 30c to 32c in the future. The days of 38c and better are over. In fact we will be lucky to hold at 30c during the next 10 years. 
The Government should make up its mind on exactly what voice it has in this matter. The Minister has said 40c in 10 years and then we hear another voice of government saying that the price will be of the order of 30c to 32c in the future. That indicates that perhaps only the biggest will survive. Again we come back to the ugly concept in government thinking - get big or get out. Only the corporation which has its fingers not only in producing wool but also in processing and handling it will be able to survive in a situation like that. That truly is the logic behind that statement. Let us again have clarification of the situation. Growers across the nation who are in crisis - 100,000 of them - want to know. They will not be satisfied with leaving it to what the market might or might not do. Either the Government has some guidance to offer and some intestinal fortitude with which to face up to the exploiters in the wool situation or it has not. 
We have dealt with the cartel situation. It is obvious, definite and known to everyone who has studied closely the operations of wool buying in this country. It is well known. But the Government has also run away from the shipping aspect of this matter and the fact that Australian wool growers have contributed very large sums of money over recent years for the privilege of using the present shipping arrangements. After 21 years of uninterrupted power the Government has accepted repeated freight rises which are crippling industries, the wool industry among them. Let us look briefly at the situation. In 1966 the freight rate for wool was $94 a ton and for canned fruit in containers $24 a ton. After the introduction of the Government's famous container arrangement, door to door, the rate for wool went to $104 a ton. Since then, further increases have taken place. 
The exploiting forces have encompassed not only the sea but the land. The Minister would know that wool has helped to subsidise rail systems in New South Wales and other States for a very long time and there has been no action on it. Perhaps there was justification for it when the wool industry was strong and buoyant but there is no justification whatsoever for accepting the present situation in respect of handling or freight, internally or externally. Yet the Government has accepted it. There has been no action on it. The wool industry has been in a state of crisis for a considerable time now. Many of the families in it are on the edge of disaster but still there has been no concerted attack on these problems. We are still freighting wool in a container inside another container at 4 times what it would cost if we went into open competition on the coastline. The Minister may smile but I represent a great number of people who are not smiling at the present time. 
I am delighted that the Minister has shown his colours in defending the 3 monopolies and the 3 situations that I have mentioned. 
If the honourable member for Wimmera wants to fight the next election on the present situation in regard to wool he may do so, and I wish him luck because he will need it. He has allowed the wool grower to be exploited not only by overseas cartels but also in the interests of overseas shipping concerns which have forced on this industry and on others the highest freight rates in the world. If he defends them I am ashamed of him. 
It is about time a little excitement were engendered in these matters and a little more done than simply rising in one's place, as the Minister did  when replying to the honourable member for Dawson, and saying: "We have to rely on what the market will do.' The wool industry is a colonial industry in our country. We process only 6 per cent of the clip. We do less processing now, perhaps, than we did many years ago, certainly at the basic level of scouring. The Government's attitude is: 'We will look into it. We will have some inquiries made.' After 21 years in office the Government says that it will make some inquiries about the basic processing of Australian wool. We  should  be joining with New Zealand and South Africa to bring some world stability to the situation and to confront the monopoly which is waiting for the crash. If the industry is allowed to crash it will be the responsibility not only of the Minister but also of the Government and the people who support it and who have no interest in the survival of the family enterprise but look for the day when the corporation will be able to handle wool at both ends, that is, the growing and producing end, the handling and even- 
The Minister says: Rubbish'. Therefore he defends the present situation. All I can say is that he has a very poor reply to the urgent needs of an industry in dire trouble at this time. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is clear and given the chance we will fulfil it. 
asked the  Minister  for 
Immigration,  upon notice: 
How many of the 30,000 Asian students trained in Australia since 1950 have applied to remain in, or return to, Australia to practice their professions here. 
How many of the applications have been granted. 
Did he receive a petition from a large number of Australians asking that three Asian doctors be permitted to undertake post-graduate studies here while remaining on the staff of St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney. 
Did every resident doctor of the hospital also petition for the three doctors to be permitted to remain. 
Have the doctors now left the country under his orders. 
Is. ill-will engendered by such actions when the doctors concerned were private students paying their own way without assistance from their own or the Australian Government. 
Is it a fact that European private students are not required to leave on the expiry of their courses and that the requirements only applies to Asians and Africans. 
Will he consider giving to Asian and African students who are among the 9,500 private students from overseas presently studying here the same freedom of choice as that given to students from Europe. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many merino rams have been purchased by overseas buyers since the partial lifting of the ban on the export of these rams by the Government. 
What countries were represented in the purchases. 
How many rams have left the country to date. 
Did the Senate oppose the lifting of this ban. 
Has this House been denied the right to debate the ban. 
Is he able to say whether' the Western Australian Farmers' Union Wool Section Conference has carried by a two-thirds majority, a motion opposing the export of merino rams. 
With a view to resolving House differences will he, at the earliest convenient time, arrange for a debate on the lifting of the ban. 
asked the PostmasterGeueral, upon notice: 
Was the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio programme 'At Home This Morning' taken off the second network in December. 
Did this programme enjoy higher audience ratings than 'Morning Call'. 
If so will he explain why the more popular programme was dropped. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise with great pleasure to follow my colleague, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who has given a masterly exposition of the problems that confront dried fruits growers at the present time. He has also dissected the legislation before us in a particularly commendable way. I am delighted to be able to follow the honourable member and pay him that compliment. I stand with him in the comments he made about the serious problems facing the dried fruits industry at the present time. 
My friend, the honourable member for Mallee interjects and asks me: 'What about the honourable member for Dawson?' I may say that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  led for the Opposition in this debate and we on this side of the House are at one with him. There is no need for the honourable member for Mallee to be concerned with the Opposition; he should apply himself to some of the problems facing the industry which are rather more urgent than was indicated by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I agree with the honourable member for Darling that it does not matter whether we have a greater or lesser number of growers. We stand with them and serve them to the best of our ability. The references the honourable member made to industry stabilisation are very much to the point. There is a desire in the industry generally to see a stabilisation programme, but the industry wants to see discussions continued not on the basis of the Government's edict of take it or leave it, whatever proposition is put forward by the Government, but on the basis of taking into account all the doubts, worries and concerns that my colleague mentioned in relation to stabilisation in the future. The honourable member did a very fine service in referring to the need for regional broadcasting services. This is something that all honourable members, from both sides of the Murray, are concerned about, and I hope we will not lose sight of this need. It seems to me to be pretty disgraceful that in Australia at the present time there are areas in the Southeast corner of the continent that just cannot get good radio reception. I am sure this is a problem in the Congo Republic but we do not expect it in Australia in 1971. However, this is what we have got. 
In relation to the measures before us the Minister for Primary Industry in his second reading speech did not seem to be fully seized with the seriousness of the problems the industry faces. Let me quote a fraction of his speech. He said: 
Dried fruit production is of considerable economic importance to the rural communities where these fruits are grown and exports of dried fruits contribute significantly to our export earnings. 
They are not just of considerable economic importance to some of these communities; they are the life and death of these communities. I think this should be recognised. The Minister went on to say: 
In common with other primary industries, dried fruit producers are faced with rising costs, increasing competition in world markets and more stringent standards imposed by importing countries. 
This is as much as to say that these are the normal sorts of things the Government deals with and there is no real cause for special concern. I feel this is a great understatement of the position. It may be due to lack of knowledge of the position. In the dried fruits industry we should recognise that more than in any other industry, disaster is endemic and in nearly every other year the industry has to face a crisis either in marketing or, and particularly, in relation to the weather and the crop. Yet every year that it has been in existence in this century no basic measures have been taken to remove some of this lack of security. I refer particularly to the fact that even at this stage we are considering a research proposal - a measure to improve industry research and to make funds available for a better approach to problems within the industry. As a principle the Opposition has always supported the need for increased and improved industry research. The 2 things are not always synonymous, but I make that point quite clearly. We have before us a measure which says, in effect, that we are dedicated to further research to improve the product yet, at present, the Government has turned its face away from the position confronting one of our major export markets, the United Kingdom. We still have no commitment from the Government about what will happen to the range of industries that will be affected by Britain's entry into the European Economic Community or her association with the European Common Market. 
J believe that in the quiet of the evening some members of the Government still get down on their knees and pray very hard that Britain does not enter the Community. This is their forward planning - they pray desperately that the problem they see coming does not arise. This is a bankruptcy of thought. We have no commitment from the Government regarding the survival of these industries in the face of changes which must be made in advance of Britain entering the European Economic- Community. This Bill relates to one industry, yet we have no Government commitment concerning that industry if Britain enters the European Economic Community.I suggest that prayers, however commendable in the dark of the evening, are not a substitute for action. Both should apply. 
An honourable member from the Government benches interjects that this is a joke. It is not a joke to the growers who have waited for many years for some semblance of action. We have been waiting for 50 years- not that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  has been in this place for 50 years, although he has been here for. a generation - and still we do not have a national disaster authority or a national, disaster fund. We still do not have any national crop or livestock insurance provisions such as are enjoyed by our competitors in other countries. We do not have any of these things and yet Government members interject and say: 'Oh, some joking is going on'. There has been joking and lethargy for a generation and it is time it came to an end because, after all, if we deal with' the problems of the industries in the dim future instead of now, the industries will not survive. The Pontius Pilate attitude of the Government saying: 'We will', await the industry's desires; we will await ' advice from the States; and we will not establish any positive guidelines ourself just will not do. However, I pay the Government a tribute for being consistent in this regard. It has never said: 'We will give youalead or We will take the lead'. What it has said is: We will wait on the industry' or 'We will wait on the States'. 
Let us examine the position of the dried fruits industry. The refusal of the Victorian Government to control expansion of plantings of dual purpose or drying variety grapes has not been accepted as 'final by the Australian Dried Fruits Association. The Association has said that it will make a direct approach to the Government on this. The Association submits that over production already poses serious problems. The Association has had before it the report of the United States Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service that the combined world sultana production is estimated at 704,900 tons or some 5 per cent more than last year's production. The estimate of Australia's total sultana production is 94,900 tons. It is obvious that there is a desire by the industry to see some action. Likewise there is a desire by a State to do something different. I am suggesting that the Commonwealth Government cannot wash its hands once again in ils recurring role of Pontius Pilate and say: 'We have no guidelines. We have no leadership to give. We will just have to await developments'. This is exactly the kind of policy, or attitude, which has got Australia into serious difficulty wilh practically every primary industry in the nation. 
There is a need for positive guidelines in relation to the dried fruits industry. There is a need for action on the 3 points that have been raised in this debate. There is need for stabilisation. As a matter of fact I would suggest that even before stabilisation there is a need for a firm commitment by the Government concerning the dried fruits industry if Britain enters the European Economic Community. If Britain enters that Community will the Government say: Well, this is bad for that industry. We have lost that export market. We will have to cut the industry down or cut it out'? We need a commitment now because obviously action should, be intrain in advance of Britain's entering the European Economic Community. This is the first point I raise. 
Secondly, we should be taking all possible steps to confer with all sides of the industry to ensure a basic stabilisation scheme. Thirdly, the Government should make a commitment that the Opposition has already made, namely, to establish a national disaster fund which could be of great and continuing value to the dried fruits industry. Concurrently or conjointly with that we should be exploring the possible introduction of a national crop and livestock insurance fund which is needed and which has been needed all this century or ever since primary industry was established. These are matters on which the Opposition has made commitments and I invite the Government to share our commitments. The Government is in power and it should be taking action now. 
I agree with the points that were made by the honourable member for Darling about the present Act. There is always a tendency to impose the greatest burden on the producers. This has been revealed in many directions but as an Opposition we have said that we will support legislation which has the support of the industry or the overwhelming number of people in the industry. Despite growers' reservations about the Bill, there is a great and continuing need for improved and extended research. Because of (hat urgency members of the Opposition support the Bill. However, it is no use having measures such as this before the Parliament in isolation. In dealing with the great rural industries of this nation the fundamental problems should be acknowledged. I again express my dismay that the Minister, in his second reading speech, tended to dismiss the great problems of the industry and dealt with only this one facet. This is not good enough. It will not do and I suggest that while members of the Opposition accept this Bill they have served notice that they will expect a belter performance in relation to the other rural problems than they have seen this afternoon. 

 Mr TURNBULL (Mallee)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I support the points that were put by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and I want to comment on what was said by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The Minister says that the whole of this clause, in fact the whole of the penal clauses of this Bill which the Government is enacting, is there to ensure that one or two growers do not opt out or do not take advantage of the legislation and fail to make a proper contribution. We accepted the principle of the legislation at the second reading stage but 1 would point out to the Committee that we are talking about a penalty of $200. The major objection that we put forward is that under the offending sub-clause (2.) all of the actions by the inspector are validated and accepted while all the evidence of the growers can be challenged. It seems to me, as the honourable member for Dawson has said, that this sets aside important legal provisions and processes, provisions which are in many Acts, in many statutes. In relation to this matter of a possible penalty of $200 what is being said here is that all of the statements by the inspectors - and the Minister admits he does not have many - are accepted. If the inspector does call, no matter how hurriedly he conducts his investigation and no matter how mistaken he may be, his statement is to be accepted. 
Surely this is a sweeping, hammer-like provision to put into a piece of legislation where we are dealing - and the Minister has admitted this - with possibly only one or two growers. He is setting aside a great principle for a very small reason. But the thing that concerns me perhaps even more than the offending sub-clause (2.) is the provision that a prosecution for an offence against this sub-clause may be commenced at any time within 5 years. This is not reasonable. Imagine the situation of a man standing for public office. Five years previously he could have committed an occurrence for which action against him could possibly have been initiated, lt may not have been initiated. It may be, of course, that someone with an eye to denying him public office could say: 'Well, it would be a very good idea to go ahead with this action now.' Surely there is no real reason- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  Order! ] think the honourable member for Riverina is possibly confusing the 2 amendments which were foreshadowed. The one that the Committee is considering at the moment refers to clause 8 (2.) which deals with proceedings for the recovery of an amount referred to. The matter of 5 years and 12 months is dealt with in the second amendment proposed to be moved. 
I am sorry; I defer, of course. I will withhold my comments on that until a later stage. I would just say in conclusion that I would like to submit to the Minister that this is taking a very heavy hammer in relation to the acceptance of evidence in this matter and setting aside a great principle for something involving, in fact, one or two growers. I think it is a noxious provision and we would be opposed to it. 
Earlier I was directing my remarks to the wrong clause but let me direct myself very specifically to sub-clause (2.) of clause 11. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has referred to this incredible provision to which I previously referred. The provision contained in this clause is that prosecution for an offence against clause 11 may be commenced at any time within 5 years after the commission of the offence. Let us look at what the Government has done. It has the agreement of the industry to have a levy for a certain purpose. This is desirable and we agree that all growers should contribute and should bear an equal burden. There can, of course, be accidental circumstances in which returns are not lodged or in which the information provided may not be totally accurate. Mistakes may be made by the grower, in good faith. Mistakes may be made by government inspectors, also in good faith. Let us be quite clear on this. The onus here is on the grower. 
What we have agreed to is that anything the inspector says in evidence is to be accepted! There is to be no argument about it. This places the whole onus on the grower. I agree with the honourable member for Dawson that the provisions of subclause (2.) are against the principles of justice as they have applied in this country. In regard to the nature of the offence we find that the provision relates to the failure or neglect to furnish a return or the furnishing of a return or information that is false or misleading. The penalty provided is $200. That is not an inconsiderable penalty, but the onus is on the grower. The government inspectors enshrined in this legislation are never to be permitted to make an error. That is an incredible piece of infallibility, but there it it. We lost the vote on that issue and it has now been accepted. Now we are being asked to accept this, time limit in relation to this awful offence of failing to make a return or making an inaccurate return. Of course it is an offence but we are being asked to give the Commonwealth a period of 5 years in which to launch a prosecution for such an offence. I draw the attention of this Committee to the fact that under the Crimes Act the statutory time limit for certain offences is 6 months. The Crimes Act deals with serious matters including assault on the person. It deals with a whole range of real crimes. In such a case the onus is on the State to marshal its case and to take action within 6 months. In this case for this awful crime on the part of the grower of not furnishing his return or of making some inaccuracy in it we are asked to give the Commonwealth a period of 5 years within which to launch a prosecution. This is an incredible provision. The Opposition is opposed to it. I hope that the Minister will have second thoughts about it. 
I want to come back to a point which I previously mentioned. There could well be a situation in which a man has decided to contest a public office. A prosecution could be launched against him many years after the event. Let us imagine what happens in relation to the case. The case comes forward and the inspector's evidence must, under this Bill, be accepted. But perhaps the defendant's witnesses have died and their evidence is lost. The defendant is standing there naked and unashamed, without any hope of opposing the whole weight and resources of the Commonwealth in a matter such as this. Surely this is not reasonable. I hope that the Minister will take very serious note of the objection and refer to the Crimes Act in which there is an analogy. A Stale in these serious matters is allowed only 6 months in which to act. 
The Commonwealth, with all the powers that it has taken unto itself - and, after all, this is not a very impressive offence, but it is certainly a material one; let us put it in its proper perspective - is asking for a period of 5 years in which it can act. I submit this is neither desirable nor just. I ask the Minister to examine the submissions we have made in a reasonable way. We agree that one or two growers might want to be gently brought into line, but surely to goodness we do not want to drag the growers through a long drawn out period of prosecution in the way which is envisaged under this Bill. 
I rise to second the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I do so with some heat at the moment, because since 16th February I have been trying to ask a question which I regard as important for my constituents and for the nation generally. I know that this is not your responsibility,  Mr Speaker.  If honourable members opposite think that it is of no significance that a member of the national Parliament is prevented from carrying out his proper functions then that does them very little credit. In supporting this motion I would draw the attention of this Parliament to the fact that it has been the practice in the Parliament of New South Wales, for practically the whole of its history, when it has had question time that question time is a right enshrined in Standing Orders and it is administered by the  Speaker.  .It is not a matter of the whim or caprice of an individual. It is the right of the members. The administration is in the hands of the  Speaker  of the Parliament, and that is where it should be. 
You,  Sir, as Speaker,  are the custodian of the rights and privileges of all honourable members. That is as it should be in this matter. You pointed out to me yesterday - frankly, I thought that I had misunderstood you - that this is not right. I was shocked to find that that was so. Question time is the most vital part of the deliberations of this House where the Government, and the Opposition for that matter, are under scrutiny. I discovered that this is not your responsibility,  Mr Speaker.  It is merely at the whim and the caprice of the head executive of the executives. I have noted here the drift to executive government in this Parliament, which is quite incredible when compared with other parliaments. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has just said something by interjection. I did not hear what he said. If he wants to debate it I suggest that he come into the debate instead of cowering on the front bench. I want to submit very precisely and definitely to the House that this is a matter of high importance to the democracy of the nation. This is a matter which is far too important to be left to the caprice and whim df the individual. I suggest that it should be a matter for the House itself.  Mr Speaker,  you are the expression and the repository of the desires and will of the Parliament. 
That is true. The honourable member has pointed out by way of interjection that there is a danger of this Parliament being closed down altogether for a very long time. Question time is a period when we can probe action that has been taken by the Government. This is the great right that we have. Question time is the most important period of the parliamentary programme. 
Well, in some respects this is one of our remaining rights. 1 support the motion of the honourable member for Chifley that Standing Orders be suspended so that we can debate this most important matter. If honourable members do not support the motion it will mean that they are not seized' of the importance of question time, and the rights and privileges of this Parliament will become a whited sepulchre. 1 anr shocked to feel that members of the Government and even supporters of the. Government on the back benches believe that this is a matter of little or no importance. Members of the Opposition feel that, this matter should be approached in the light of the need of Australia to have an important national forum which will give ' all honourable members the opportunity to participate as fully as possible. I hope the motion will draw support from all corners of the House. 
lt is anticipated that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will send the Parliament into a premature winter sleep as soon as possible. We are to be sent home. The national forum is to be closed down. Indications are that this will happen and the long winter recess will begin without any statement to the Parliament by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on the present serious distortions in our trade and on the great question mark hanging over 8 per cent of our exports when Britain either enters the European Economic Community or negotiates a new trading relationship with Europe. Since the Minister took office we have heard nothing positive in the Parliament. We have heard some extraordinary statements which would seem to indicate that there is a great vacuum in the administration of Australia's trade policies at the present time, and that vacuum would seem to be constituted by the Minister. It may well be that he is too preoccupied with Party matters and Party politics, with scoring points, with denigrating opponents and with building his image as a new tough voice for the countryside. But whatever the reason his short administration is already marked by an incredible lack of awareness of issues, of developments and even of the trading facts of life. 
He began his ministry by insulting one of our major trading associates, China. He declared loftily that he would not be pushed into recognising China. He was not going to be concerned about trade. He had his conscience - or was it his preferences - to worry about. In any event the letter he has been awaiting from China on wheat still has not arrived, while other major trading nations such as Canada, France, Britain, Italy and others have hurried to both recognition and trade. Japan, which does not extend diplomatic recognition to China, certainly recognises the facts of trade, has an agreement, has an office and has $800m in two way trade. Just how out of touch with trading reality the Minister ils can be measured by his reply to the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  a member of his own Party, who urged new initiatives with China in relation to wool. And what was the Ministers reply? He said it was a long standing principle accepted by his Government that commodities remained the property of those who produced them. He did not seem to understand that the honourable member for Moore was talking about wool owned by the taxpayers, bought with their money and held by the Australian Wool Commission.  His  final word on wool sales was that he would find out what was going on. 
Then we had his response to the arranged question by his own henchman on the questions I had posed in relation to the $5m worth of foreign cheese we import at this time. I had pointed out that it had been reported to the Tariff Board that cheese which had been previously rejected by United States authorities because of high DDT contamination was being dumped in Australia. I had also pointed out that hundreds of tons of cheese were being dumped here in a raw, unpasteurised form from areas with unknown or doubtful hygiene. The Government's henchman, at the Minister's direct instigation, talked of gross reflection upon Australia's trade arrangements. The Government inference is that I was rocking a boat of great profit to this country. In fact Bulgaria is one of the major places of origin of the cheese exports I had challenged. We actually import $627,000 worth of products from Bulgaria and export to her only half that amount. So the Government's concern is for the mouse which could contaminate, not the nation's health and not surely, in the face of the figures, our balance of trade. 
The need for a clear and definite Government statement on trade, however, is associated with more important matters. It is associated with the fact that 10 years ago the then Minister for Trade and Industry said that Britain's entry into the European Economic Community would be disastrous for Australia. The present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  was sacked for saying it would not. Before his retirement  Sir John  McEwen again sounded his warnings in his role as the Gloomy Dean that disaster was imminent - or implied that, at any rate. Then his successor took over and said absolutely nothing to the Parliament. He made various statements to the various industries. 
The canned fruits industry sought firm guidelines from the Government 2 years ago. The industry wanted to plan its production according to what is required. It wanted to plan ahead. The Government replied that it could not provide guidelines. It could not even provide estimates of demand, or give any projections. It did not know where it was going and regretted that it could not be more definite. This reply was conveyed to the industry by letter on 2nd September 1969. The last attempt by the industry to find out what plans the Government had for it was made in January of this year when the then Minister for Primary Industry was asked for an assessment of the position of the canned fruits industry. He arranged for or asked an officer to reply on his behalf, and the officer said: 'Peaches will be finished within 6 years of Britain joining the Common Market and the pear industry will be finished before then.' That was on 29th January, and since then there has been dead silence. 
Then we have the extraordinary decision of the Tariff Board, which up until now has been backed by the Government, to open the doors of Australia wide to dumped cherries. Already Australia spends $840,000 in importing brine cherries. We have 1,000 Australian cherry growers who will be hit disastrously by foreign dumping. Yet not a word has been said or any action taken by the Minister for Trade and Industry. We had the extraordinary scene the other day of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  posing questions on trade and tariffs in relation to truck parts. A decision has been made which will load a bankrupt countryside with millions of dollars of additional costs over a period of years, and the Minister said he knew nothing about it. In holding open the doors to a flood of doubtful products the Minister has ignored the mad economics which encourage European farmers to produce in theory cheese and packaging for nothing but will get a government handout to the extent of 40 per cent to dump the products here. 
All of this forms a background to my main point tonight. Australia's trade balance on current account with the United Kingdom and the United States of America is now a net deficit of nearly $ 10,000m over a 21-year period. Our trade balance with the United States shows a deficit of $6000m since 1950-51. In some years it was as much as $750m. Our trade balance with the United Kingdom shows a deficit of nearly $6000m since 1950-51, and in some years it has been as high as $680m. We face a monumental drift in trade and a situation which we can remedy only by selling our country and our heritage to overseas interests. But the Parliament is being sent into a premature winter sleep without a statement on this critical situation by the Minister for Trade and Industry. The nation deserves better than this. The Opposition demands it. 
I rang the office of the Minister for Trade and Industry this evening to let him know that I would be raising this matter during the adjournment debate. I was not able to contact him because he was not there. It could well be that he is about the nation's business. But for the greater part of this adjournment debate there has not been a Minister at the table. The first Minister to gently approach the table, with some temerity as a new Minister, was the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  I was glad to see him take his place at the table. He must have thought to himself, 'I do not know whether 1 should be here or not' because he went away again. I am glad to see that there is now a Minister at the table. The Government should take notice of the House and notice of the Parliament during the adjournment debate and see to it that a representative of the Ministry is in the chamber. As I said, a Minister is at the table at present, but there was not one there when this debate began, and there was not one there for a considerable portion of it. The absence df a Minister at the table at the time when my colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  was raising important matters is typical of the contempt that has been shown by the Government for the Parliament during the time that 1 have been in this chamber. 
I think we should again draw attention to the fact that this is an adjournment debate. This is the House of Representatives in session.  Mr Speaker  is occupying the chair. I think the least that the Government could do is to arrange for a Minister to be at the table. There is a Minister there now but, 1 repeat, there was not when this debate began. On many occasions during the adjournment debate in this House there has been no-one at the table to represent the Ministry. 1 say again that there is a tendency by the Government towards autocracy in relation to matters that we have raised even during the course of this day. I think as members of this House we should contest that attitude. I draw attention to the fact tonight as well as directing attention to the important matter of trade which I raised during the course of my remarks. 
I desire to direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that recent authoritative assessments have indicated that 100 million acres of pastoral and agricultural land in nearly every State of the Commonwealth and in the Northern Territory are now owned or controlled by overseas interests? If the Prime Minister is aware of this situation, is he concerned? If he is concerned, what measures has he in view to prevent this sell-out of Australia and our national heritage? 
Mir McMAHON- It is obvious that the honourable gentleman did not listen to the question posed to me in somewhat similar terms at question time yesterday. So far as Commonwealth territories are concerned, I will refer the problem to my colleague the Minister for the Interior. So far as the States are concerned, their governments alone have the constitutional responsibility to control leasing or freeholding of any land in their States and the taking up of that land by overseas interests. If the honourable member and other honourable members on the other side of the House are genuinely interested in this problem they should approach the various State governments and suggest to them that they take the necessary action. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that for 10 years there has been no examination by the Tariff Board of 70 per cent of the Australian industries receiving protection. 
If so, will he order a general review of the levels of tariff protection prevailing in those industries. 
 I wish to make only one comment about the incredible performance of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and that is that he who throws mud loses ground. He has lost ground. I want to say also about the incredible attack on the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that the honourable member for Dawson, as a complete gentleman in these matters, has resisted doing what I would have been inclined to do, and that is to move a motion of censure of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  for his entire performance in the Trade Ministry. At least the honourable member said to me, and I put this on record: 'No, he is not present. This is an important matter for a million Australians, for 50,000 wheat growers; it is not a matter for somebody's petty politicking, such as the Minister for Shipping and Transport has engaged in.' He said: 'We will move on it; of course we will. But I would not like to censure the Minister in his absence'. But 1 will tell you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that we will be delighted to do it next week when the Minister returns. We are available. The Government has the challenge so let it put up or be quiet. 
I am happy to make myself available. If you are not available that is just too bad. Australia has become an international humbug in its attitude to China. It has maintained on the home front for purely domestic political consumption a policy of unrelieved hostility. 
Each election time the threat becomes worse and the invasion imminent but between elections the Government has reaped the benefit of what is largely a oneway trade. The. sum total of Australian trade with Mainland China in the 1969-71 period amounted to $157,897,000. Of that $126m comprised Australian exports. We bought only a little more than S32m so we have had a developing trade with 750 million people, lt is true that although this represented a major effort in wheat selling and mainly as a result of industry initiative - and f stress that - the rest of the world, recognising the improvement in the stability of China and noticing a perceptible improvement in marketing prospects, has been rushing to trade. Britain led the way in recognition originally and is now so much better established in China than we are (hat it is the British . Government through its overseas representatives that is keeping Australia informed about matters vital to our trade, lt is incredible that we are in a position of having to rely on trade competitors to pass on to us notes from one of our best customers. But that is the ludicrous position in which Australia is now placed. The French recognise and trade with China. Italy recognises China and is seeking to expand her trade with China. Canada has done exactly the same and has stolen a march on Australia in wheat exports. Where has Australia been in all this? The Government on the one hand has panicked about wheat. According to this Government Australia was massively overproduced in wheat and having said this the Government proceeded to force a rationing or a quota system- 
I again make the point that the Government forced a depression on the countryside by its policy and one of its major contributions to the depression was its policy on wheat. At the same time it failed to take any trade initiatives. It has failed to do this in India. It not only failed to take any initiatives in China but it effec tively sabotaged the efforts of the Australian Wheat Board, and the instrument of that sabotage was the Minister for Trade and Industry. He was elected Leader of the Australian Country Party became heir apparent as  Deputy  Prime Minister, and demanded and got the portfolio of Trade and Industry. In the flush of : his new power, on 7th February he went out of his way in arrogant condensation to tell Australia and the world that he would not be pushed into recognising China for the purpose of selling wheat. He had his conscience to consider. He said he would not sell his soul to compromise 750 million Chinese. 
I make the point that if he feels this way about China he should get out of the Trade and Industry portfolio. If his soul is in peril - God forbid that this should happen during Easter week - he should do the right thing and resign. He cannot have it both ways. His position is one of monumental humbug. If he continues to hold the portfolio of Trade and Industry let him keep his conscience clear and his soul intact and let the nation get on with the job. This is not the only matter in which the Minister has been at fault. He has been the Minister for Trade and Industry since 15th February and he has not yet made a statement on trade to this Parliament. Indeed, the only clue as to his views on trade have been late night television interviews and odd Press interviews, but this Parliament has had no statement on Trade since 15th February. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry is in New Zealand discussing the operations of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. We should have had an opportunity to review in this Parliament the operation of that Agreement and particularly to explore the charges that this Agreement has helped to destroy the stability of the Australian fat lamb market. The Minister has no business in New Zealand without telling this Parliament what his policy is. The tragedy of the China situation is that despite questioning in this Parliament, despite fears by the industry, and despite a revolt against the Minister in circles of his own Party he has persisted in an attitude of arrogance quite unreal and unacceptable in a man who is supposed to be Australia's first salesman.  His  only contribution to trade with the biggest single market in our region and one of the biggest potential markets in the world has been to blunder and then to tell the Parliament in response to every question that he is still waiting on an elusive letter which apparently will not now arrive. I believe the Government has made a decision in principle to recognise China. I believe this has been the attitude of  Mr Anthony  in association with the third partner of the ramshackle coalition - the Australian Democratic Labor Party - which has prevented the implementation of that decision. 
The former Prime Minister brought  Mr Anthony  quickly to heel after his initial blunder. The former Prime Minister's telephone call to the Minister has been described as in the best traditions of  President  Eisenhower's call to Prime Minister Eden on the Suez adventure: Stop it. Surely it is time for the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to enter the picture. If  Mr Anthony  has a struggle with his conscience let him- 
I apologise. 
It was an oversight. I accept your stricture. It is correct that the Minister should be referred to as the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I want to refer to the fact that there is widespread revolt in the countryside and indeed in the Country Party against the  Deputy  Prime Minister's policy. A member of the New South Wales Legislative Council,  Mr Falkiner,  on return from a visit to Russia said: 
. China and Russia could become major customers for Australian wool, if the Federal Government offered flexible foreign exchange terms and China was given diplomatic recognition. 
He went on to say: 
Russia and China need Australian wool. The first thing we can do is to recognise China. i cannot see why we cannot recognise a third of the world's peoples. 1 am sure it will lead to increased sales. 
There is the tip of the revolting iceberg, but against the background of all this is not only the matter of wheat sales to Red China; it is a matter of the whole of Australia's balance of trade. I mentioned the other night in this House that our combined deficit in trade with the United Kingdom and the United States of America over 20 years amounts to the monumental figure of $10,000m. This is a drift in trade. It is a situation which we are remedying only by selling our country and our heritage to overseas interests. The Minister himself is indicted on four counts. Firstly, there is the failure of his policy towards China, with disastrous results. Secondly, there is the revolt against his own policy. Thirdly, there is his failure to bring to the House a proper policy in relation to trade during the time he has been Minister for Trade and Industry. Fourthly, there is his incredible lack of awareness of trade issues and the facts of life, combined with an ignorance of matters within his own jurisdiction such as when he was questioned in this place on the matter of truck components and he did not know anything about them. He confessed and said: 'I know nothing about this'. Yet this was a decision which will load millions of dollars in costs onto a struggling countryside. 
In this conclusion I want to say with some emotion: One million people and a very great industry are involved. The Minister should take some new initiative in trade along the lines of the Japanese initiatives. He should establish a treaty and a trade office and emulate the Japanese. If he cannot manage to marry his conscience with trade let the Deputy Prime Minister step out of his portfolio and let somebody else take over. I respect his conscience. Let him go in the interests of this nation, this industry and Australia's future in this region of the world. 
I just want to say in passing to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that with the pressure of questions in the House a member asks one question every 3 weeks - this matter has been debated in the House recently - and questions on notice are an integral part of the rights of this Parliament. I am sorry that the honourable member for Angas was 4 days late in waking up to an important issue which was drawn to his attention today. He has my deepest sympathy. Obviously this is too late an hour to be dwelling on these things. 
I rise principally this evening to draw attention to the fact that 30,000 Asian students have trained in Australia since 1950 and. according to answers given to me recently by the Minister for Immigration since 1966 2,500 of them have been granted permission to remain in Australia. I was not given information as to how many applications had been refused. Many applications are made by Asian students who come here as private students, who graduate and then wish to stay here. 
In January 2 doctors were virtually deported from Australia. They had graduated and had spent a year as resident doctors at the St Vincents Hospital in Sydney. The 2 points I wish to make about those expulsions, as I will call them, are these: They were based on an entirely wrong premise, according to the medical authorities themselves; and secondly, it is action such as this which is giving Australia a particularly ugly visage in Asia, because we are determining for these private students where they should live and where they should work. We do this not because of our needs but because of the needs of their country, as we see them. In relation to the doctor from Hong Kong on whose behalf I spoke, the Hong Kong authorities were quite amused to think that Australia was making about the future of one of their citizens a determination which they would not be game and in fact did not desire to make themselves. 
The term 'White Australia* still bas ugly connotations in Asia, and it is continuing to be ugly because of unreasonable decisions taken in this matter. The Department made a decision in relation to 2 doctors. There were 3 doctors concerned originally. They were  Dr Young. Dr Yong  and  Dr Chang.  Two have returned to Hong Kong already.  Dr Yong  has been permitted to stay to do further post graduate work. The point I make is that the Department made the decision that the doctors had adequate medical training, but it is not qualified to make such a decision, according to the people involved in this issue at St Vincent's Hospital. It has also made a wrong decision, it is submitted, because it implies that Asian doctors are adequately qualified after 12 months residency. They came here and did their studies. They did 12 months residency. The Department said: 'You are adequately trained; back you go'. Their colleagues have submitted that this is in complete conflict with medical educators. The New South Wales Hospitals Commission has strongly recommended a 2-year hospital residency. In fact, this 2-year residency will soon be compulsory under the new University of New South Wales resident training programme. 
The other point that was brought in issue by the colleagues of these doctors - the colleagues arranged to present to the Minister a petition signed by 450 people - was that they wanted to see the doctors remain. 1 wanted to see them remain for the very simple and very good reason that some towns in the Riverina have not had medical services for an entire year. The doctors would have been sought after there. I came into the matter because some people whom I represent had been treated by the doctors at St Vincent's Hospital in Sydney. When these people heard that the doctors were to be expelled they were horrified. They raised the matter very strongly. The Professor of Pathology at the University of New South Wales has commented about a doctor who was required to return to Malaysia. He said: 
The requirement that he now return to Malaysia after but 1 year's experience as a resident medical officer may well mean that he will be denied the opportunity to perform post graduate work in experimental pathology. Such an outcome would be  a  tragedy, since he has shown a particular talent for this field of work. 
The doctor was permitted to stay. The other 2 involved had been expelled already. There is an incredible paternalism operating in relation to Asians; there are no such inhibitions or desires when it comes to European students. The Minister for Immigration pointed out to me in a reply to a question that occasionally European parents working in Asian and Pacific countries wished to send their children to school in Australia while they are still too young for entry as migrants. Such children are admitted as students. If, while they are studying here, they reach adulthood and wish to settle in Australia, they would normally be eligible to do so. If a European comes here under the private students scheme he can stay. If an Asian comes here and graduates and if we want him, he is required to go back because our Government makes a determination as to the needs of his country. If we applied this line of thinking to our immigration programme, it would mean that anyone who got off an aeroplane from England, Italy, Spain, Germany, Holland or wherever he may come from would be asked, when he reached the bottom of the gangplank: Does your country need you?' Depending on the determination of our authorities, we would send them back to their respective countries. That is unreasonable. 
We would send them back only if they were Asians, as my good friend pointed out. This applies only to Asians. We need these people. We need their skills. I am informed that the 2 doctors, whose names I have given, have left this country. My investigations in Asia disclose that they will return to Hong Kong and that they will go to the United States of America, with all the skills that they have acquired here. The United States and Canada are seeking those skills. They are getting them; we are losing them. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, to convey these sentiments to the Minister for Immigration and to ask that in future he not differentiate between Asians and Europeans in this vital sphere. I ask the Minister for Immigration to confer with the authorities in New- South Wales to ensure that 2-year residencies are recognised as important and integral parts of their training in future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 11.59 p.m. until Tuesday, 20 April at 2.30 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice:  ti) Is he able to say whether (a) estimates  of  the number of destitute orphans in Vietnam now exceed 150,000, and (b) there are several thousand abandoned children in institutions. 
Has Miss Rosemary Taylor, an Australian who runs an orphanage in Saigon, been instructed in facilitating adoptions in European countries and the United States of America. 
Has she now declined to undertake any more Australian adoptions because of the lack  of  co-operation of Australian authorities. 
Is it a fact that large numbers of Australians are interested in following the example of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and  Mrs Barnard  in adopting Vietnamese orphans. 
Will he, in the interests of humanity, instruct his Department and the Australian Embassy in Saigon to give maximum help and assistance in fulfilling the needs for documentation and transportation for orphans being adopted by Australians. 
Will he arrange for his Department to contact Miss Taylor and assure her that Australia is no less humane and willing to help than the United Slates of America and European countries. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What stage has he reached in his consideration of dried fruits industry stabilisation proposals following the completion of his Department's investigation of those proposals. 
Will he, having recently succeeded to the portfolio of Primary Industry, arrange to visit the dried fruit growing areas of New South Wales and Victoria and confer with industry representatives on the spot. 
Yes, but not to the same degree. I accept the interjection. When the New South Wales State Government decided to open an office in Tokyo it was concerned that the Commonwealth was not doing enough. Again this was a condemnation but in no respect is Tokyo or Washington allowed to swirl at this level of expenditure that we have in London. This matter should be examined as a matter of urgency. 
The fact that some members of the Commonwealth may still have imperial hangovers, as we do, is no excuse to continue something which obviously is not working well. If it was working well the level of expenditure by the States need not be at these levels. We should streamline the present situation and have it examined in conjunction with the States. 
This is the logical thing to do. We would then have the advantage of the expertise which is not available in the Prime Minister's Department. I wish to draw attention to the item of expenditure under the Department of Immigration involving SI. 2m for embarkation and passage costs. This item covers special passages under the assistance programme and one or two other matters. As honourable members would well know we have a multi-million dollar programme for the promotion of migration. We also make available money in a special way in various countries for assisted passages. In regard to the quality of the people that we need I want to direct attention to a group of people whose migration to Australia would not cost us any money at all. It would not involve the Commonwealth in any activity in finding jobs or accommodation for these people. This group of people would not number more than a few hundred families of Portuguese citizenship. These people are in Macao, which is almost a pimple on the great body of mainland China, the People's Republic of China, the former Red China or whatever terminology may be prevalent in Government circles at this time. Macao is a very small area which has been held by Portugal for some centuries. There are a few hundred families in Macao who have links with Australia and who desire to come to this country. Most of them are skilled in one way or another. People in Australia have nominated many of them. Houses and jobs are available for them in Australia and they have ready sponsors. These people also have very high character references. They are well known to he Australian authorities just across the bay in Hong Kong. 
I suggest that the future of Macao is in some question. Macao is a European pimple on the end of a great body. I am sure the honourable member knows how difficult it is to be a pimple at any time. But at this time Macao has special difficulties. As I have said, these people want to come to Australia and they have connections here. They would represent a very fine group of people. Incidentally, some of these people would wish to settle in country areas. Indeed, most have their connections in country areas. 
In view of what I have said it is strange that they are not permitted to come here. They are Portuguese citizens and while all of them are not highly qualified they have useful qualifications. They have very fine families and very nice children. I have met some of them. They are well and favourably known to our authorities. Everything would appear in order so that they could come here. In addition we would not have the difficulties of passages or the difficulties of looking after them once they came here. These people obviously would settle particularly well into the community because they have links with local church bodies and that sort of thing. Also, there are no great language difficulties because many of them have studied English at Hong Kong. Indeed, many have migrated to Hong Kong which is a British territory. However, as I said before, the people interested in coming to Australia are Portuguese citizens in Macao. 
I pose the question: How can it possibly be that such a desirable and fine group of migrants are not permitted to obtain visas? What possible reason could there be for this? Surely the reason could not be that the ancestors of these Portuguese citizens at one time or other were attracted to the gentle flowers of China? Surely (he reason could not be that that contribution to the bloodstream has an association with a nonracial migration policy that has been proclaimed recently? Whatever the reason is, the decision stands. 
I suggest that it is this kind of decision which gives us an unnecessarily ugly visage in neighbouring countries. I hope that the Minister for Immigration will look into this matter. This decision was a ministerial one - I know this because I have checked it - and the previous Minister for Immigration, who is now the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  indicated that he made it. I hope that this decision is reviewed. There is obviously no valid reason why it should not be reviewed. If there is a reason, the House and the nation should be told because surely this case which concerns a few hundred families is a test of our good attitude in this matter. I am very desirous and jealous of our good name in neighbouring countries. 
Yes, I have been to Macao. Another matter I wish to comment concerns the Department of Trade and Industry. We desire to see our trade position improved in many directions. This is not the first time I have drawn attention to what I regard as serious imbalances in our international trade. In fact, on one occasion when I used a figure of $ 10,000m as the deficit in the current account of our trade with the United States of America and the United Kingdom, one very good friend decided that this could not possibly be so and he reduced the amount to $ 1,000m. But unfortunately this was the case. 
At the moment there is a need to develop new markets and find new initiatives for our trade. Whenever we talk about new markets and new initiatives someone says: 'Oh, we are doing everything that can possibly be done'. As an example of the sort of thing that happens, the other day I was speaking to one of our Australian entrepreneurs who wanted to find a market for his milk-based product. He found that if he was to develop a new outlet he would have to do it himself. He went to the southern Americas and came back with orders for $2m worth of milk powder products. He did this on his own initiative. Also, I have met people from national buying agencies overseas who have come into Australia with orders in their pockets for a whole range of products which we very rarely have readily available. 
One of the things I suggest to the Department of Trade and Industry is that it should give consideration to something that was done with great success in other spheres in the United States during the regime of  President  Kennedy. The  President  found that among the captains of industry and the enterpreneurs in the United States there were men who were prepared to put their know-how at the disposal of the nation for $1 a year. It has been suggested that we do not have this type of person in Australia. In fact we have. We have Australian entrepreneurs who would be willing to undertake new initiatives if they were given a lead to do so. 
It is pretty obvious that the present machinery is inadequate. It is inadequate when we consider that when a man in Asia wishes to buy products from Australia and wants to quote c.i.f ., which means that everything is organised and a consolidated quote is given to him, very often he cannot get such a quote and he is given a f.o.b. price. This means that he has to come down to Australia and make his own arrangements. He has to find shipping. He has to take the responsibility for getting his product from Australia to wherever he is located. Time and time again this problem has come up in regard to the sale of primary products to Asian nations, particularly in Singapore. An f.o.b. quote is available but a c.i.f. quote is not. 
It is obvious that we cannot be satisfied with the present initiatives in trade in Australia. We are missing out in many directions. It is not sufficient to say that we will send a trade mission. Of course, this is very good public relations but public relations do not sell products. What we have to do is to be able to say to the buyer: This is the price of the product, this is the price of the supporting services to get it there and this is what you will be up for'. I think there is an urgency about new trade initiatives which perhaps has been overlooked. In many instances when people talk about great surpluses of primary products, there are no great surpluses at all. In fact, this is the position in relation to Australia generally. We have never had, with the exception of one or two products in one or two years only, great surpluses that could not be placed. Indeed, with new trade initiatives we could probably create shortages in most of the industries. 
Therefore I want to commend to the Department of Trade and Industry and to the Minister the thought that he investigate the possibility of enlisting Australian entrepreneurs who are ready and able to serve to better the trade operation of the nation by becoming dollar a year men for a year. If such a proposition were put up I believe that such men would respond to it. I believe there is no reason why we should run away from some of the challenges we face in 1971 in international trade. I believe that we should be breaking new ground in the way that I have described in the 3 - matters which I -have raised this afternoon. I commend the three.. They touch on the - streamlining of facilities. They also touch on the real problem of our image with our neighbours and the earnest of our good faith in what we say, although this might be a bit different from what we do. I repeat my third point that new initiatives are possible. On those 3 points my submission on the appropriations at this time rests. . 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lucock)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
There is an urgency about the present situation in the countryside which does not seem to penetrate the fastness of Canberra's castles, and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has given us evidence of this. The Parliament and the countryside have been listening to soothing sounds from the Government for H years during one of the worst periods which the rural half of the nation has experienced for a whole generation. But what sense of urgency has been displayed? Following on Government deci sions on wheat and the hangover of the long drought, thousands of farmers and share farmers found themselves in trouble. It was not trouble of their making. They were responsible for neither the weather nor the unexpected Government decisions. But it was obvious when this Parliament first met on that famous 1-day sitting that the crisis was growing. Yet the Government programme outlined by the GovernorGeneral indicated that all was well with the nation and that there was no crisis anywhere. 
The former Minister for Primary Industry, now the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  told the Parliament that there was no need for an urgent debate on country problems. Indeed, he attacked the very action of the Opposition in raising the question of the crisis at the first opportunity. An urgent conference was sought by banking institutions and appropriate government agencies with a view to injecting confidence and collateral into the countryside. The reply of the then Prime Minister to my request on that occasion was to tell the Parliament that rural indebtedness had increased for a 'number of reasons', but that assistance had been given and that if more was needed the Government would do what it could. There was no hint of urgency there. Then when it was obvious that the Government had made a massive miscalculation on wheat, it took continuous efforts by the Opposition and many butts and jousts with reluctant Ministers before they recognised the situation. 
The same lack of urgency has been displayed over wool. Wool prices suddenly collapsed, and it was obvious that the industry was drifting into economic difficulties. Again the Government did nothing but abuse the Opposition for raising the matter. We announced a policy within weeks; months later the Government gave birth to its answer to the wool marketing problem, and the end result of that has been that the Minister for Trade and Industry has talked about the price of wool going back up to 40c per lb in 10 years, and one of the officers of the Australian Wool Commission has talked of wool prices of 30c or 32c per lb prevailing in the future. In fact, he said that the price might be lucky to hold at 30c per lb in the next 10 years. That seems to be the 
Government's assessment of the wool situation. This has been the Government's record in relation to key industries and their problems; adjectives yes, action no. 
So we come to the fact that thousands of farmers are in trouble. The continuing inference by the Government is that there is a lack of efficiency - 'viability' is the term almost used as a synonym here - on the part of primary producers. In the one comprehensive report commissioned by the Government there were 6 main points. They were: That large numbers of Australian farmers should be helped off their farms; that company ownership would tend to replace family enterprises; that a farm mortgage loan insurance scheme should be introduced; that there should be higher interest rates to ensure that any loans that are made are not made at an uneconomic level - I think that was the term - and that land values should not rise; that there should be support for rural reconstruction boards; and that the so-called hopeless cases should be helped to sell their properties at what the Government's report called normal market values'. 
Against this philosophy the Government announced a SI 00m reconstruction scheme. Today the Minister for Primary Industry said that there are 3 categories: Those farmers who have to go, those who need some help from the rural reconstruction board and those who need no help but perhaps some debt rephasing. He makes all sorts of general statements, but there is no indication of how many farmers he has in mind should go, from where they should go or what criterion is to be applied. What does this $100m farm reconstruction scheme mean, anyway? In practical terms in New South Wales it means help for an additional 100 farmers in a single full year. That is all. There is to be no help under the scheme in that context unless the farmer is pushed to the point of bankruptcy, or just beyond. Already thousands of farmers are verging on bankruptcy and they are being refused assistance because in New South Wales the Rural Reconstruction Board just has not got the money. Applications are coming in from some areas at 10 times the previous rate. The Board is able to help only a minority of applicants because, again, it does not have the finance. Decisions are being forced on the Board through this lack of money. As a result of turning down the applications, forced sales and court proceedings are taking place and families are going. All this has flowed from the Commonwealth's delay and the Commonwealth's lack of action in this regard. 
The Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales has at its disposal expertise which could tackle the worst cases in the most effective way. I repeat again that the Board is being denied the funds to do so. More than half the producers in trouble will have to be denied help unless the Commonwealth faces up to its responsibilities. The delay is disastrous. Every week the economic freeze worsens. The Commonwealth has had a duty to act over the months in fact, over the last H years. The alibi that was given to us by the Minister today is that the States have procrastinated; that it is the States which are at fault. But what have the States been concerned about? They have been concerned about the very conditions of this $100m reconstruction scheme, because the Commonwealth wants to see higher interest rates and to ensure that there is no rise in land values. But the States have contested this. In fact, they are so concerned about the matter that recently the Victorian Minister said that the scheme could very well add to the present hardships and create new disasters. So there is reason for the States to have had doubts about the Commonwealth and the way in which it has offered the money to them. 
The Minister did not tell us today what the criteria will be for the farmers who have to go, and that was the point he made - that many will have to go. He made that statement clearly and definitely again today. So, as I say, we have been waiting for this basic sum of money. It is not a huge sum of money. The construction of one new complex in Melbourne will cost about the same sum of money. But this is the answer which the Government so far has given; it has delayed implementation of the scheme for months. But what is happening at the moment? For example, the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales could give further assistance if large first mortgages were re-scheduled. Knowing that this is so, I took the precaution to contact the Minister for Primary Industry about one case in which the Board was willing to take action on the balance of the problems if the Commonwealth would come in on the first mortgage. I am referring to the re-scheduling of the first mortgage. This is what the Minister told me: 
While other assistance such as rural loans insurance scheme is under active consideration the introduction of such a scheme is necessarily complex and the Government is not yet in a position to decide how it might be implemented. For this reason regret unable to encourage - 
And I suppress the name of my constituent -  to think Commonwealth assistance can be provided to meet his circumstances. 
That farmer will go. This has been going on for some considerable time - week after week and month after month - and we are still in the same position. The Minister says that he will come in and make a second reading speech on the matter which will fix it all up. In relation to this one aspect alone, I repeat that this $100m reconstruction scheme which sounds so magnificent probably will mean, so far as New South Wales is concerned, some assistance to only an additional 100 farmers who are bankrupt or facing bankruptcy. So let us have a look at what else can and should be done. In fact, the Government has given the impression that farmers by and large have great inefficiencies and that many of them will have to get big or get out. Just how many farmers will be affected? I submit not more than 10 per cent of farmers across the nation, and at the present time most economists would put the figure at IS per cent at the most. So when the Government is talking about reconstruction and helping people to get off their properties, to get out of the countryside, this is the number of farmers about which the Government is talking at the moment. According to the economists, this figure is 15 per cent. But 10 per cent, I submit, is probably nearer the figure. But what about those who have been exposed to the Government's economic blizzard to which the honourable member for Dawson referred? What about those others? The farm loan insurance scheme is not operating at all at the moment. 
The other point that I wish to raise in the minute remaining to me is that we already have seen created within the Department of Primary Industry a section on farm reconstruction. But a veil of secrecy has been drawn over this section. It has been created. Officers are working there. No statement has been made in the Parliament as to what this section is supposed to do, how many officers there are in it or what their brief is. This is a contempt of the Parliament and of the countryside. We should know what is intended by that unit which has been created and which is operating. Perhaps the Government is ashamed of the fact that it set this section up and it is not quite sure what the officers have to do. Well, I think that the Parliament has the right to know. I place a plea before the Government today to tear away the veil of secrecy, first, on its philosophy touching on this 'get big or get out' theory, secondly, on what it has done already administratively and in secret and, thirdly, on what its estimate is of the Austraiian farming population that will be banished from the countryside at the present time. Of course this matter is urgent. The countryside is in crisis. The Government is in limbo. The Parliament is being diverted by sympathetic symphonies by Ministers who have an infinite capacity to fiddle interminably. 
My friend and colleague from Tasmania, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  who has just resumed his seat, is quite right when he stresses the importance of the pig industry at the present time. Figures indicate that the industry is worth $100m annually to producers, so it is no small measure that we are dealing with this evening. As honourable members know, the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. In fact, it has always been in favour of additional research and therefore there is no quarrel with the concept of the Bill. However, there are 2 points that I wish to raise. The first could be associated with the apparent departure from what has been a proclaimed principle of the Government in relation to industrial matters. The Government usually reiterates with great regularity that any measure will only come before this House from the Government side if the industry has specifically asked for it and if there is an overwhelming degree of unanimity. Perhaps, on this particular measure, the Government feels that there has been that degree of unanimity but I should like the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to explain to the Parliament and to the pig producers concerned just what his attitude is to the 2 points raised by Victoria. The Pig Division of the Victorian Farmers Union has submitted that the introduction of a compulsory levy is premature and, alternatively, that the matter . should be determined by a poll. It has put these views sincerely. Of course, it has a significant stake in the pig industry. It submits also that a perusal of paragraph (a) of sub-clause (1.) of clause 9 of the Bill would indicate that this denies any right to the Victorian Farmers Union Pig Division or the pig section of the Farmers and Graziers Association of Queensland to be represented on the advisory board which is to be set up under the Bill to advise the Minister. As a principle is involved here I feel that the Minister should explain exactly what attitude has been taken in relation to these points. 
The other major matter that 1 refer to was touched on by the honourable member for Braddon when he said that there is a considerable need to recognise the desirability of further extension work in this industry. Undoubtedly this has been a Cinderella industry from the point of review of research and extension services. Much more interest is being taken now in the pig industry and not only by producers. With increasing prices of many other commodities pork, in recent years, has come more within the scope of the average pocket. Australia is not known as a pork-eating nation, and sometimes I think that there is less pork in Sydney than there is in Jerusa- lem these days. I say that with great respect, but there is certainly an upsurge of interest in pork, so additional research would be welcomed. 
Another point that should be taken into account is that research without adequate agricultural extension is sterile in respect of industry advancement. The Victorian Department of Agriculture, for example, maintains one piggery adviser to service the State's 9,000 pig producers. This means that the adviser would be required to contact 45 pig raisers each working day to see every producer once a year. Of course this is not possible. In New South Wales and in the other States there is a need to look at the level of extension services. Australia's extension services generally - and I speak with some deep feeling on the matter in view of my association with them - are probably the most fragmented in the world. They are not as effective as they might be not only in numbers but also in the recognition of the work that is put in hand and in the status of the workers. The Australian extension worker is still a long way behind the research worker in status and in recognition. It is not possible for a person to enter into extension work in a State or Commonwealth department and remain in that work as he marches the ladder of recognition and salary for as long as .. he would if he were a research worker. A person has to get out of extension work and go into administration if he is to keep pace with his research colleagues. This is not sound agricultural practice nor is it sound national administration, but this is the present position. It applies in this industry and in other industries. If this $300,000 for research work is to be utilised effectively it is necessary to ensure that a pipeline is available for research results to be transmitted for implementation in the paddock. In times past a 10-year delay has been experienced in getting a research result in the laboratory applied in a practical way. Australian agriculture cannot afford that sort of delay in 1971. It has not been able to afford it for some time but because of the fragmented nature of our extension services and the lack of recognition we have had to put. up with this. 
I submit that in relation to this legislation and any other legislation that comes before this House seeking more money for research and asking us to validate efforts to secure more money from growers for research the only criterion we should be asked to apply is: 'How will this be reflected in the dollars and cents return to producers?'. It is not an abstract matter. It is not a university project in which addition to human knowledge is the only criterion. This legislation is designed to help the efficiency of the industry and the individual producer. This cannot be done  in research alone or by any means of research alone. It is essential for it to be done by an integration of research and extension services. In this regard I think that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  should apply himself to the problem which obviously unfolds in relation to this measure, but this is only one problem. 
It is typical of many of the industries of this nation today that there is this gap between research and extension. Because there is this fragmentation of extension services it often happens that research will run a long way ahead of extension. It sometimes happens that extension catches up with research and there is a need to stimulate research activity. They do not run together in harness. What happens is that one gets ahead of the other and whichever it is is a matter for concern. This legislation proposes an increase in research work. The question we must ask is: 'Are we to provide adequately for an increase in extension activity to enable the research to be applied practically?'. This is a matter to which the Minister should address himself in his reply. I have said in other places at other times in relation to the recognition of the work of extension people that some national attempt should be made to draw together the fragments of extension. I have submitted that the establishment of a national academy of extension would go a long way to provide the recognition and the status for an extension officer that is at present enjoyed by a research officer. I think that if we could apply ourselves to this we would keep in extension services many men who are being lost to administration. We would also ensure that there is the most effective use of research funds such as we are called upon to allocate under this legislation. 
We are being called upon, in effect, to authorise the extraction of money from pig producers to go to research. It is not just research alone that we are interested in; it is the end result. Here there is a clear responsibility on the Minister to say whether the Government's dictum in relation to industry consultation has been set to one side. This is the first thing to which the Minister should apply himself. Secondly I ask the Minister to tell us whether he has clearly in mind what will happen to the research results which we hope will flow from the additional funds. I commend the points I have raised to the Minister for his attention and I await his reply with interest. 

 - Mr Chairman, 1 have a number of questions that I wish to ask of the Minister. These questions arise out Of some of the points that I raised at the second reading stage of the Bill and relate to this clause. The Minister did not reply to the points I raised. I should point out that the Minister originally wished for 5 years in which to gain evidence and demand a prosecution. Perhaps he was thinking that because there was only one pig extension officer to every 9,000 pig producers, which would mean his duties would involve him in contacting 45 pig raisers each working day in order to see that total each year, it would take some years to make even contact in relation to the provisions of this Bill. I think that the Minister should have referred to the contact there was to be by the responsible authorities with pig producers in relation to not only the Bill and its implementation but also the research to which I referred earlier in relation to the other measure. I think the 2 points come together here. 
What contact is to be made regularly through our extension and inspectorial services with the pig producers? After all, we have these measures, there are these penalties and there are these objectives in relation to research. I think the Minister was failing a little in his duty in not in the earlier measure applying himself to the gap which exists in the extension services. This carries on to the inspectorial services,, too, because very often they are related to the activities of State governments. I think the Minister may have overlooked these points. Perhaps he will apply himself to the contact which is going to be made under this legislation with the pig producers as individuals through the extension and inspectorial services. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he authorised a change in taxation procedures which denies broiler growers recognition as primary producers. 
If so, has it been drawn to his attention that such action represents an attack on a still viable primary industry. 
Has the present or past Minister for Primary Industry made representations on behalf of broiler growers to reinterpret the Act to grant broiler growers primary industry status. 
Will he consider any decision to withdraw recognition of this status to Australian enterprise in this industry. 
Is the Treasurer aware that 30 per cent of all Australia's company income is currently going overseas to service Australia's foreign debts? Is he further aware that it has. been estimated that by 1974 the outflow of money to service foreign investment in Australia will exceed the inflow by foreign investors? If he is aware of these developments, is he concerned? If he is concerned, will he tell the House what steps he has in view to rectify a situation in which we as a country are putting ourselves in pawn for the rest of the century? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
 I was in somewhat of a dilemma, but I am glad that the Committee is dealing with the Bill as a whole because I wanted to make one or two points which would be difficult to tie to particular clauses of the Bill. I direct attention particularly to the fact that we, as the Opposition, have determined to oppose the action that the Government has taken in relation to the 23 items, for the one simple reason- and I make it plain that this is the reason as far as I am concerned - that inadequate information was supplied. This has been stated tonight, but I wanted to make it quite specific in relation to one of the reports, just taking it as an example. Earlier the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and other honourable members on this side of the House who are concerned about rejecting the Government's proposals referred to this inadequacy of information and also, if I might say, to the specious economic arguments and misinterpretations of fact. 
For very obvious reasons, because of my rural interests one of the Tariff Board reports in which I was particularly interested was the one relating to cherries, lt contained statements relating to economics which would be questioned by anyone in the sphere of economics. Honourable members should look also at the actual facts of the situation in relation to this industry - in relation to what is being done at the moment and in relation to what the Tariff Board imagines would flow from its decisions. 
I do not criticise the Tariff Board in a narrow or negative way. Our criticisms - and my own criticisms - are attached to the fact that the whole tariff making apparatus is just plainly inadequate. It is not fair to the Parliament and it is not just to the Committee to ask us to make determinations. The determinations that we are being asked to make at this stage of the Committee provide for increases in some items and for decreases in other items. These determinations in fact spell the death knell of one particular industry. This industry, of course, is the agricultural machinery industry. We are asked in the course of this Bill to put the final nail in the coffin. Perhaps it is true that the patient is not merely sick but has died. However, I would suggest that this marks a pretty important moment for an industry which was once our pride, which gave international leads and which was a significant industry at one time. All of us in the Parliament are asked to nail the lid on the coffin although we have had a totally inadequate presentation of data. This is the main bone of contention in relation to the items before us tonight. 
Of course, there have been many references to free trade and protection. I suggest that these references are old echoes of the last century. Surely they have no place in a modern parliamentary debate on tariffs. We should be relating what we want to see developed to the needs of the nation as a whole. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  almost spoke his own panegyric this evening. He said: My long and lonely road has brought me victory and satisfaction'. The victory and satisfaction of the honourable member take the form of the statement which was made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  earlier today. The statement by the Minister is so hedged with qualifications that it means only one thing - that there is to be a review. But on what will this review be based? There has been great breast beating in some quarters about i the celebrated points of reference. But these points of reference, too, are so qualified and hedged that they can mean anything or nothing. So what we have had from the Minister today, except for a series of qualifications of what he has said before, is nothing. As a result we are still no wiser as to what is intended. The honourable member for Lalor made this point very clearly. 
I want to draw attention to one factor that comes up very importantly in the matter of tariffs. This was referred to earlier today. Since 1932 there have been specific guide lines so far as the Tariff Board is concerned. The guide lines relating to trade agreements with the United Kingdom were endorsed again in 1957. Therefore, for 40 years, as a result of decisions which originated a generation ago, the Tariff Board has had specific guide lines. One specific guide line is that protection would bs afforded only to those Australian industries reasonably assured of sound opportunities for success. The second one is that protection would not exceed a level which would give United Kingdom industry full opportunity for reasonable competition on the basis of the relative costs of economic and efficient production. 
No-one has attempted for a very long time to examine what that means in practice. I point out that as a result of that tariff making decision we have been importing inflation and inefficiency for a very long time to the tune, I submit, of 30 per cent on our added costs on this section alone. I invite the Minister to apply himself to how tariff racketeering can take place in relation to this section of Government policy. I shall cite 2 examples of this type of tariff racketeering which can relate all along the line. Two years ago a primary industry leader was awarded a Churchill scholarship. He went to California with a brief to see whether there were ways of improving primary production in the irrigation area. He saw a new type of machine which had never been seen in 
Australia. There were only 3 areas in the whole country where it might be used. He arranged, in conjunction with a grower cooperative, to import the machine. The machine arrived. A 55 per cent duty was charged. There was an appeal on the ground that this was an experimental purchase - indeed, it was a prototype. Eventually only 7i per cent was retained. This decision was challenged and half a year later it was waived. The investigations over many long months had spanned not only Australian industry but also British industry. As this agreement operates at the moment, if the British Board of Trade had said that it could provide this machine in the United Kingdom, although the crop was not even grown there, our innovator would have had to pay up the 7i per cent. It is automatic. That is part of the 30 per cent cost impost brought about by the operation of a system based not on production, not on men employed, not on a real and valid industry, but simply on the say-so of the Board of Trade and a clerical officer. 
The other example I want to give to the Committee concerns something that happened not so long ago when a printer and publisher in a capital city decided to install machinery for manufacturing stationery for digital computers. A company representative visited Europe, the United States and the United Kingdom. In England he found that most firms were using European machines but one man had evolved his own, built it and used it. In the United States the Australian found a machine which was three times faster and which operated at less than half the cost. Naturally he bought it. But the British Board of Trade said that despite the fact that their own people were using imported machines the United Kingdom could provide a machine. They said therefore: 'You will pay the 7i per cent'. That was the decision conveyed through our own tariff making process. 
Let us look now at this procedure which has been going on for 18 months or perhaps 2 years. When someone wants to import something from overseas without facing a crushing tariff burden he submits to the Department of Customs and Excise that it is not available in Australia. He must show what inquiries he has made. The Department refuses his application for by-law entry on the evidence presented and gives him a month to appeal. He does so and then the Department tells him that it will examine the matter in 4 months and that he must not bother the Department in the mean time. This delay of 4 months adds to costs. What you find very often is that the inquiries made by the Departmet amount in fact to a phone call to somebody in Australia. The person called is asked: 'Can you provide this?' Normally he will say: 'Yes'. The Department asks whether he can provide it, not whether he has one on the floor. This is not adequate at all. I have known this to happen in industries with which I have close and continuing connection. It means that you open the door of tariff racketeering because of the machinery and the procedures that apply. The onus always is on the importer in this regard so time and again the 74 per cent is added when it should not be added. This means that there is an additional 7$ per cent on internal prices and the tendency generally is to come up to this price level. The result is anything from a 194 per cent to 22 per cent addition to cost attributable to this factor alone. This is an aspect of tariff procedure which has long been overdue for examination. 
For the very first time I find myself in sympathy, or empathy, with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I thought that be argued the Opposition's case very well, in the dying moments of this debate, for a strengthening of the Tariff Board's machinery to bring down more adequate reports. 1 accept that argument. The point I rose to make was in connection with the effect of tariffs in relation to foreign investment. This point has been totally overlooked. Tariff protection for manufacturing activities encourages and has encouraged much of the foreign capital inflow into manufacturing production. Some of these foreign funds have been attracted into highly protected industries and sometimes they have flowed into the least efficient sectors of manufacturing industry. There is no doubt that there is an argument here, in our examination of the overall policy, for us to see to it that the tariff is used as as instrument to guide foreign investment into those avenues which will be of best return to our nation and no-one else's. 
For example, we could apply tariffs when we come to consider restrictive export franchise. The Department of Trade and Industry made an examination and found evidence of some 1,100 agreements on restrictive export franchise among 700 companies. In some cases higher production costs in Australia might curtail exports, but it is very much more likely that the companies could export considerably more if restrictions were not placed on them. In addition, some companies might be able to decrease unit costs if they could produce for a larger market and thus become more competitive. I think that we should be taking a regional view. This is where tariffs can be a useful instrument. I commend this thought to the Minister and to the Committee. 
The mathematics of tariffs in relation to primary industry appear to point to one thing that needs to be done. It has been pointed out by the Tariff Board  -  I am grateful to the Board for having done so - that the value of tariffs to industry is $2,700m, of which primary industry receives perhaps $200m. Obviously, with primary industry contributing to half of the exports of the nation there is a need to consider some tariff compensation along the lines already applying in New Zealand. The New Zealand Government permits the entry of various materials duty free to keep costs down and to enable some of its primary producers at least to compete on export markets. This is something which should be considered and which should be done. Again, it comes back to our overall submission that the tariff making machinery is not adequate to take into account all these factors that have been raised tonight. I rest on that point. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many countries pay social services to their citizens or former citizens now resident in Australia. 
Will the Government reconsider past refusals to enable Australian citizens to take their pensions with them wherever they may go and wherever they may settle. 

 Mr Speaker- 

Government members - Oh, ner! 
I am very interested to find at this hour of the morning groans from the Government benches. But I would remind honourable members opposite that the timetable is not the making of the Opposition but of the Government. If they are not very interested in the Parliament, I suggest that they do what is in their minds and adjourn it and go home. I have some points to submit and I intend to submit them. 
I thank the honourable member. I am glad that Queensland is still a member of the union. I wanted to say particularly in relation to the Supply Bills, which are associated with expenditure and the economics of the nation, that Australia in economic terms represents the last of the Mohicans. Alone among the advanced nations of the world we turn our back completely on national planning. Alone among the nations of the world we allow the waste and drift which is inevitable in a situation where the dictum of the Government is that the least government is the best government. But even with this dictum it is a source of surprise and regret that Australia has failed to seek an association with one of the most powerful and useful organisations in the world in furthering economic growth. I refer to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
That organisation, which began its official existence in 1961, succeeded the Organisation of European Economic Cooperation, whose original tasks were the great co-operative effort which led to the European recovery from the disaster oi World War II. This body was one of the handmaidens at the rebirth of Europe as one of the most powerful economic forces in the world today - from the ruins of war to a renaissance which is still in full flower. The great task of the organisation has been to survey the whole field of economic prospects for the vast community of the 21 nations now comprising this body. It set a growth target for the decade of 1960-70 of 50 per cent on the real gross national product. 
Let me quote to the House the three aims of the organisation in case there is some doubt as to what it is and how it functions. Its aims are to achieve the highest sustainable economic growth and employment and a rising standard of living in member countries while maintaining financial stability, and thus to contribute to the development of world economy; to contribute to sound economic expansion in member as well as non-member countries in the process of economic development and to contribute to the expansion of world trade on a multilateral, non-discriminatory basis in accordance with international obligations. The obligations of member countries, to which they have agreed, are to promote the efficient use of their economic resources; in the scientific and technological field, to promote the development of their resources; encourage research and promote vocational training; to pursue policies designed to achieve economic growth and internal and external financial stability and to avoid  developments which might, endanger their economies or those of other countries; to pursue their efforts to reduce or abolish obstacles to the exchange of goods and services and current payments and maintain and extend the liberalisation of capital movements; and to contribute to the economic development of both member and non-member countries in the process of economic development by appropriate means and, in particular, by the flow of capital to those countries, having regard to the importance to their economies of receiving technical assistance and of securing export markets. There is no doubt as to how these objectives relate to our own situation. 
The organisation has helped to get sluggish economies on the move again. It has been a magnificent resource to member states. Yet Australia so far has chosen to ignore an instrument which has been used successfully by nations such as Japan and Germany, and in fact all the member nations of the European Economic Community. On our economic performance we need this body and its expertise and help as much as, in fact more than, many of the 21 nations concerned. Australians have been given by the Government over 21 years a completely false picture of the economic growth of our nation. The advance in real terms over the past decade or so has been of the order of only10 per cent to 2 per cent. At a meeting just recently someone said that if we are not careful we will not even be able to achieve in real terms the rate of growth in Ireland. I thought it was rather interesting to see what Ireland's growth rate had been over the same period. It was approximately twice that of our own. Surely the need is obvious. We are wallowing in sloth compared with the leap forward of many of the 21 nations associated with the OECD. 
Let us examine some of the benefits that would accrue even to us as members of Parliament as well as to the nation. Each year at this time the 'OECD Observer', which I am glad to say we have in the Parliament, produces the latest statistics showing the economic pattern of OECD countries, incentives to invest in developing countries, the need for intergovernmental co-operation on the environment and policy implications of increased growth in higher education. When we look at the latest publication we notice that it gives comparisons which are valid between the various member countries. It would be interesting to know exactly where Australia stands in relation to these countries - not the statistics chosen by this Government or the figures chosen by any organisation that might have an interest in presenting them in a particular way, but valid comparisons with other states and other economies. From the Australian 'Year Book' we can fill in a number of the tables but certainly not all of them. It could be noticed too that the countries of the organisations are dominant trading partners, including the United States, Britain and Japan, which together must account for at least 80 per cent of our overseas trade. But it seems illogical that we have never taken up the opportunity to have our economic matters sorted out and clarified by this group. So I ask the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is seated at the table, to convey to the Treasurer these questions: Why are we not members of the OECD? Is it our intention one day to become a member of this organisation? I appreciate that the answers are not within the purview of the Minister at the table but I would appreciate it if he would pose these questions to the responsible Minister. 
I also direct attention in particular to the article in this journal on the policy implications of the growth in higher education. This is a summary of a 7-year statistical survey which has just appeared. It would be extremely interesting to have Australia's figures for comparison. The interesting curves on page 17 of the report indicate the degree to which Japan is pushing forward with her first level university degrees. If this process continues overlong, I submit there is a real possibility, in fact little doubt, that Australian minerals and agriculture will lie largely at the control of Japan, not because of any monetary relationships but simply because we have not taught our people to be technically competitively efficient or in the long run economically competitively efficient. It will be noted in the report that Japan, which has a low gross national product per capita, is third on the list of enrolment rates in higher education. This is the sort of data to which we can apply ourselves. We can all do this as members of Parliament and surely the Government would find this a useful tool. I do not think we can say that the nations associated with this body have not benefited. Consequently I pose the question in this debate particularly, because I feel that great benefits in the economic sphere would flow from our membership of this proven organisation in the field of economics. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the original agreement between the Australian Government and the General Motors Corporation of the United States of America for the establishment of a subsidiary in Australia provide for (a) capital to be brought into Australia, (b) Australian shareholders and (c) publication of validated company balance sheets covering the subsidiary. 
If so, (a) how much capital was brought in, (b) what was the extent of Australian shareholding, (c) when was the provision for the publication of balance sheets abrogated and (d) when was Australian shareholding terminated. 
What is the aggregate amount of profits and payments repatriated overseas by G.M.H. since its inception. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and . Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious -deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classed and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of. one thousand million dollars is required oyer, the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act ,1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take Immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise also on the debate on the motion that the House do now adjourn to say that I am extremely disappointed and regretful that a measure as important as the International Wheat Agreement Bill came before the House and was passed without debate as a result of a misunderstanding. I am not in a position to go into the details of the misunderstanding. As far as I am concerned, the Bill would come on at 9.30 p.m., due to the absence of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I understand - and I accept - the statement made by the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  who has just resumed his seat, that as far as he was concerned he was acting in good faith. There is no argument in regard to that. I express my regret and my sincere concern that this Bill should have been passed. I am also concerned about the arrangement of the business of the Parliament. I seem to recall that in the early hours of last Friday morning a measure involving the voting of $48m for foreign aid projects came before this House. We were asked, after many long hours in this chamber and in the Parliament generally, to apply ourselves to this. Against that background there is the fact, I remind honourable members, that we were due also to deal with several other matters. What happened was that we voted for the expenditure of $48m with scarcely a look at the Bill. A protest was entered on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who felt very keenly about the matter. He said that we should be reviewing the whole gamut of international aid in a decade that he referred to as being a decade of dismal failure and not of development. We had no opportunity to debate that matter sensibly. 
As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has pointed out, it has been made known already that we are likely to sit for 2 sessions till 6 a.m. I do not lay the blame for this sin - the sin it is to my way of thinking - at the door of the minor functionaries of the Government but at tha door of the Leader of the Government. I have not seen the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this chamber after 9 p.m. I have no objection to his going home to bed at 9 p.m. I think it is a very commendable thing to conserve your strength for the battle next day, but I object very strongly to an order of business which sentences all members of the House to apply themselves to great and international measures, important and of concern, at a time when nobody is fit to deal with them. This week we have coming before us measures such as the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill which could very easily decide the fate of thousands of people. This Bill was introduced into the House at about 2 a.m., if I remember rightly. It could have been 1 a.m., but it was in the wee hours of the morning. The difference between 1 a.m., 2 a.m. and 3 a.m. is not very great. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  introduced it almost like a thief in the night. He presented it to us and then left. Having read it, I do not blame him. It is disgusting. That is beside the point, but that is when it was presented to us. I am wondering when we will get a chance to debate it in detail - perhaps at 4 a.m. on Wednesday or Thursday. Is that when we will deal with it? Perhaps we will deal with it at 5 a.m. on Friday. Is this the kind of situation with which we will be confronted this week? I do not mind the Prime Minister being in bed at 9 p.m., but I object to the House being used in this way. Not only is it being used as a rubber stamp but it is also being used as a pretty weak rubber stamp. On one day we will be sitting for 20 hours if the Government's present proposals are implemented - 20 hours of straight deliberation. This is absurd. 
The incident tonight indicates that all is not well. The minor functionaries of the Government are not at fault in this. They are doing as they are told. Therefore I do not think it is important to debate it with them. I suggest to the head of the Government and to those who are responsible, that this Parliament should not be asked to legislate by exhaustion. It is an obscenity. If it is necessary to sit next week to deal with things in a proper way, let us do so. What is so important about next week? It is not the Ides of March. That has passed. Where is the concern? Are the Ministers dispersing to the 4 corners of the world or have they some conclave somewhere to which they wish to retreat? 
It might be a matter for levity if it were not so serious. I enter my protest at the programming of the House if it involves this kind of procedure. 
In regard to the International Wheat Agreement, it is all very well having international agreements, but they are only as good, as strong and as viable as those who enter into them make them. Australia, through its then Deputy Prime Minister, was led a merry dance a couple of years ago. I do not want to see that repeated. The Opposition stands for orderly marketing across the world - international co-operation. That is part of our fundamental dictum. At vital times, when matters touch on the future of our industries and our people, we do not want to be taken as fools. This happened 2 years ago when I seem to remember that the then Deputy Prime Minister went to Washington. He told the people of the countryside that he was going there to save orderly marketing across the world and to prevent the wheat growers from being thrown into a state of penury. I suppose that is what he had in mind. What he was doing was building a monumental alibi for this Government to impose a wheat rationing system in the middle of a season. In the preparation of that political alibi he went to Washington. He used the device of sending to as many people as possible in the community advice that he had instructed that there be an abatement, I think he called it, of wheat selling. That meant a pulling back in our marketing, a reduction in our marketing effort. 
There has been much criticism of the Opposition's references to wheat. I have noticed that whenever anything good happens the Government takes credit for it. Whenever anything bad happens it seems to be the inadequacy of the Wheat Board that is the cause. In this instance there was an inference by the Government in the operations of wheat trading as practised by the Board. At the tune members of the Board said this. They said that if the Government did not stop its policies and did not cease interfering in the wheat trade, as they saw it, we would be in more trouble than we were at that time. Why were we in trouble? We were in trouble because although we had secured an additional 2 per cent of the world market, the United States of America and Canada had lost 10 per cent - not to us but to Russia and eastern Europe. So we stepped down to help the poor stuggling United States farmer who, incidentally, receives about $3m annually in subsidies. We stepped down. We abated our effort, in the words of the previous  Deputy  Prime Minister, so that those countries would be able to recover their position. It was an interesting exercise. The leaders met in Washington. The Wall Street Journal' of the next day said: 
We understand  a  gentlemen's agreement was reached, and this was at the insistence of the Deputy Prime Minister  of  Australia. We have no doubt that an agreement was reached, but we suspect there will be  a stave  shortage of gentlemen. 
And so there was. The French, for example, sold the whole of their crop by March that year. This was 1970. We were hamstrung by Government interference. All that the Gaullist gesture made by the then  Deputy  Prime Minister did was to disadvantage ourselves, lt did not stop anyone. If honourable members have any doubt about that, at the time when our Government was saying: 'Save the agreement', the Canadian Minister for Agriculture said that it had been decided to suspend it. The West German Minister said that the agreement was a plucked chook and that nobody was observing it. The only people who observed it were ourselves - to provide a political alibi in the country side and to disadvantage our nation and the growers concerned. This was what happened. Honourable members should have been reminded of that tonight. So I say on behalf of our industries and our people: International agreements, yes; surrender, no. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
When was the report on forward national development, covering particularly minerals, forests, water and energy, first commissioned. 
How long was the report in preparation. 
When was it completed. 
How long has it been under interdepartmental consideration and what departments are involved. 
When will the report be tabled in the Parliament. 
Will he arrange for the House to debate the report. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it the proclaimed intention of Australian Citizenship Acts to ensure there is no difference in the citizenship status of a natural-born or naturalised citizen. 
If so, does the provision in the Commonwealth Crimes Act whereby Australian citizens born outside Australia may be deported in certain circumstances violate this situation. 
Does this provision apply not only to naturalised migrants but also in cases where children of Australian parents who are overseas on business or as tourists, are born outside Australia. 
Does the provision apply equally to British migrants. 
Is it a fact that many migrants resent the provision and feel that they are second-class citizens and treated differently to Australians born in this country. 
Has the provision ever been successfully used; if so, in which cases. 
Will the Government consider repealing the provision on the grounds of doubtful legality and because it contravenes the spirit and intention of Citizenship Acts. 
I rise to second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I do so for a very important reason. Important constitutional queries are before the Parliament at the present time. A similar situation arose in the State of New South Wales not so long ago. It was decided then for reasons similar to those that have been advanced today by the honourable member for Grayndler in relation to the present administration that certain things should be done. 
In New South Wales appointments similar to those proposed here were decided on. The distinguished  Speaker  of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly,  Mr Speaker  Ellis, ruled that such appointments should not have any recognition by the Chair and should not be recognised by the House. He instructed that no reference to the people appointed in this way should appear on the covers of Hansard. This was done. 
No facilities were to be made available to them and no recognition of the positions was to be made by any of the agencies under the control of  Mr Speaker.  This was done in a very considered way, as I say, by  Mr Speaker  Ellis. The result was that, although the appointments were made, they had no significance - none whatever - and I think that the people who were appointed to them were less than happy. 
Now, these are the issues that have been raised by the Opposition in a serious way. We are asked to accept a blank cheque in relation to this matter. The c nh  speaker  on the appointment of Assistant Ministers has been the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who said that he would give further consideration to the details of the way in which these Assistant Ministers will work and that he would select during the winter recess the members who would fill the positions of Assistant Ministers. The Parliament is treated wilh enough contempt now by the Prime Minister and the Government without this type of action being followed. 
The Opposition is posing very reasonable constitutional queries. Precedents exist for the queries that we put forward. I have quoted erne major precedent this afternoon. Another one was quoted by the honourable member for Grayndler. The Prime Minister again has not come into the House to deal with this matter. No-one else has risen to support it. I imagine from the silence that some shame attaches to the measure and there is no real conviction that this is something that should, be implemented. Government members are ashamed of the proposal. Obviously, if no-one is willing to defend it or to advance its cause, it has become the fiat from the Prime Minister himself. The Prime Minister, for very good reasons which were delineated by my distinguished colleague, has decided on this legislation. He has introduced it. He stands alone in pushing it through the Parliament. I suggest that it is indeed a contempt of the Parliament for the Prime Minister to say that he will, using his majority, demand that members of the Parliament agree to something that he has not even thought out at all. He says that he will think out the details in the recess, when we are not here. So much is done outside the House in the recess; so much is set aside so very carefully from the scrutiny of the Parliament that, in fact, we are- denied the opportunity of performing our proper functions, and this sort of thing has come about time and again. Here, we have another example of it. In other words, the executive of the executives has determined and decided. He has said: 'We will have these Assistant Ministers; we will use the majority, such as it is, to steamroll the measure through; we will then decide what in fact we will do with them, how they will work, and what use I, as Prime 
Minister, will make of them.' This is executive government in the most executive way. I suggest again that, because of the grave constitutional doubts raised in connection with this measure, it should be set to one side, at least until those doubts have been answered. 
What is the position of the  Speaker  in relation to this matter? How does he act on it? What a ludicrous situation it will be if in fact he finds that the measure is totally unconstitutional and that Parliament has been bludgeoned into making a decision which the House, the Parliament and half the people in the nation are querying. We are being bludgeoned into making this decision. When the  Speaker  examines it, he may find that it is not proper and right and that there will be no recognition of it. This could be the situation because we have had no response to the queries we have put forward.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I reiterate that this represents contempt of the Parliament.I join with my colleagues in registering a protest and in asking that, at least on this point alone, the matter be set to one side until the constitutional position has been properly clarified. 
 Motion (by  Mr Erwin)  put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to move an amendment to the motion before the House. I move: 
That all time allocated in connection with the Bills listed 1 to 17 be trebled to provide for adequate deliberation. 
In speaking to this amendment I point out that in these 17 Bills we have some of the most complicated measures that have presently come before the Parliament. I say presently' in terms of this session. We have the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971 which I might say-- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I point out that in relation to just one of these measures a former officer of the Taxation Office, who had 28 years of service with that office and who has already spent  61/4  hours studing the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971 and the 2 related Bills, is already faced with some problems concerning their interpretation, which he intended to raise at the Committee stage. It is interesting to note that in order to resolve the remainder of his difficulties he has to share the 40 minutes allotted to honourable members on this side of the House for the second reading debate. 
The second example I would give of the absurdity of the present allocation of time is the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971. At the Committee stage we will have 5 minutes in which to deal with a measure which affects 1 million people in the countryside of this nation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. I was misrepresented by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who, in the course of his remarks, said that no member of the Opposition who represented a rural seat represented, in fact, anyone in the real country areas and that members of the Opposition relied for their strength on the major towns in country areas. For the record of the House,  I  point out that the smallest and most distant community in my electorate gives me a 3 to 1 majority in elections. 
The debate from the Government side so far has featured an apparent silent protest by the members of the Australian Country Party, who have not yet spoken, and 2 Liberal speakers making apologies, including the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who seems to have misunderstood completely the amendment which I am now seconding. The purpose of the amendment is not to restrict but to widen the provisions of the Bill, as I will show. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  stressed that the amendment seeks to cover all Australian family enterprises although it will not be covering the new absentee landlords  of New York, London and Tokyo who have already moved into the countryside and the nation so widely. The best that the honourable member for Wannon could say about the measure was that it is a useful measure, and nothing more. In fact the Bill is the Government's proclamation that in the next 5 years 80,000 Australian farmers must leave their farms and seek new lives, homes and jobs in the overcrowded seaboard cities. 
It provides a blueprint which, if implemented, will make possible the phasing out of 120,000 farmers in this decade. The measure affects 1 million Australian men, women and children. It is a blueprint for a massive national phase-out operation. I em delighted to see the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  enjoying himself, because the measure has already become known as the 'Anthony-Sinclair blueprint for rural Australia'. It has been eagerly awaited. For the past 2 years I have been receiving letters, and applications have been made, on the basis of repeated statements from every member of the Government from the Prime Minister down - both of them - that help would be forthcoming for the rural sector. Day after day in latter times Press and radio have repeated the sweet words of promise from Ministers of the SI 00m reconstruction scheme. It has become almost a litany. 
This was to be the one big helping hand extended by the Commonwealth to people in more trouble than we have seen in rural Australia for a whole generation. It has taken the Government 2 years to produce its rural blueprint. Apparently, it has bludgeoned the States into acceptance of the scheme, but not without protest. The Vicorian Farmers Union, the Graziers Association of Victoria and the New South Wales Graziers Association have warned of the dangers of the scheme. The  President  of the Victorian Farmers Union,  Mr P.  B. Leach, said that his organisation feared that the foreshadowed collapse in land values could attract foreign capital, thereby removing the last major resource in Australia from Australian ownership. He said that the Victorian Farmers Union wanted the land to remain in the hands of Australian farmers. The Liberal Minister for Lands in Victoria,  Mr Borthwick,  said that the scheme would involve the States in the worst rural disaster in Australia's history. What a warm welcome for this great helping hand that has taken 2 years to produce. 
It is little wonder that the Minister introduced the Bill in a nigh deserted Parliament in the early hours of one morning and hoped to God nobody was listening. The Government has attempted even to prevent any Committee deliberation of the Bill, having provided 5 minutes for the Committee examination of $100m - a rate of deliberation of $20m a minute. Surely this is some kind of new record in legislative deliberation. Why has the Government adopted this tactic? The answer might be found in the Bill. Even the Minister (or Primary Industry tended to apologise for it in his second reading speech. I suspect that the real father of the Bill was the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who told a Queensland conference that it was not really the whole scheme; it was only a start and there would be more to come. But the Bill does not say that. The Bill contains no provisions for any further action. There is no indication at all of anything more than what is being provided in this piece of legislation and its quite ruthless provisions. 
The Government has delayed and procrastinated for 2 years. It has brought in this measure at a time when thousands of farmers with assets on paper have no equity left, and when a man with a property valued at $100,000 in theory is called upon to pay rates and taxes on it and yet is not making 1 per cent on his capital and if he tried to sell his so-called assets there would be no buyers. The situation is the result of the- twin disasters of drought and Government policy. The Government waits for 2 years until we are reaping the whirlwind sown by its policies, and then it unveils its philosophy. The basis of the legislation is to be found in the report on the current rural crisis commissioned by the Government. Both the Minister tor Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry have been associated with its commissioning and its adoption as the basis for this legislation. An attempt was made to keep the report secret. In fact it was tabled only after it had been leaked to a Canberra gossip publication. 
The Government wanted guidelines for rural reconstruction. It got what it wanted, and it has tried to hide them ever since. The Government has sought to hide behind sweet words of sympathy and reassuring phrases. But the report clearly spelt out the Government's attitude in. the following points: Firstly, large numbers of Australian farmers are to be helped off their farms; secondly, company ownership will tend to replace the family enterprise; thirdly, higher rates of interest will ensure that loans are not made to uneconomic farmers and that land values will not rise; fourthly, the socalled hopeless cases are to be helped to sell their properties at what are called normal market values. These are the guidelines for rural reconstruction. The Bill now before the House is based on the Government report enshrining those guidelines. I am sure that some Government members are ashamed of the measure, because either the Government is totally unaware of the magnitude of the problem or the honourable members who have been silent have discerned the real intention of the AnthonySinclair blueprint, which is to close down large areas of the countryside. 
The very sum involved is ludicrous - $100m over 6 States in 4 years. This comes down to a paltry $3m or $4m in a full year for Western Australia and Queensland, $8m for New South Wales and $5.5m for Victoria, with Tasmania receiving a hatful of coins amounting to a few hundred thousand dollars. This means in practical terms that in New South Wales help will be limited under tough conditions to perhaps an additional 90 or 100 farmers in a full year. Applications are coming in to the Rural Reconstruction Board at 10 times the rate of 2 years ago. So we have a measure that will help perhaps 90 farmers in a very limited, select category. But the final absurdity of the $100m can be gauged from the fact that wool income alone is falling at that rate every single year. We will spend $4,000m in 4 years on defence, including foreign aeroplanes that do not fly. In the same period we will spend $100m on a couple of new buildings at Circular Quay in Sydney. Yet the Government can find only $100m in 4 years to deal with the crisis in half the nation. 
This surely represents a victory for those who want to phase out primary industry in Australia. It is a strange alliance indeed to find the suburban lobby triumphant with the aid of honourable members drawn from a countryside in trouble. There is no doubt in my mind that the suburban lobby has captured both the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry. They have accepted the phaseout of the rural sector which provides more than 90 per cent of the food and fibre needs of the nation, which provided 75 per cent of all export income for a long time and which still provides half the export income of the nation. What have they applied themselves to there? Imports are rising at 7 per cent a year, and interest and dividends to foreign investors are now exceeding $860m a year and they are rising at the rate of SI 00m a year. 
We are short in our national accounts by S900m annually. How do we bridge the gap? We do it by selling up our national assets or by building more foreign assets with even heavier commitments to interest and dividend repatriation in the future. This was summed up by the predecessor of the Minister for Trade and Industry, who has now retired. He bitterly said in a moment of honesty: 'What do we do to balance the books? We sell a bit of the farm every year.' We are doing it better than we ever did it before. Yet in this situation the surburban lobby is hell bent on the phaseout of half the countryside. They do not realise in their foolishness and pseudoeconomic theories that they are striking at the very roots of national stability and balanced development. The nation is running all the way to the pawn shop. 
But let us examine what the Government intends to do with a hatful of coin that it has made available. Thousands are holding paper assets, without even carry-on funds in some cases; some are getting out; many are just hanging on; the banks are as tight as the rear end of a whale; the wool firms have virtually frozen credit operations. And the Minister for Primary Industry tells us in his second reading speech that he is basing the Bill on the needs of the wool grower on the current price of 30c a lb. Even in this he is miserably out of touch. The price of wool on average is not now 30c; it is between 26c and 27c. So his calculations are already invalid. 
Let us look closer at the measure. In one fell swoop the Government has set aside the experience of the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales, although the Commonwealth said it was to be used as a model, and doubled the interest to be charged. The respective rates are not less than 4 per cent and  6i  per cent. The Bill compounds this treason to the people by actually making these higher interest rates minimum, not maximum. They may well be 10 per cent or 12 per cent under this measure. Why have reconstruction rates deliberately been doubled? The Government told us in its report. It is to get the so-called uneconomic farmers off their properties. In practical terms it means that a man who is not making 1 per cent return at the moment is to be asked to pay 6i per cent. This is unreal. 
Let us compare this pretended rescue operation with the Canadian Farm Credit Act. It has been many years in existence and it provides loans to farmers of up to $40,000 for the purchase of farm land, buildings, livestock and equipment. Supervised loans can be made by young Canadian farmers with low equity up to 90 per cent of the appraised value of land, livestock and equipment. The loans can be for 30 years, and for most of the life of the Act 5 per cent was the interest rate. This was for farmers who had no problems, who had not been blasted with high impartiality, drought and destructive government policies. But what is this Government doing? As set out in the Schedule to this Bill, not only does the Government provide for higher interest rates but it wants appropriate security and repayment in a reasonable time that may go as long as 20 years. Can one imagine the gaggle of 
Commonwealth-State banking institutions involved in all this trying to determine what it all means and each trying hard to be tougher and more practical than the other, because the Government has laid down the guidelines in a way which puts a premium on tough action for farmers in trouble? 
Because the Government has virtually abolished the time for debate in the Committee stage, I have here to refer to the provisions for the transfer of debt. I ask the Minister what will happen to a widow who is left a property, who has no working sons but who has a young family to maintain? Who will pay the probate and death duties on an assisted farm the owner of which dies? Incredibly the Bill also indicates that only in exceptional cases will advances be made to someone who is not in immediate danger of bankruptcy. This is against every good business principle. The Government should assist now and not wait until the farmer has gone broke and then tell him that if he can meet higher interest rates and all the stringent conditions of repayment he may apply for some help. 
But we have not finished the chapter of errors which comprise this miserable legislation. When we come to the build-up provisions we find that the transfer price will ignore the Valuer-General's figures. The man has paid rates and taxes on this figure; he has gone broke on this figure; but the Government then reserves the right to come in and say: 'This figure is false. We will take over or buy up at what we call productivity value." What does that mean when the man has been running sheep and selling at prices less than for rabbits? Not only will the Government lead him to bankruptcy but it will rob him of even the remnants of his property value. Also there is no indication that States will set aside legislation to enable even recommended build-ups. Western land leaseholdings in New South Wales could be cases of difficulty here. It might be said that the States will not take any notice of the Commonwealth's intention to betray a million of our own people with a scheme like this; they will surely go their own way. The tragedy is that they cannot. The States are tied to repayments of 6 per cent for threequarters of the amount advanced by the 
Commonwealth. The Bill even instructs the States that they have to repay 34 equal half-yearly payments. 
The Commonwealth even insists that each State pledge itself to operate this scheme - to hit the farmers for the money, in other words - to enable the State to repay principal and interest to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth will make a million dollar profit from this scheme. It will be profit bought at the price of misery and dispossession. The surburban lobby of which the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry have become not only prisoners but exponents have triumphed in this. Their economic nihilism is enjoying its shining hour. The Bill does not even recognise that in many cases categories of help could be widely extended by providing for a rescheduling of the first mortgage. The Rural Reconstruction Board has not the means to meet all first mortgages and pay them out in full, but if there was a means of rescheduling them over a reasonable period it could double the number of people, even if the Commonwealth gave nothing but a guarantee in relation to that first mortgage. 
What should be done? The first earnest of the Opposition's attitude was a pledge in New South Wales by the Labor leader,  Mr Pat  Hills, that with the support of a Commonwealth Labor government $50m would be guaranteed in New South Wales alone at the subsidised interest rate of 3 per cent. The Treasury would not have to find the money; the banks would find it. The banks would love to find it with a government guarantee. The only cost would be the difference between the prevailing interest rate and the 3 per cent limit which was set by Labor policy in the State. This money would be available not only to those who were facing bankruptcy but to those who needed a helping hand before they reached that stage - this is the right approach - together with funds for the Rural Reconstruction Board to be dealt with on the basis of 30 years experience, low interest, long-term loans, debt consolidation and a moratorium where necessary while this is achieved. The countryside does not want charity, nor the miserable handouts envisaged. It wants access to credit on the same basis as every farmer in the Western world. The primary producer needs a new deal and it must start now. We are pledged to give him that new deal. 
We in the Opposition, I say with great pride. I would not want to be associated with the Minister for Primary Industry, or his colleagues, in this measure. It is his Bill and his measure. He can stand by it and go to the country with it, and good luck to him. The purpose of our amendment is to force the Government to reveal its real policy. We want to know how many farmers have to go, where they have to go from and who takes over the land? It is stated that the land that is empty is to be made available for build-ups. It cannot be done physically in all cases. Perhaps it is intended to appoint a Commonwealth auctioneer to sell to the highest bidder from Tokyo, London or New York the million acres left empty. But the inkindest cut of all, perhaps the true measure of the Commonwealth's concern, is to be found in the provision for rehabilitation. For those who it decides have to go the Government will make a loan of $1,000 at such interest as may be determined. This amount is just enough to move the furniture to the city and pay the first 2 weeks rent on a flat. The insult is obvious and the degree of concern is painfully apparent. No matter what happens in the Parliament today, I will serve notice that there will be continuing opposition to that callous provision. 
The Government has the impertinence to accuse us of some delay. It has kept us waiting for 2 years. It has produced a blueprint for destruction, not reconstruction. We say that the Government should spend a little time and tell us the truth and spell out a proper scheme with adequate sums of money. This Bill represents a high water mark of betrayal in the countryside, and I appeal to every member who has families facing ruin to reject the blueprint and join us in a call for a new deal for the countryside which has been exploited for a generation with the blessing of a government to which they have largely given their support. If ever there was a time to stand and be counted, this truly is the time. I say to my far sighted friends in the metropolis: Sad will be the day when the countryside is deserted and sold, when the money lenders' auctioneers have disposed of it around the world and  Mrs City  relies on the decisions of the board rooms of New York, London, Tokyo and other capitals for the daily bread of the family. The Government has betrayed us all. That is obvious in this measure. It should and must go if the country is to survive. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will he ask the ad-hoc committee formed in April 1969 and concerned with water quality in waterways associated with the Australian Capital Territory, to examine urgently the levels of pollution in the Mumimbidgee River at various times of the year with a review to effecting improvements. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that foreign control of Australian advertising agencies exceeds 90 per cent. 
If so, does the Government consider this to be a matter for concern. 
Will he consider following the lead of the Canadian Government and arrange to investigate the extent and implications of overseas control of advertising. 
The richest. 
June 1969 was $ 1,036m. Therefore, in one year the total net debt of the farming community had risen by $200m. This is twice the amount that is to be allocated under this programme which is supposed to be spread over a period of 4 years. 
To see just how seriously and how rapidly this debt problem has been accelerated, it is necessary only to look and see what the problem was in June 1967. At that date there was a net indebtedness of $63 lm in the farming community. This amount has doubled in 4 years. Yet this Government has the cheek to come here and say that $100m spread over 6 States for a period of 4 years will do something. Of course it will do something, but it will not do anything significant in comparison with the magnitude of the problem affecting country areas. 

 Mr SPEAKER-Order! The time alloted for the second reading stage has expired. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 Mr Speaker,  I am deeply concerned about the Government's handling of this Bill because I have a deep interest in it. When the measure first came before my colleagues - all of us assembled this morning - the information conveyed to us was that in fact the State Government of Victoria had not ratified the agreement. In fact  Sir Henry  Bolte had not signed it. No further information had come before us by that time. All of us, therefore, were very confused about the situation. I think this is a very inefficient and ineffectual way to present a most important and vital measure. I am deeply concerned about it. 
But no blame can be attached to the assembled members of the Opposition who were most anxious to consider it in a constructive way. If we were to be presented with a wrangle between the Commonwealth and the States and a. disagreement, between  Sir Henry  Bolte and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  it was not up to us to adjudicate until we had all the facts,', and these we did not have. The honourable' member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has indicated that he is most anxious that the. issues be fully understood. So have I,' because I am deeply concerned about the fate and future of the canning fruits industry. Therefore I think it is important for the whole Parliament to understand the ramifications and for honourable members to vote accordingly. 
This is a most important and vital measure and the Government has mishandled it. I deeply regret that. We have had one example already this evening in Committee. In 5 minutes we disposed of $100m. The money was disposed of at the rate of $20m a minute. That must be a new record for this form of deliberation. I do not think we should have any more of this nonsense in the national Parliament. I want to see proper consideration given to this Bill. I do not want to see a measure covering only the emergency which I know has arisen. I want to see the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  go further. I want to see him relate the decision we are asked to make on this Bill to the overall future of the industry which will be seriously affected- 
The Opposition, as has been made clear by my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  supports this measure for the very good reason that the Bill gives the genesis of the national organisation that we envisage some preliminary power. The only reservation that I can see in relation to the Bill and the measure as interpreted by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is related to the following reference the Minister made in his second reading speech: 
 The amendment made to the Act last year allows the Board either to finance the construction and equipping of complexes ' by industry interests or to construct and equip the complexes itself. . 
We are very pleased and happy about this. That seems to be the right way to proceed. However, the Minister then made the following qualification: 
The Board will only adopt the latter course if the wool trade, including wool selling brokers', wishes it to do so. 
I think we are fast approaching the time when some pretty urgent and clear decisions will have to be made by government. After all, since 1968-69 the nation has lost $360m in relation to this industry. That is a considerable loss to the nation. When we look at the loss to the grower, we can see that that has been disastrous. The. average price in the 1968-69 season - when we look at that year in relation to the price of wool it could be a generation ago - was 44.67c. The average price in the 9 months to 31st March was not 30c, as has been stated by the Minister, but 27.4c. That is a pretty dramatic drop in a very short space pf time. 
If this has been a (ong term trend and we have reached the end of a long term trend I am still at a loss to know how it could have come so suddenly. 
The reference to woollen suits is a very good one and I am grateful to the honourable member for Wakefield for his interjection. I buy a woollen suit from time to time and it costs me $84. The interesting thing is that of that $84 the grower, as the honourable member would know, would receive at the most about $2.50 at present. 
Thank you for your help,  Mr Minister.  I am always grateful for it. But you know, as well as I do, that if we doubled what the grower received for his product the actual effect on the retail cost of the suit would be very small. Therefore, it lends weight to the point I intend to develop in this debate, namely, that the pipeline of costs, is something that we have not yet studied, very adequately. I want to draw attention to the fact that there is some need for urgency. I always find it difficult when I come to Canberra to find any sense, of urgency about anything. This is exactly why I have quoted what has happened in relation to costs. In fact, as this debate began I received from the far western part pf my electorate a telegram which. reads: 
Average market price Brisbane and Sydney last week also Adelaide, this week approximately twentytwo cents pound. .Please request a suspension of all wool sales forthwith until the Australian average market price at least covers cost of production and also to protect the growers' interests  wtih  a debt moratorium during interim period. The situation urgent 'and desperate.  1 present that telegram to the House because, after all, it is a cry of despair from people who are in serious trouble and it is as well that honourable members understand this. I present it in a sincere and definite way. I am not suggesting that in this legislation we should debate all the matters in the telegram. I do not intend to do that, but I do not think that even the Minister for Primary Industry, who I know has taken a battering from me in the last 24 hours, would say that it was wrong of me to present that plea. I hope that he would not say this, because 1 present, it with the utmost sincerity. 
I draw attention also to the fact that when we talk about the price of wool, we must consider that the price of wool surely has 2 dimensions. The first dimension is the price that the growers receive - the price that my constituent quoted in his telegram, 22c per lb. The other dimension is what the buyer of this product will pay when it gets to the other side of the world, and I might say that many people on the other side of the world who buy wool for their particular purposes are quite surprised at how much they have to pay and how much the grower actually receives. This is where I devote myself to the pipeline of costs. I agree with this Bill because not only does it give some hope but it also gives authority to the Wool Board to involve itself in updating and upgrading our present archaic system of handling wool, lt is a primitive system, long out of date, which only adds to the cost of wool. Everyone is talking about how the price of wool must be competitive and viable. Of course it must, but the price of wool to me when buying a suit is entirely different from the price of wool to the grower at present. How much attention has been paid to the pipeline of costs? Obviously, some attention has been paid to it, otherwise We would not be considering this legislation nor would the Minister be saying that there are ways of improving the handling of wool by integrated complexes. There has been a reference to Yennora. I remember, when I was a member of the New South Wales Parliament, this matter coming before that Parliament. There was a great deal of enthusiasm for it because it was felt that this complex would result in a streamlining and a saving and it was hoped that at least some of the saving would actually get down to the grower. A situation exists at the moment where there have been considerable changes in respect of the shipping of wool. The container system is now under challenge. If the Wool Board, or whatever successive body we may establish, determined that this was not the right and proper way in which to handle wool, I wonder what the status of that complex would be. This is purely a technical matter and I pose the query in the spirit of seeking information. Has this complex and the support given to it been reexamined recently in relation to possible changes that could take place in the handling of wool? Only 2 things can happen. Firstly, that we continue with our adherence to the container system or, secondly, that we break away from the container system and adopt a system of moving wool by charter or in other ways. We may even reach the stage of moving wool in bulk. However what I am interested in is whether studies have been carried out into the viability of Yennora and similar complexes on the basis of a possible move from containers to non-containers or on the basis of proceeding along present lines. I think that some comparisons have to be made, because I do not think that the Opposition is particularly wedded to the present shipping arrangements or to the present handling arrangements. I wanted to make that point clear. 
The idea of streamlining is to be commended. It is a good and sound idea to give the Board authority not only to help the industry but also to go into business on its own behalf. However I wonder why the Minister, at the second reading stage of this Bill, sought to qualify so definitely that the Board would not do anything unless it were encouraged to do so by somebody else. This. is surely tending to be a ministerial hamstring of the Board. Is the Minister saying that the Board should not proceed unless the brokers and other people in the wool trade authorise it, encourage it and ask it to do so? This is a question to which the Minister should apply himself. I do not want to see the Board, any independent authority or any national authority that we establish hamstrung by any such restrictions, and I should hope that it would not be. I shall be interested to hear the Minister on this. ... 
It is being said that we must be terribly careful about the free flow of wool otherwise nobody will buy it and they will turn to synthetics. I wonder how valid is this argument. Many wool producers do not think the situation can get much worse. According to many producers we have already reached rock bottom. It may be held that a small minority may survive the current, blizzard but again. I think we must apply ourselves to - what: is regarded as the rock bottom. If we have another sudden drop like the drop which occurred in 1968-69 - a sudden drop and not a gradual tapering away - what happened then could happen again. In those circumstances in another 18 months prices could drop from 27c to 15c. It is all right for the Government to say: 'We will have a: look at it and have a White Paper'. I commend this and think it a good idea. There is only one thing wrong with it, and I think my colleagues would agree with me, and that is that  i  it should have been done 10 years ago, but I support it now. 
But what about some contingency plans for this sort of thing happening? It happened recently and it can happen again. What contingencies exist? Surely there should be some contingencies. Surely if there is another dramatic drop in wool prices the only thing to do is to suspend sales altogether because there is no point in talking about a free flow of wool at prices which would put every wool grower out of business. He is not in business for the sake of the nation. He is in business to survive with his property and his family. Incidentally he has served the nation in a fine way and made a tremendous contribution, and still does, to our balance of payments situation to which reference was made last night. These are the thoughts that are uppermost in the minds of growers at present. I do not think there would be any section of the industry that would have any quarrel with this legislation and that is why Opposition members and Government supporters' have achieved unanimity in respect of the legislation, but I have the reservations that I mentioned in relation to theMinister's qualifications expressed during, his second reading speech. 
It is as well to pause and contemplate the cry for help contained in the telegram that I read to the House earlier. Has the Minister any contingency plans if it is decided by those- who set the market at present - and set it pretty definitely, too - that there should be another appreciable and disastrous fall in present prices? The Government must take some responsibility. By all means let us have an inquiry and let us have a White Paper. We should have had an inquiry 10 years ago and if the Government accepts this . suggestion and carries it out the Opposition again will be at one with it. The only desire at present is to bring some stability to the industry and some hope for the future. 
I made a submission which had in it some of the elements of what I have submitted to the House this afternoon. It was suggested by one of my suburban colleagues that this was all just rather sordid politics. I suggest to the suburban members of this Parliament who might be a little  out of touch with what happens west of Parramatta, that if they live and work in an area and attempt to represent it but are deaf to the needs of the people and blind in the economic realities in the nation and rural areas generally, then they are not fulfilling their responsibilities. I hope very much that I will continue to fulfil my responsibility to the best of my ability. 
The Opposition stands with the Government on this measure. I hope that this miserable guillotine with which we have been battling so valiantly for the last 24 hours will not preclude the Minister from replying in a very material way to the points I have raised. I say this without heat and with a real and deep sense of concern. 
I support the amendment which I feel is logically related to the problems not only of the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd but also of the canning fruits industry generally. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  suggested that the canning fruits industry in the Murray Valley is the creation of State action and State legislation. This is not really the case, and the national Parliament should not run away from what is clearly a Commonwealth responsibility because the Commonwealth and the States were both involved in the birth of the canning fruits industry which is basically an expert industry. 
This export industry was developed primarily under the umbrella of the Ottowa agreement which was drawn up in 1932, a whole generation ago. The primary purpose of that agreement was to supply the British market, because we were all then part of an imperial system and were a closed shop, so to speak, in trade. 1 do not want to go over the history of imperial trade in the time that is available tonight but I draw attention to the fact that the Commonwealth has a clear responsibility in that it entered into the international agreements which gave birth to this industry. It is true that Victoria and New South Wales played a complementary role in the birth of what is basically an export industry. This point should be made clear because the House of Representatives is now considering a measure which proposed aid to one unit in the industry. That one unit is the largest cannery - I say this with some degree of charity - in Australia. As a matter of fact, it used to be said that if a person lived in Victoria, the largest cannery in the nation was in Shepparton but if he lived in New South Wales it was in Leeton. I do not want to labour this point because I am sure that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and I could produce statistics to prove that we are both right, depending on what we are saying and what figures we produce. However this is not really the point at issue. 
The point is that the canning fruits industry is the basis of 5 Australian towns and communities. It is the basis of the lives, work and prosperity, such as it is, of probably 250,000 people, so we are not dealing in an abstract way with an industry or a problem. This has been recognised by the Opposition in putting forward its amendment. Opposition members agree that there are trouble and problems with the Shepparton cannery. Those who are deeply involved in the canning fruits industry are well aware of what has given rise to the problems. I do not want to go into that detail at all. I fully understand the position and it is to the credit of the State of Victoria and the Commonwealth Government that it has been decided to give a helping hand. But this is not the full story, as my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out. It is not just a case of one unit in this industry; it is a case of all units concerned, including Leeton. I want to draw attention to the problems which Leeton has faced, because these are problems that touch on the Opposition's amendment. The Leeton Co-operative Cannery was born on the basis of the old State cannery which was abandoned by the Government of the day. The government gave birth to it and then said: 'Well, we do not really want it. Who will adopt this infant that we have produced?' What happened was that a group of enterprising fruit growers got together - associated with them was my distinguished predecessor in the State electorate of Murrumbidgee.  Mr George  Enticknap - and said: 'All right; we will take over from the State and will launch a new enterprise'. They also took over a lot of equipment and a lot of debt, which they still have. 
Both. They battled very well. They have done a particularly fine job in making repayments. The State also has done well. The State did not lose anything; it gained. But now, in 1971, a situation has developed which touches on a key community in New South Wales - a fine community of men, women and children who are involved in the cannery. If the canning fruits industry is killed, not only is a cannery killed but also an, entire town. This applies at Shepparton too. It would be dead without its cannery. I am sure that the honourable member for Murray will develop that theme but let me get on with my theme in relation to the Leeton cannery which is covered by the amendment. The Leeton cannery has a hangover of debt dating back a whole generation. The export markets picture has changed dramatically and there is a break up of the old imperial system - The old imperial closed shop. There is, in fact, an erosion of our preferences in the United Kingdom market which this cannery and this industry were created to serve. 
The Opposition is concerned not only with the present transient problems of finance, such as the Government has referred to in this measure, but also with the fundamental stability and future of this industry. Therefore I think that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who I am sure has looked at this in depth, has a responsibility to answer the case presented by the Opposition not only in relation to the viability of this one unit in Shepparton but also to spell out the principle in relation to the other canneries in 3 States - in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. The honourable member for Dawson was being particularly impassioned in a very dedicated way because Queensland is not involved in this at present. But in fact 5 towns in 3 States are involved - a population of a quarter of a million people. 
The principle is the key. If in fact the Government is is now saying: The canned fruits industry is important to the nation, is important to this number of people, and is important to us as a Government', then we of the Opposition are very happy with that. We are particularly pleased that the Government accepts the general commitment. But this legislation does not do that. The Minister, in his second reading speech, has said only that there is a problem in a cannery and we will help to overcome that problem by assisting that cannery. But there is no general commitment in principle. This is proposal is not good enough. Surely to goodness we should have a statement of principle not only in relation to the transient difficulties of financing which the Shepparton cannery may find itself facing, and which, indeed the Leeton cannery finds itself facing at the moment, but also in relation to the future. I should draw attention to the fact that not so very long ago, in the very area that, we are debating tonight, a question was posed to the then Minister for Primary Industry, now the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  about the future of the pear industry if and when Britain entered the European Economic Community. The Minister at the time turned to his chief assistant and said: 'Well, what is the position?' The assistant said: 'Six months after that, of course, pears are finished'. That is what he said, it seems that the Government believes there will be no problem. Next he was asked exactly what would happen with the rest of the canned fruits industry. He indicated that in a very short time after Britain's entry, it would be dead and hopeless. That was his summation at that time. 
What . do we face this morning? The national Parliament is being asked to approve the appropriation of  $4m.  That is not a minor sum. The important thing surely is the principle involved. If we are to do that in relation to this unit, what about the future of the industry, not only in relation to the transient difficulties of financing but also after Britain enters the European Economic Community? The Opposition has been asking questions about this. I feel deeply involved, as I must be on behalf of the people that I represent, and 1 ask: Where is the commitment? What is the commitment on the part of the Government to this important industry in the future? If Britain enter the European Economic Community, all right. She must do so if she sees fit. But what is our position as a nation and what is the Government's position in relation to this industry and the people involved in it? The Government still has not committed itself. It has made no commitment. I think this is an important matter. 
After all, we are members of the national Parliament. Not all of the honourable members here assembled are intimately aware of the intricacies of the financing and operations of the Shepparton cannery. Not many members here are particularly stirred about the problems that are faced by the Leeton Co-operative Cannery. I do not blame them for that but surely, if honourable members as a whole, on both sides of the chamber, are to apply themselves constructively to the problem  they must be told 2 things. Firstly, has the Government a commitment to the canned fruits industry of the nation - yes or no - irrespective of whether Britain enters the European Economic Community, and secondly, is the commitment now being made to the Shepparton cannery a commitment in principle to all of the important and vital units of this industry in the 3 States concerned? These are 2 simple questions. 
As my distinguished friend the honourable member for Banks, points out, it is a national matter. We must be fair to the members of the Parliament who are not directly involved with this matter. I speak with some dedication and emotion on this subject because it touches on the people I am sent here to represent. Surely honourable members who are sitting here trying to weigh up dispassionately the pros and cons of this legislation are entitled to answers particularly to the 2 questions I have posed. This indeed is a matter of high principle touching on a particularly important industry. The Leeton Co-operative Cannery is a captive,  I  might say, of the New South Wales Government at the present time in regard to finance. Just the other day it was obvious that there would become available a very large quantity of citrus fruits that could be processed for juice for which there is a ready market. There was a ready agreement by the. directorate and the management of the cannery to take the additional oranges and to make and sell juice. There was no problem about this idea in the physical sense and there was no problem involved in selling the juice. But there was a financial problem because in fact the State Government, through the Rural Bank which almost manages the financial affairs of that cannery, said: No, we do not feel that you should have the additional money. Of course, it is very easy for an honourable member who represents a dairying elector ate to be disinterested but I ask the Minister for Primary Industry to pay attention. 
Do not treat this with levity. It may be 25 minutes to 1 o'clock in the morning but you should be ashamed of yourself. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the new markets for dried fruits being explored by the Government to which reference was made by him on 30th March 1971. 
What new initiatives have been taken by the Government to replace or revive the now defunct international sultana agreement. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What departments are represented on the inter-departmental committee to investigate the effects of the wine excise to which he referred on 30th March 1971. 
What are the precise terms of reference of this committee and under whose direct authority does it operate. 
Will the industry have adequate opportunities to confer with the committee and to provide specialist evidence. 
When was the committee constituted. 
What was the date of its first meeting, and how many meetings have been held. 
If the committee has not yet met when will it do so. 
When is it expected that its report will be completed. 
Will the report be made available to the industry and tabled in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the tariff on acrylic fibre coming from Hong Kong been removed thus enabling the imported fibre to undersell the local product by $1 per lb. 
Have leading Australian wool manufacturers claimed that this action is helping to depress the price of wool. 
Does acrylic fibre sell in Australia for $1.40 per lb compared with a price of wool to manufacturers of $2.40. 
Are acrylics and wool in direct competition in the Australian market. 
Is be able to say whether one importer has arranged to bring 100,000 lb of synthetics into Australia in April and whether other importers are planning similar actions. 
Does the importation of 100,000 lb of synthetics represent an equivalent of 200,000 lb of greasy wool which will not be wanted. 
In view of the Government's aid to wool growers by subsidy, what is the reason for an action which is enabling foreign synthetics to push wool off the market. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will be give further consideration to the construction of the Canberra-Tumut road in view of (a) the greatly changed situation in the region, including the completion of the Blowering Dam, (b) the fact that the original cost-benefit analysis excluded all monetary benefits flowing from that Dam which was not then in existence and (c) amenities such as the Burrinjuck Dam. 
Was the original proposal for an all weather road referred to the Government as long ago as 1950. 
Did the Government subsequently refer the question to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in May 1959. 
Was the report of the Committee received in the same year. 
Did the Government then agree to a joint examination of the project with the Government of .New South Wales 
Did the examination take almost 6 years to complete, and did the recommendations indicate that the cost of $1,000,000 was too high in relation to the benefits. ' 
Has any further consideration been given by the Government to the project in the 2 years since the negative report was received. 
If not, will he take the action suggested in part (1) of this question. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution in Sydney on 24th March 1969 by representatives of the New South Wales Citrus Growers' Council and the Principal Fruit Officer (Citrus) of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture, particularly the data supporting the contention that dust is of greater economic significance to horticulture production in New South Wales than other forms of air pollution and that losses of $5m a year through dust were being suffered. 
If so, was it submitted- that, if Federal aid for road grants were extended to allow money to be used by local government authorities for the specific purpose of tar sealing of public roads within a distance of 300 feet of orchards, much of the problem to horticulture could be overcome. 
What consideration has been given to these submissions since the presentation of the report of the Select Committee. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
When was the investigation carried out of the Tocumwal-Mangalore rail . link to which  he  referred on 4th May 1971. 
Is it a fact that the volume of traffic on this rail link has altered significantly since the survey was completed. 
Is it also a fact that authorities and industries in the area were not consulted in the course of the survey. 
In view of the inadequacies of the original survey and the changed circumstances will he refer the project to the newly established Bureau of Transport Economics. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the committee established by decision of the Premiers Conference in July 1964 to consider the benefits  of  decentralisation met since February 1969. 
If so, what progress has been made since that date. 
Were a number of reports commissioned by the committee at its meetings on 4th and 5th March 1965, 30th November 1966 and 7th February 1969. 
Have the contents of one of these reports dealing with comparative costs of public services in Melbourne and  a  number of small country towns been released in Victoria. 
Will he arrange  to  table progress reports in the Parliament to enable (a) a review of this Commonwealth activity in decentralisation to be made by the Parliament and (b) Members to assess whether the pace of work and results over the past 7 years are adequate. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: (l)What percentage of the butter production of each Australian State is exported. 
What is the net return per lb in each State from (a) export and (b) home consumption. 
What are the gross earnings of each State from (a) exported and (b) home consumption butter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has advice been given to some farmers and graziers that grants made by the Government under the scheme of emergency assistance to wool growers are taxable. 
Is this advice correct. 
If so, will taxation of the emergency grant defeat the purpose of the grant. 
If the position is as stated, will he take the necessary action to free the grants from tax and then take urgent action to advise all concerned that grants are not to be taxed. 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the prices of chemical spray materials in New Zealand are as much as 50 per cent lower than those in Australia. 
If so, does this give New Zealand orchardists a considerable advantage over Australian orchardists. 
Is he able to say whether the difference in price is due to the Government of New Zealand permitting the entry of spray materials duty free and, in other cases by paying a subsidy to producers to keep costs down so enabling orchardists to compete on exports markets. 
Will be order a review of the competitiveness of Australian orchardists, giving particular attention to the cost of chemical sprays. 
Will the Government consider extending assistance to the Australian orchardists similar to that enjoyed by the New Zealand orchardists. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
' How many overseas companies in Australia are engaged in (a) mining and (b) processing minerals. 
What percentage of Australia's mineral resources are now controlled by overseas companies. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Are there any impediments in the way of Australian servicemen arranging the adoption of Vietnamese children. 
Have any requests for any such adoptions been made. 
Can he say whether United States Army procedures enable United States soldiers to arrange the adoption of Vietnamese children without difficulty. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied, the following answer: 
Servicemen, who wish, to adopt Vietnamese children must comply with the adoption Jaws of the state where the child is to reside, Vietnamese law concerning adoption and make application to. our Immigration authorities for entry of such children. Entry to Australia will normally be granted when the adoption has been in accordance with Slate and Vietnamese laws. Advice was given by my department in May 1970 to the Service Departments setting out the procedures to be followed by servicemen wishing to adopt foreign children. That advice has been promulgated in the Services. 
My department, the Services and the Department of .Immigration have no record of any formal requests concerning such adoptions. 
The position in regard to United States soldiers wishing to adopt Vietnamese children is similar to that of our own servicemen. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether under economic co-operation existing between Indonesia and Japan, a new textile factory has been established at Bandjaran to produce tetoron? 
If so, can he say whether indications have been given that this is the first of a series of extensions in the textile industry of Indonesia by Japan? 
Has he examined the possibility of parallel action by Australia in establishing similar industries based on wool utilisation? 
asked  the  .Minister  for  National Development,  Upon notice: 
ls total flood damage in the Darling Valley from recent inundations estimated to exceed $100m? 
Is it expected that much of the flood waters ' will eventually reach the Murray River? 
Has the flood damage, together with the loss of water running wastefully to the sea, led to renewed demands for flood mitigation and conservation works? 
Will he now consider the investigation of an integrated comprehensive river basin development programme along the lines sought by the Darling Conservation Association? 
Has the River Murray Commission declined responsibility over all conservation including salinity control in line with modern ecological concepts?  (fi)  Did the salinity report issued under this authority envisage total overall valley' action? 
Will he review the decisions of the Commission in relation to its' responsibility to ensure that the recommendations of the salinity report are implemented? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many Australian companies have concluded investment agreements with the Indonesian Government in the past 4 years. 
What is the total capitalisation of the projects. 
What are the projects and where are they situated. 
Can he say how this investment compares with that of other countries now engaged in trade and commerce with Indonesia, including the United States of America. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
When was the Office of the Environment established? 
Who heads this office? 
What is its establishment? 
What are its functions? 
Will the Office concern itself with the current level of pollution in both the Murray and Murrumbidgee rivers which is causing deep concern (Hansard, 16th March 1971, page 954)? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports on an announcement by television stations of their intention to stock-pile first release episodes of Australian productions to provide for an increase in repeat programmes to meet the new Australian quota content. 
If so, does this proposal violate the object of these quotas which was to secure increased local production. 
Will he direct the Broadcasting Control Board to investigate the situation. 
Tonight on the adjournment I want to raise the matter of an insult that was offered by the former Foreign Minister who has just stepped down, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  to a country which is a part of  our  own history and to 34 million Australians who have links with it in blood and sentiment. I want further to accept the invitation of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  during question time yesterday to bring him up to date on the proceedings of the Parliament as they relate to the wine excise, in which he was briefly interested yesterday. 
Last night many honourable members were shocked to hear the insult offered by the honourable member for Wentworth. I have no brief or time for the primitive name-calling of one group by another whether on racial, religious or colour grounds which is still indulged in by the xenophobic few in our country. In the past 20 years racial name-calling in Australia has been reduced and the bigots have been forced beneath the national floor boards. Because of this it was all the more distressing to hear the erstwhile Foreign Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia offering what was obviously a gratuitous insult to an entire people with whom we are linked by blood and sentiment. Speaking in the course of the debate on peace in the Indian sub-continent, the honourable member for Wentworth last night said, inter alia: 
Some very brutal, horrible things have been done. . . . Some of the West Pakistan troops have undoubtedly perpetrated a good many horrors. . . . Such people are worse than the Irish. 
What an insult to offer to any people- -to suggest that the horrible and the brutal is the norm in Ireland and amongst Irish people. What a sad comment at a time when we should be setting an example of tolerance and community peace in the face of tragic events in one or two Irish cities. It is certainly at variance with the views expressed the other day by the Prime Minister of Ireland,  Mr John  Lynch, who said: 
It is not the wish of the Government to be in any way  a  cause of an escalation of an already grave situation or to see any addition to the toll of death, injury and destruction. The Government cannot therefore condone any actions which will lead to an escalation and cannot and will not support any armed activity which will inevitably cause further suffering and death. 
That is the voice of Ireland, and surely the honourable member for Wentworth has no entitlement to bring forth such a scurrilous attack on an entire people. We are left wondering whether the comment represents the view commonly held in Government circles, whether it is perhaps a throw-back to something in the honourable member's own background; but whatever it is I find it shocking and insulting, and I ask the former Foreign Minister to repudiate it without delay and to apologise to the millions of people both here and in the Emerald Isle, and indeed in every corner of the world, whom he labelled so savagely in the House last night as brutal and horrible. 
Turning to the Prime Minister, I suppose it could be said that I was defending the patrimony of the Prime Minister. Having rescued his family and his ancestors from the insults of his colleague, I want to thank him for what I am sure was his kindly if confused reference to the interests of myself and the electorate of Riverina in the wine excise. He might remember that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who voted in favour of the excise and who then said that if it was hurtful to the industry he would vote against it, had asked him what progress the Government's committee was making, lt might be remembered that the Government committee was set up to examine the effects of the wine excise. I am glad that the honourable member for Angas at least did npt have the humbug to oppose it. The question asked by the honourable member for Angas yesterday was silly because only the night before the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had told us that the excise was still on. The honourable member for Angas knew that. He knew that it would stay. He did not protest but that is his affair. 
Let me speak of my concern for the wine' industry. The Prime Minister, if he consults the records, will find that I first raised the matter before - I repeat 'before' his Government imposed this stupid tax. 
Well, I draw attention to the exact position. My forecast before the last Budget was proved regrettably correct. I then raised the matter in the Parliament on 13th October 1970 when I pointed out that the only study had shown the fallacy of the excise. I referred to the tax again and pressed for its removal in the debate on the Appropration Bill (No. 1) 1970-71 on 1st September 1970. Then on 6th April 1971 I placed a question on notice, trying to find out what the Government was doing and asking, in effect, for action, not words of sympathy. The day afterwards, the honourable member for Angas - whom I am delighted to welcome back to the chamber - who had been reminded of his responsibilities by members of the Wine Board then visiting 
Canberra, rose to ask the same question. The  Speaker  very properly sat him down and directed his attention to the fact that I had already put the question on notice the day before. 
I would commend to the Prime Minister an examination of the submissions already made in the Parliament, to the unanimous submissions of the wine industry in ail its parts and to the summing up of the Government's action by the  President  of the Australian Grapegrowers' Council who said that it implied that the Government wanted to ruin the industry. To point out the procrastination in this matter, I might mention that 1 month to the day after I asked the question on notice on 6th April, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  sought to give the impression of quick action by the Committee. He indicated in his reply in all his nice rounded terminology that something was being done and that there would be a speedy resolution of the matter. That was the impression that his reply conveyed and was meant to convey. But that was 6th May; it is now 19th August. Is that quick action? Well, I have done my job. I hope the Prime Minister now does his. 
If the Prime Minister does not want to ruin an entire industry and have more mendicants in the countryside created by government decisions and Government action, he will drop this stupid tax. All he has to do is to check with the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. In fact, the only officer who was called upon and who did carry out a survey and an inquiry and an investigation into the effects pointed out what would happen.  His  paper was available to the Government before it imposed the tax and it is still available to the Government. In his paper he pointed out that the tax would not result in more net revenue but would cause hardship and difficulty and would mean that the Government would be called upon to find cash, handouts and assistance for the farmers and growers whom it had hurt by its own actions. This is what the Prime Minister, following his reply to me yesterday, could well do if he has this great interest. He did say very kindly to me that I should draw his attention to the matter. The records of the Parliament bear witness to the attention drawn to the submissions which have been made already. I point out that the excise was imposed more than 1 year ago. Despite every protest it was indicated that it would be retained. That matter was determined in the Budget that has been brought down this week. What has happened is that the Government has brought into difficulty the one primary industry which had asked nothing of the Government. It sought nothing from the Government and was doing quite well. So the Government took this one industry that had been pointed to as a shining example of self-sufficiency, independence and stability and kicked it in the most hurtful place possible. I leave it to the House to determine where that might be. What happened was that the predictions of the officer of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics,  Dr Tapman,  were proved exactly correct. There has been a reduction in the rate of expansion of wine sales. There has been real hardship and there would have been greater hardship this year. In one area in my own electorate - the little town of Euston in the Riverina - there were people who let grapes rot because of an action of a Government which had not heeded the advice of its advisers. I suggest to the Prime Minister tonight, following his invitation to me yesterday at question time, that he apply himself to the submissions that have been made and read the records of the Parliament. I might say that he can come to but one conclusion and that is that it was a stupidly imposed tax. It was imposed wrongly from everyone's point of view and it should be lifted as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is be able to say whether many naturalised Australians of former German nationality now nearing or having reached retirement age are not receiving superannuation payments due to them from German sources? 
Can he say whether these claims have been recognised but cannot be paid until the Australian Government negotiates on behalf of these new citizens? 
Is he able to confirm that Canada is undertaking negotiations on behalf of Canadian citizens of former German nationality and that final talks with German authorities will be held this month? 
Will he take urgent action to initiate negotiations with the German authorities to obviate a major cause of concern and hardship to those new citizens? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can the Minister take action under the Trade Practices Act to ensure that brewery monopolies will not be permitted to stifle or interfere with the desirable decentralised development plans to establish a co-operative brewery at Narrandera? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health; upon notice: 
When was the Federal Biological Asas Laboratory established? 
How many professional staff are employed in this laboratory? 
How many new drugs and new formulations were imported into Australia in the financial year 1969-70? 
How many of these are under test? 
When will they.be released? 
Have these drugs already been tested overseas? 
Is it a fact that drugs which have been the subject of testing for up to 9 years overseas are tested here for several more years before release? 
Has a working liaison been established by the Australian laboratory with United States. United Kingdom and European drug testing authorities to ensure fully tested drugs are not denied to Australian sick for long periods; if not, will he take steps to ensure that this is done? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which countries export meat products to Australia? 
What quantities were imported during (a) the last financial year and (b) this financial year to date? 
What is the total value of these imports? 
Is the Minister able to say whether exotic diseases of cattle' are in evidence in countries now exporting beef products to Australia? . 
If so, will the Minister review these imports as the last outbreak of foot and mouth disease in the United Kingdom was thought to have originated in beef products particularly from. South America? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the report by  Dr David  Stone, Director of Biological Research at Worcester State Hospital, Massachusetts, that rats given the human equivalent of two bottles of cyclamate sweetened soft drinks for a period of 8 weeks before or during pregnancy had given birth to offspring with brain damage and that similar damage was evident when male rats were fed the chemical before breeding? 
Does this report follow reports linking cyclamates to cancer? 
Will the Minister have the report examined with a view to reviewing the decision not to ban the use of cyclamates in soft drinks in Australia which 'he conveyed to me in 1970? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the percentages of settlers in the forty-nine national categories, listed in the return for the year 1969-70 under the Citizenship Act, who have applied for and been granted Australian citizenship by naturalization and registration during the years of the post-war migration programme. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did. he inform the member for Lyne and also state in answer to my question No. 3173 (Hansard, 27th April 1971, pages 2119-20) that the taxation procedures in relation to broiler growers were being further reviewed? 
If so, will he (a) ensure broiler growers continued recognition as primary producers as in the past pending any necessary amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act, (b) examine the situation which would be created for these primary producers and the extent of additional hardships which will result from the change in the present practice and recognition and (c) further examine urgently the wide and serious complications for primary producers generally of any such changes? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, we have just heard an apology by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  It was an apology couched in terms of personal abuse directed mainly at members of the Opposition and particularly at the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The apology is in the inadequacy of the reply. Now, the Minister probably will say: 'I have cleared the traps; I have answered it all'. In fact, he has misled the Parliament and the nation quite deliberately. I will give one or two examples of the way in which the Minister did this. 
In the first instance, the Minister spoke of the involvement of politics in trade as if it were something that we had suddenly discovered. This is not borne out by official documents from Peking. I have here the Peking Review* of 12th March 1971. In a communique authorised by the Chinese Government, this intertwining of politics and trade is referred to specifically. The Peking Review' states: 
We reiterate and affirm once again that the  3  political principles and the principle that politics and economics are inseparable will be adhered to. 
That is the Chinese assessment of the situation. 
The Minister said to members of the Opposition: 'My advice to you is to be quiet'. This is the Minister who, just a short time after being sworn in as Minister for Trade and Industry, rose to his feet in front of a television audience and said with respect to politics in trade and wheat sales to China: '1 will not barter my soul for wheat'. 
The honourable member for Mallee asks: 'Why should he?' I respect his conscience. I am worried about the soul of the Minister. I am most concerned about it. I am so concerned on his behalf that I think the Minister would he doing well by the nation and by his soul if he took himself and his immortal soul home where it belongs, found himself another portfolio and let the nation get on with the business of trading. This is exactly the situation that must be faced. When we are talking about politics and trade it is a sad thing that the Minister, probably quite deliberately, did not complete his quotation from 'Nation'. Not only was he telling the Chinese that they were unfit to be dealt with because of the peril to his soul but also a former Foreign Minister,  Sir Gordon  Freeth, spoke of 'serious questionings of conscience in Australia about how far we are justified in trading with China'. 
The Minister is the  Deputy  Prime Minister in this Government. He must take responsibility. He should not try to get away here with what he does outside. Outside he says: 'Everything is terrible; I am with you' but then he comes in here and does exactly what he is doing. He is two-voiced and two-faced, and this is not good enough. He will not get away with it in this debate. A colleague of his, the former Foreign Minister, spoke of conscience and trade. 'We should not involve ourselves in trade with China', says he. But the former honourable member for Chisholm,  Sir Wilfred  Kent Hughes, a long-time member of this House and Minister and part of the establishment supporting of this Government of 22 years, often criticised the Country Party and said of its members that their hands held money that was stained with the blood of Tibetan peasants. He said this because we were actually selling wheat to China. 
This is a pattern of insult. So the Minister for Trade and Industry says: 'We must not deal with politics in trade', but the Government has been dealing with politics in trade in relation to China for a long time. Only the other day in this House the  Deputy  Prime Minister, when referring to trade, criticised the Government of Britain, He said in effect 'You know, the British let us down. We left everything to London and London did not look after us.' The  Deputy  Prime Minister was the little colonial boy lost running around the great corridors of power in London, hoping desperately that someone would rescue him and his Government from a situation they got themselves into because they had not done their homework in relation to the European Economic Community and Britain's entry into it. That homework should have been done 10 years ago. 
The other major point on which the Minister misled the Parliament was in respect of the great fiction about who was responsible for trade. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has been trying to convince everybody in the nation that the farmer is responsible for world selling. In fact, the Government has largely convinced the Australian farmer that the farmer is responsible for world sales, for shipping arrangements, for credit and all the facilities which are provided by the Government. Let us be clear about this. Who makes the basic decisions on trade? The Government does. It is necessary to have an umbrella of trade treaties and the  Deputy  Prime Minister should know this, even though he has not been long in his portfolio. But the trade treaties set the basic decisions. Following that it is Government which determines credit, terms of repayment and interest. It sets the whole basic fabric for trading, not the Australian Wheat Board. It is a fiction, improper and wrong to say that the Australian Wheat Board can do all these things and make all these decisions, lt does not. The Government does it in the same way as the Government dictates to the Australian Wool Commission. 
Let us consider a few facts about trading in relation to our situation. We are 10 years behind Japan in trade with China, 3 years behind Canada, 2 years behind Italy and I year behind the United States of America. While the Minister for Trade and Industry is in this House abusing the Opposition and trying to cover up for his errors President Nixon is going to China, not out of sweetness, love and charity but because the United States corporations have prospects of Si, 000m worth of sales to China and they need the sales and want the trade. Of course, the Deputy Prime Minister ignores this, but this is the situation. Australia is 1 year behind the United Slates of America in trade with China. This is the situation we face. Let us consider the Japanese position. We are talking about recognition of China. The Minister tried carefully to give the impression that there were no links whatever between China and Japan. This is untrue. Since 1968 there has been a Japan-China memorandum trade agreement. There have been trade offices in Tokyo and in Peking. 
I think that the Minister should do his homework. The Japanese have been doing extraordinarily good trade with China amounting to S800m a year. 
The new Assistant Minister has just made his first contribution in that role and he advises me to get back to Australia. The facts of Chinese trade are available for him to study and digest. Members opposite talk about politics in trade. I have given examples and instances which have led China to say: These people are insulting us. These people are not dealing with us properly. We will give preference elsewhere'. I draw attention to the 'Australian Financial Review' of Monday, 5th July, wherein it is stated: 
The Government of the People's Republic seems to have gone out of its way to co-operate with the Canadians in reaching the agreement. Few of China's trade agreements seem to be so open ended and timewise as this one on wheat purchases from Canada. Australia is the major sufferer. 
In the speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry there was no initiative at all - nothing but abuse. Australia should have a trade office in China now. The Minister knows it. A trade office should have been established in China years ago. How dare he come into the Parliament and abuse the honourable member for Dawson who at least went to Peking with his colleagues of the Australian Labor Party and opened the door. At least the Minister could say: 'You opened the door; let me go up there and see what I can do*. He should have done this instead of hanging around in the cold streets of London left like the proverbial shag on the rock. 
The makeup of China's foreign trade, particularly its imports, has changed substantially over the last 15 years. China's major goods are being imported from the United Kingdom, France, West Germany and Italy. All of these countries are ahead of us in their trade links with China. In fact, as a result of the lack of initiative by this Government we have missed, for the moment at any rate, the boat to China. This is the whole crux of the question. The whole of this episode is set down in the records for all to see. One can see the responsibility of the Minister for Trade and Industry who confuses his conscience with the conscience of the Australian people. He has done a grave disservice to Australia from the day he took office as Minister for Trade and Industry. He is a failure. He should know it, and he should resign. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his condemnation of the Budget. The 
Leader of the Opposition said tonight that the policies of the Government have split Australia into 3 parts. This Budget will further split the nation and worsen the artificial crisis which has been foisted on the countryside. The Government keeps referring to excessive demand. The former Treasurer has even talked of a shortage of land and there is increasing reference to the problems of over-population. Yet the Australian countryside today is dotted with towns that are losing population. They are full of empty houses and empty shops. One town has abandoned its annual show and in the football State of Victoria one proud little community for the first time in this century could not find enough young men to field a football team. Unemployment is rising. There is a stream of rural refugees to the city and those who remain in some of the rural areas struggle on unemployment benefits which are 20 per cent of the average weekly income. While many roads remain dust tracks dotted with pot holes in many places in rural Australia able bodied willing young men are condemned either to subsist on 20 per cent of their usual pay, stand in the sun on the street corner and do nothing or head for the city. 
One builder in a small western town who used to have 50 men working for him had one left when I last called, and he was weeding the garden. The root of the crisis lies in the agricultural sector. Wilcannia wool grower,  Mr Bob  Hudson, who came to Canberra the other day for the Ivanhoe Survival Committee, is an example of what has happened. On 140,000 acres carrying 20,000 sheep there is now no-one employed. All maintenance work has stopped and no improvements are contemplated or possible. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  paid some passing attention to this situation in his Budget Speech. But I was shocked that he should find the impact of the lost rural earnings restricted to rural communities. I am deeply concerned that he has not acknowledged that the country's troubles today are- the nation's troubles of tomorrow. It is my intention to demonstrate this inter-dependence and to pose basic policies to end what is demonstrably a false crisis, a needless depression in the Australian countryside at this time. 
But first let us examine the papers on national income which the Treasurer used as the basis for his budgeting and then establish what the Government intends to do about the crisis in half the nation. The basic fact which emerges from them is that profits of trading companies have declined but that those of finance companies have increased. The only major leap forward in the nation's profitability has been registered by those who manipulate and handle finance. In terms of overall economic growth, contrary to the glowing references by the Government to the nation's performance, we have in fact once again registered the lowest growth but one among the major nations of the West. But we should not be surprised at this. In the last decade Australia has been almost permanently in second last position rating behind Japan with 10.1 per cent, Italy with 5.3 per cent, West Germany with 4.7 per cent, France with 3.9 per cent, the United States, with all its troubles, wih 3.2 per cent, while Australia's average over the 10 years was 2.8 per cent. Australia, which prides itself on its image of virile expansion, has an economy so arthritic that we usually rate behind the tiny Republic of Ireland in terms of economic growth. The fact is that Australia's economic problems stem from the misapplication of resources. For the second year in succession investment in new high rise offices to house more clerks and bits of paper has exceeded $3 00m. 
We now have a situation where in the past 5 years the percentage of the work force handling money and property has risen by 31.25 per cent - 50 per cent more than those engaged in production. Perhaps the most disastrous decision made by this Government - I do not blame the Treasurer for not mentioning it - was to raise the interest rate. This gave the greatest single boost to inflation and to the distortions in the Australian economy which put a premium on speculation and the heaviest cost burdens certainly on .real production in either the primary or secondary spheres. Against this background the Treasurer brings down a budget which he claims is meant to contain inflation though he said we have had it for some time and he saw nothing wrong with that. Yet inflation in the past 7 years has added 20 per cent to the costs of the primary producer. Inflation has added more to his costs than have wage increases. But what has the Treasurer done about inflation? In the name of fighting inflation and bringing down costs he has brought down a Budget which increases costs and charges which bear particularly severely on the rural half of the nation. It will cost more to write letters, more to telephone and more to travel; every means of communication so vital in the countryside has been subjected to an increase in cost. 
The Budget papers envisage cost rises of no less than 9 per cent in the ensuing year. This is inflation with a vengeance. The Treasurer's answer is to increase a whole range of costs, to administer the medicine as before in relation to nearly every activity of State arid keep a domestic surplus df $630m, presumably in case of an election. So the strategy is to dampen down Australia's economic growth - already one of the lowest among the advanced nations of the Western world - ignore the needs for upgrading education, health and welfare services and to take no effective remedial action to end the rural slump. But the Government claims, and I quote from the Treasurer's Budget Speech, that it has:   . . given high priority to measures aimed at giving support to farmers whose enterprises are basically viable but who are burdened with an excessive amount of short term debt or whose properties could be with advantage built up to a larger size. 
What do the Government's brave words amount to? It has rested its claims to be helping the countryside on 2 main handouts, as the suburban lobby likes to call them. 
The first is the Government's much vaunted rural reconstruction scheme. What does it really amount to? Let us take New South Wales as an example. It actually imposes the toughest conditions for rural reconstruction that New South Wales has had for 2 generations. The Commonwealth dictated higher interest rates and shorter term lending. The actual amount of money in a full year available in New South Wales for debt adjustment and carry on purposes is $4m. The Commonwealth itself spends $328m on stationery, travel and fixing up the offices. But this is for the whole State in a full year and we find 1,000 primary producers are now in the queue with the Rural Reconstruction Board dealing with about SO a month and lucky if it can help 80 families a year with debt adjustment and build-up. Woe betide the man who finds himself in a situation caused by the Government's interest rate hike. This has influenced many lenders not to renew mortgages on rural land but to call up the money and put it into purely speculative development in city areas. In other words, money has been taken out of production and put into pure speculation. If the first mortgage in such cases is too high - not in relation to productivity or value of assets but just too high for the inadequate funds available - the applicant is refused - not because he is a bad risk, not because he is uneconomic but because the board just does not have the money. 
Rural reconstruction is a lottery which, under the present conditions, only a few can win. It has been estimated that in Victoria only 10 per cent of those applying can be helped because of the Commonwealth's ruthless provisions. Let us turn to the build-up provisions. The Commonwealth demands a profit for itself of more than 6 per cent. The Commonwealth is hell bent on making a profit out of rural hardship in this scheme because it has required and forced the States to charge double the old interest rates. But what it means is that the primary producer, under the Commonwealth Government's build-up scheme, would have to show a return on capital of between 9 and 10 per cent to survive. This is just not possible. So the answer is that the carry-on stage of the scheme is a lottery with a doubtful prize at the end and the build-up segment is a farce. If honourable members think I use strong words I can quote the Victorian Minister for Lands who calls the scheme a disaster and the Liberal Party member for Albury who said it was a fizzer or a damp squib. So the Commonwealth stands today with a scheme that is not a rural reconstruction scheme at all but a smokescreen for the destruction of the rural sector. It will force 100,000 people into the cities; it will swell the stream of refugees from the rural half of the nation. 
But the Treasurer also referred to the other great rural decision of his Budget, the wool subsidy scheme. Once again the 
Government has double crossed the wool industry. Ministers toured the countryside to address carefully arranged meetings attended by more than 6,000 people who demanded an acquisition scheme. They double crossed them by seeming to accept it and then giving them a wool commission tied hand and foot by Government dictation as to its selling and freedom of operation. The second double cross came when the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and his associates pretended to fight for a reserve price of 40c a lb for wool. They did not fight for it and they did not get it. They have produced instead a scheme which will help the rich get richer and the struggling family wool grower will receive practically no benefit at all. In fact, the Minister for Primary Industry has indicated that 10 per cent of the wool which only needs some simple scouring in decentralised plants in the countryside will be banned from the scheme altogether. This means that in low rainfall western areas the Minister is giving the family wool grower the kiss of death. 
In fact, at this particular stage we should examine the rural debt. The breakdown of the $2,095m rural debt, for the latest period available to me, is:  Major trading  banks, $998m or 47.6 per cent of all debts; pastoral finance companies, $349m or 16.7 per cent of all debts; Commonwealth Development Bank, $176m or 8.4 per cent; assurance societies, $128m or 6.1 per cent; ex-service settlement schemes, $80m or 3.8 per cent; and State banks and other government agencies, $364m or 17.4 per cent. Let me sum up the rural debt. More than 90 per cent of the rural debt is held by public and private banks and by pastoral finance companies. So the wool subsidy will be much less than 36c per lb when one takes out the increased brokers fees, the increased fees charged by the Australian Wool Commission and the 10 per cent of the wool which has been banned from the scheme. 
The subsidy will not only be less than 36c per lb; it will go directly to those who hold the debts. More than 50 per cent of all the $60m involved will go to only 10 per cent of growers. The family wool grower may receive a few hundred dollars while the pastoral finance companies to whom he is in debt will receive, in some cases, $100,000 direct from the Government for sheep they own, and they may decide that the family grower on their books will receive none of the money due to him personally; they may decide to retain it and apply it with the rest of their profits to buying up ice cream firms in the city. There is no guarantee that the family producer will receive very much at all from the subsidy payment. 
But the venerable British Tobacco Co., which was first incorporated in England in 1904, will do very well. Here is a company with its birth in English tobacco, its interests in Hong Kong printing, and its use of profits to acquire Australian companies manufacturing and distributing frozen foods, soft drinks, beer and cordials. It does not sound much like the traditional wool grower whom we are supposed to be helping. But let me complete the picture. The British Tobacco Co. made a net profit of $ 12.2m and paid a dividend of 14 per cent last year, and with between 20 and 25 huge properties spanning between 2 million and 3 million acres, it could be eligible for thousands of dollars from the scheme which was conceived, so we were told, to help the poor, struggling grower. 
The story is the same with other similar companies. The industry itself has told the Government that the 36c per lb wool subsidy will result in 100,000 people being forced like refugees to the city. The Government has promised  a  loan of up to $1,000 to rehabilitate displaced families. These people have spent a lifetime of work in the countryside, and the Government will give them a loan of $1,000 at interest rates to be fixed. It is contemptible and insulting to the people. But this is what the Government has said; this is its policy. We have the position where the Government has determined on a course which will force 100,000 people from the countryside across the nation. The Government has made its decision; the Budget confirms it. The Government says: 'Give them sympathy and a whisky and send them home while we press on with rural destruction.' It is being successful in this. Wool production fell by 10 per cent last year, and 5 years more of the present Government and its present policies and it will have succeeded in cutting back wool production by 50 per cent. 
The Government's actions indicate its. conviction that the rural sector is expendable and its belief that we can rely on minerals to fill the gap left by its demise. But the facts give the lie to this assumption. According to the Government's own figures, minerals will not equal agriculture until 1985. A downturn in agriculture therefore means a downturn in total trading, and Australia could be short of foreign currency. Our present substantial overseas balances could disappear as a consequence of the present world currency crisis which makes the Budget already out of date. It is obvious already that our dollar is being temporarily revalued in effect by up to 3 per cent. An upward revaluation will make it tougher to sell, and it exposes the already beleaguered manufacturing sector to great difficulties in this regard. It will also impose tough conditions on the sale of primary products. So there is a real danger we could be short of foreign earnings and might have to cut imports of metals, tools, petroleum, wood paper pulp and many of the imported parts necessary to keep secondary industry going. 
Make no mistake: We are facing a serious attack on our standard of living as a nation, and the one saving factor could well be the primary sector. Last year agricultural exports increased and represented 51 per cent of earnings; mining of minerals represented 23 per cent and the rest represented 24 per cent. The figures show our continuing dependence as a nation on the primary sector - whether you like it or not. We produce 90 per cent of our own food. In fact, what happens is that the price of food on the domestic market is at least 5 times that of the farm gate . price. A farm recession of output of Si 00m will mean a loss to the farmers of $100m and a further loss of $100m to the railways and transport and handling facilities. So this is a loss of S200m in export income. It must be remembered that gain due to farming is a real gain, since most Australian farming is still in the hands of Australians. But this is not so for mining and the overseas export earnings of S925m from mining have to help cope with nearly $800m due to be repaid annually to overseas interests. 
I repeat that a rural slump means a city depression in the long run. But here we are talking depression in a rich country. Just what does our mineral boom mean to Australia? The ex-mine value of minerals in 1969 amounted to more than SI. 141m. It cost probably at least SI 00m of Australia's available money for investment to help the foreign firms which dominate mining in the main in Australia to get this amount of minerals out of the ground and out of the country. Yet the only direct return to the nation is in royalties, which in that same year amounted to only $24m. I hope that honourable members have understood the contrast between the figures of $l,141m in the value of minerals and $24m in royalties. Let me make the exploitation of our natural resources more plain. Western Australia - and this is the State of the great mineral boom - received in royalties in a single year $19m. This is less than  Mr Robin  Askin received from poker machine tax in New South Wale.i  -  he received $30.4m. Yet there is no hint in the Budget of this reckless alienation of natural resources of tremendous value in return for a veritable mess of pottage. A cost benefit analysis of the so-called mineral boom in Australia is long overdue, as is a full investigation of the costs and the benefits to this nation, not to a handful of foreign firms which, according to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  dominate 71 per cent of the outflow of minerals. 
Decentralisation is ignored in the Budget. The only Commonwealth action here remains a committee set up in 1964 which has met 3 times - dramatic action indeed. In contrast, the Australian Labor Party, at its Launceston Conference, has spelt out a multi-pronged policy which provides a strengthening of the rural sector with 3 per cent finance available over 5 years and as much as is required to turn the tide of the rural slump. Stay orders will operate for the whole of the time in cases where they are needed. That policy was adopted unanimously. Under the new Launceston policy, for the first time the Commonwealth is committed directly to decentralisation efforts by the States on a $1 for $1 basis. 
These are real policies, and the finance in one of the richest nations in the world will come from the increased productivity which those policies will stimulate, from the application of our resources away from speculation, and from an overhaul of probably the most primitive and outdated handling and marketing systems, particularly for primary products, in the world. A new deal is what is needed. A new Budget is vital, and that can be the product only of a new government of radical reform. May it come soon before economic darkness falls and the lucky country runs out of luck. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: Whereas - 
The Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system. 
A major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from Income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how the charges associated with the Australian Patent Office compare with charges in the United States of America, Canada and South Africa? 
Is be able to say whether the Institute of Patent Attorneys has suggested that under current Government proposals Australian applicants will be taxed by the Patent Office at twice the rate of applicants in the United States of America and at four times the rate of applicants in Canada, South Africa and New Zealand. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he or his Department veto or recommend against the posting of a Latvian-born Australian, the former Royal Australian Naval Officer Lieutenant Commander Peter Berzins, to Vietnam on the grounds that an Australian born officer should be appointed to avoid any possible complications? 
If so, what is the justification for this decision when, according to information conveyed to me on 30th November 1970, 8 officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs who represent Australia overseas and who were not born in Australia, were not citizens of this country and had not applied to become citizens? 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are the negotiations which commenced in 1962 for the entry of Australian citrus fruit to Japan any further advanced. 
Will he undertake to point out that the only Japanese objection, which relates to possible fruit fly infestation, can be met by the commodity treatments already developed in those eastern States interested in exporting and accepted as adequate to control the fruit fly which occasionally appears in the export areas of those States. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Has there been an upward revaluation of the Australian dollar since the current international currency crisis began? If so, what is the extent of the revaluation and its effects on our principal trading partners? Will the Treasurer give an assurance that primary and secondary industries struggling to achieve overseas sales will not be permanently burdened with a revaluation in either direction which will disadvantage our export industries? Finally, will the Treasurer make arrangements to prepare a White Paper which will set out for all Australians the pros and cons of a revaluation in either direction? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Have Shire Councils along the banks of the Murrumbidgee River asked him to take steps to end the flow of polluted waste into the river from Canberra. 
Has one shire- served legal notice on him to have this pollution stopped. 
Will he, as a matter of urgency, call together the Departmental Committee charged with the investigation of pollution in the Murrumbidgee River with a view to meeting the objections of local authorities. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice; 
What was the (a) peak percentage of effluent In waters associated with the Australian Capital Territory and (b) degree of impurity in the effluent discharge into the Murrumbidgee. River from the Australian Capital Territory in each of (he last 10 years (Hansard, 5th May 1971, pages 1632-3, question No. 3177). 
I do want to support the remarks briefly made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  particularly because it seems to me that what we are doing by placing this matter before the House in this way is asking the House of Representatives to put itself in a position where it says it will not raise any further matters during the course of the debate on the Appropriation Bill. I know that an agreement has been reached, but I do want to draw attention to the real effect of this. 
Let me just finish my submission. I want to make the point that the motion says: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent Government Business taking precedence of General Business om each sitting day until the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 has passed all stages in the House. 
I would like to draw attention to the notice paper in relation to general business. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has had on the notice paper for one year and four months a motion which has not yet come forward. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has a motion in relation to the siting of the new Parliament House and again it has been there for one year and four months. 
I draw attention to the fact that the first matter listed under orders of the day shows the resumption of the debate from 23rd April 1970. I remember that day particularly well one year and four months later. It was a day on which the House was anxious to adjourn because honourable members had either to greet or to say farewell to someone - I am not quite sure what we were supposed to be doing. I had no objection to that because it was put to me that almost all the 125 members wanted to go to say farewell or offer their greeting. That was very nice, but 1 did point out that this was a most important matter and that I hoped that if it was adjourned - I secured the adjournment of the debate - an arrangement would be made for it to come back on again. I draw attention again to the great spread of matters listed under general business. The Bandung Declaration, now so old that I am sure some honourable members have forgotten what it was, is listed. Then we have the matter of the new Parliament House. Then we have a motion for assistance for the wool industry, we have the matter of land tenure raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and then we have a motion by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  relating to the National Service Act. 
There is also the naval base at Cockburn Sound and then a number of Bills which have been introduced by honourable members from this side of the House. They include a Bill to set up a national water conservation and constructing authority, the Commonwealth Electoral Bill and all sorts of terribly important matters which have been there, though not all of them, over a period now of one year and four months. It is the practice in other Parliaments not to interfere with general business. I know the theory is that the Budget debate gives every honourable member an opportunity to deal with whatever he wants. It does not work out quite like that but I know what the intention is. I have no quarrel with the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  in his intention in relation to this matter but there are many urgent matters which could and should be raised as a matter of duty by members on both sides of the House of Representatives who may already have spoken in the Budget debate. It is very important for us to recognise that if we agree regularly to put ourselves in the position of denying ourselves the right to raise urgent matters as they occur then we are not doing the right thing by the institution of Parliament or by ourselves. I do not intend, and I do not think our distinguished  Deputy  Leader intended, because of the tradition that has grown up to divide the House on this issue. 
Because he has entered into a gentleman's agreement with the 
Leader of the House. I am sure that whatever agreement our distinguished  Deputy  Leader enters into will be honoured by him and his colleagues. I do not intend to interfere with that agreement but I do intend to draw attention to the fact that it is not a practice I would like to see continued.. I do feel that we should make a firm resolution to clear up the general business items on the notice paper. It does little honour to the Parliament, little honour to the institution and little honour to ourselves as individuals to have matters left there for one year and 4 months. If they are of no consequence and should be thrown out let us raise them, debate them and dispose of them; but let us not just leave them there. 
Finally 1 draw attention to the fact that this decision will have the effect of preventing the motion to be moved by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  under the heading 'Notice given for general business Thursday No. 9' from being moved. I know that the honourable member for Angas is most anxious to have this matter brought before the House and voted upon but the effect of the motion that is now being debated is that he will be effectively silenced. This is surely a matter for regret by us all, because T am sure that where we have a major industry in trouble and one of its representatives - I happen to be one myself - feels an urgent need to rise in his place and draw attention to the industry he should be able to do so. Surely we should not put him in the position where he is voting- if we did have a vote on it; 1 think it is a measure of the sweet charity on the part of the Opposition that we are nol voting upon it - to gag himself because of tradition. I do not really want to put the  Deputy  Government Whip in that position but I do draw attention to the fact- 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the well known attitude of the Government towards overseas investment to which he referred in answer to my Question No. 2768 (Hansard, 5th May 1971, page 2633). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How often has the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation met since it was established by decision of the Premier's Conference in July, 1964. 
How many reports (a) have been initiated, (b) are still incomplete and (c) have been completed. 
Will the completed reports be made available to the Parliament; if so. when. 
I also desire to direct a question to the Treasurer. Has he examined the statement by Professor Colin Clark in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 5th May in which he indicates that interest and dividends paid to foreign investors are now rising at the rate of $100m a year? Has he further examined the statement by Professor Clark that we are short by $900m a year on our overseas balance of payments? Does Professor Clark's submission validate the situation I described in my recent question to the Treasurer on foreign investment, and does it also validate the concern expressed by the right honourable member for Higgins in his articles in the 'Sunday Australian' in relation to foreign investment? Finally, in view of the lifting of foreign exchange curbs, to which the Treasurer has just referred, and in view of widespread fears of an inflow of inflated foreign currency for speculative purposes, will the Treasurer immediately order a review of the whole range of present policies which seem to many of us to be taking us hell bent to the international pawn shop? 
I enter the adjournment debate for a specific purpose but I must say, following the remarks made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  that my colleague the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  at present is in Adelaide on unavoidable urgent personal business. I know that he would like to have been here to deal with the Minister's reply. I want to say this on behalf of my absent colleague for no-one would be second to him in his dedication to the country or in his desire to serve it. In fact, the honourable member served this country in a fine and distinguished capacity in the greatest moment of challenge that it has ever had. I think he shares with many members of the Parliament resentment that he read in a book that none of us has read and published in the United States of America by a man of whom we have never heard, about an installation in Australia about which we know very little. I think this was. the criticism that the honourable member made, and I make it myself, because I do not have the information and neither have my colleagues. I make that point as a prelude to a statement which I think will bring the Minister for Defence slightly closer to me. In fact, we have neighbouring electorates. 1 am delighted that the Minister for Defence is here because I did refer this matter today to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  I am delighted also to see that he has now joined us in the chamber. 
A fresh disaster faces the hard pressed rural sector in New South Wales and Victoria. A massive plague of locusts threatens to crops and farms damage totalling many millions of dollars. If the plague is allowed to strike with full force it will mean literally the financial end of many people in the front line of their attack. It is for this reason that I appeal for the urgent intervention of the Army which has the manpower and the means to move into the threatened area. I have already asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  by question on notice to apply himself and his officers to giving aid to the efforts of New South Wales and Victorian authorities. The urgency is such and the information now so precise and definite that there has been a call for at least Army help and, if necessary, some of the resources of the Royal Australian Air Force. Officers of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture and of the Pasture Protection Boards in the areas of Balranald, Hay, Deniliquin, Jerilderie and Narrandera have confirmed and pinpointed the extent of the menace. 
Hatchings have already begun in the egg beds spread through the 20,000 square miles of the south west region, touching on my electorate and the electorate of Darling. State specialist in locust control,  Mr Max  Casimir, has told emergency meetings of officers and landholders that nothing can now stop the eggs hatching this spring - there is enough moisture in the ground now. Compounding the problem is the fact that in the region concerned we are experiencing uniquely a drought, semi drought and a good season. This means that we could be faced with progressive hatchings of the winged hordes. They are already emerging. The South West Plague Locust Committee headed by  Mr George  Hanna of Hay is already moving to coordinate the counter-attack. Shires have put their bush fire brigades on the alert and authorised use of equipment but councils without money just have not the cash to do all that needs to be done and bush fire brigades depend on volunteers. A headquarters, office to co-ordinate the counterattack will be established at Griffith; several thousand gallons of lindane spray are being provided by the State Department of Agriculture; and I understand Victorian authorities are contemplating the formation of an air force to pursue the counter-attack over the Murray into New South Wales. 
I mention these things to show that there is no lack of effort by all concerned but the very magnitude of the problem has to be understood. In a square foot there are 180 egg pods, each capable of hatching hundreds of locusts. Once the locusts take to the wing there can be up to 100 million locusts in a fair size swarm covering a square mile. But at the critical stage for attack - the crawling stage - there can be up to 3 million locusts to an acre. So ground control is more effective and cheaper, and we want to hit them now. Some locusts are emerging now. In the next 2 or 3 weeks they will all be out - the first 7 or 8 days is critical - and then they get into marching bands. They will not reach the winged stage until midNovember. If we let them fly and lay eggs the plague will be strengthened by further hatchings in January and autumn. 
The weakness in the situation is the fact that the Act under which all must work places the full responsibility on landholders. This is where the Army is needed. Nearly all the properties are without labour; some of up to. 60,000 acres have no-one outside the family left working on them, while others of more than 100,000 acres in extent have perhaps one man only. The days when the areas themselves could produce their own army and their own supplies from their own numbers and resources have gone with the rural depression. The Army can move in with the necessary manpower; the Department has the spray and equipment; the Pasture Protection Boards have the supply lines; and a command has been set up to co-ordinate the attack. Yesterday the Chamber of Commerce met at Griffith and adopted the following resolution: 
That this Chamber view with grave concern the imminent threat of a massive plague locust outbreak on the MIA and the districts north and west of Griffith and the potentially serious effect on the economy of this region: 
It then submitted that in view of the probable shortage of manpower to combat the expected outbreak while the hoppers are in the crawling stage, it supported any move to secure the help of the Army and Royal Australian Air Force units and aircraft. To help again it has called on the Wade Shire, which is the most closely populated shire in the State, to appeal to the people to volunteer assistance where possible and to the farming community to volunteer assistance with suitable equipment and manpower. I mention these matters to show again that there has been complete mobilisation of sentiment, of opinion and of the units within the region. So there are volunteers from the irrigation areas, and there are beds of locusts surrounding the irrigation areas at Merriwagga, Yenda and Warburn. The challenge is clear. The danger is imminent. The need for Army and perhaps RAAF help is vital at this time and I hope that it will be given. This is one occasion on which honourable members from both sides of the chamber would be happy, I am sure, to vote unanimously for a military operation, and I would hope that perhaps this might be possible in view of the threat to the entire economy in vital regions of both States. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Has the level of water in the Hume Weir risen to a particularly high level despite a very dry winter. 
Has the Albury-Wodonga Flood Committee estimated that Lake Hume will only have 2 feet of pondage from now on. 
If so, has considerable concern been expressed at this situation. 
Has the Committee also stated that the low level of the Murray River at Albury, 3 feet 10 inches, led to stock being bogged while attempting to cross the river. 
Have there also been reports of stock straying from one State to another. 
Will he investigate the position to ensure that there is no danger of flooding due to seasonal change and also to ensure an adequate flow into the Murray River as desired by the Committee. 
-I rise to second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  While I welcome the principle of a rural retraining scheme we must reject the context in which it was put forward by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and also because it is inadequate as far as we on this side are concerned because it does not take into account all the people in the rural areas whose occupations are directly dependent on the viability of farming, such as those people engaged in local businesses or country town works who will also be unemployed. This statement made today by the Minister was without prior warning although 1 did have a little message in regard to it - I thank the Minister for that - shortly before it was presented to the House. As the honourable member for Dawson pointed out we have not had sufficient time to examine what is a most important measure. I repeat that the context of this statement has to be rejected because the context of it is completely inadequate. One of the things that must be said is that this statement and scheme comes forward at a time of national scandal of unemployment. Even in the most prosperous rural centres at the present time there are reports of a 50 per cent rise in unemployment. We have the situation in country towns, including some towns which 1 represent, where young men are ready, willing and able to undertake employment but they are denied the opportunity. We have the situation of family men having to evacuate like refugees moving to the city because of the rural situation created by decisions of this Government. 
I think I must address my remarks to the context of this proposed scheme. The Minister said that the scheme was in the context of the Government's assessment of the rural crisis and the rural reconstruction scheme. The rural crisis is an incredible example of Government mismanagement at a time when there is a boom in Asian countries for primary products. But not only is this boom passing us by, it seems to have the opposite effect as far as our rural sector is concerned. What the Government is in effect saying is that there is very little hope for the rural sector based on primary production. Therefore we have a rural reconstruction scheme which, if it is allowed to take place in its present inadequate terms and on this pernicious basis, will banish one million people to the cities in this decade. Let us have a look at the scheme. It has been suggested that it will be an effective means of assisting in the present rural crisis. We have in New South Wales, for example, . more than 1,000 applicants for rural assistance. We have a serious situation in most of the hard hit areas in the West, yet only two applications from that region have been approved this year. This is no reflection on the State Rural Reconstruction Boards which are faced with a queue of people and which in New South Wales have only $4m for the entire year wi:h which to satisfy the needs of these people for debt adjustment finance to carry on. How can any supporter of the Government or any member of this Parliament accept that situation in the present context I do not know because it is ludicrous. 
We also have the situation where there has been very little movement or application for a build up of farms, and the reason is fairly obvious when one looks at the fact that the Government is determined to make a profit out of rural misery by imposing a high rate of interest which means, in effect, that a- return of between 9 per cent and 10 per cent has to be obtained before a successful build up scheme can be carried on under the present financial basis. This is again absurd. What does it really mean? It means that the scheme is not reconstruction; it is, in fact, the destruction of the rural sector and has been described as such by Liberal Party Ministers in Victoria and by Liberal Party members in New South Wales. I commend them for their forthright condemnation of a scheme, which is, at best, a farce and, at worst, a considered attempt by the Government to close down the rural sector. This is the context of the scheme which was proposed today and which must be rejected. 
The honourable member for Dawson said that there should not be a series of isolated ad hoc decisions which do not complement each other at all. The situation will rise under the rural reconstruction scheme where a primary producer who has been engaged in his occupation all his life arid who has done a particularly good job, because of a series of Government decisions will find himself non-viable. Through the great generosity of this Government, under the rural reconstruction scheme, which is supposed to be complementary to this rural retraining scheme, he is said to be able to apply for a resettlement loan of $1,000. Was ever a more insulting provision presented to a great body of people in our nation? As has been pointed out, this loan is less than the assistance which is available in the industrial sphere, but it must be looked at in the context of this particular scheme. 
As I have said, the principle of rural retraining is something that the Opposition accepts because in every decade there will be probably 10 per cent of the farming members of the nation who will need some retraining. That 10 per cent could be 15 per cent at this time but certainly no more than that. In the natural order of things, this is brought about by technological change and by the need for human adjustment. This would be normal in a dynamic age such as even we manage to live in in misgoverned Australia. This problem is always with us. In my opinion, from now until the end of the century, at least 10 per cent or at the very most 15 per cent will need to be retrained. Of course, if we accept the Government's context, as it is called, of rural reconstruction that percentage will be doubled immediately but without reason and justification. 
Having accepted the fact that there will be a need because of technological and human reasons, we must apply ourselves to the details of the scheme. Unfortunately, as was stated by the honourable member for Dawson, the Opposition has not been able to apply itself to the details of the scheme because it has not had the opportunity of examining them. However, Opposition members have immediately discerned that the scheme does not cover all the people who are affected. An important point to be made here is that when the primary producer is forced out of the industry, other people who are part of rural production will be banished with him. This is happening now. The Opposition maintains that any rural reconstruction scheme is incomplete unless it takes info account all the people who are affected. The great question mark lying against this scheme and the Government's attitude generally to the rural crisis is: Where is it envisaged that this retraining scheme will take place? Is it intended that the retraining should be part of a movement out of rural areas? I point out that at a time of rising and serious unemployment across the countryside, people are standing around unwillingly and impatiently and receiving only 20 per cent of their normal earnings as a social services handout. This situation exists when at least 100 years of work is necessary in most areas to correct deficiencies in roads, hospitals, schools and public facilities which are, generally speaking, substandard in so many areas. The Government has people standing by idly - a spectre of the 1930s that our fathers and grandfathers knew. This is ridiculous and unnecessary. The Opposition asks the Government in relation to this scheme: Will these people be retrained to get out of the industry and to evacuate rural areas like refugees, or will it be part of a scheme to ensure the continuing viability not only of the individual but also of the whole community? I have serious doubts about the Government's intentions because only last evening the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who is a senior member of the Liberal Party, made a statement in relation to the countryside of the State in which I happen to live. He said: 
The people of New South Wales - and New South Wales means the people of Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong, and to hell with the rest- 
-The honourable member for Mitchell, who is a senior member on the Government side. In case there was any thought that he had been carried away and did not really mean what he said, some time later he repeated this concept when he said: 
As I said before, New South Wales now stands for Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong. We should either divide up the rest and make it into  2  States or give it back to the Aboriginals and ask them to try and do something with it. 
That statement was made by a responsible and senior member of the Government back benches; a man who, I might say, is a senior spokesman on the wool industry. He has been telling us exactly what we must do with the wool industry, how we must not interfere with the forces of free marketing, and must not implement that dreadful Labor policy of acquisition, appraisal and orderly marketing. He seems to have let a cat out of the bag when he makes statements of that nature which have gone unchallenged. Not one member of either of the Government parties has dissociated himself from them. I hope they will take the opportunity to do so. But when the sort of thinking is being put forward in a debate in the House of Representatives that a State should be given back to its original inhabitants, presumably because of a failure to persevere and a lack of interest, it causes members of the Opposition to be seriously concerned about the philosophy and intentions of the Government as they touch on the primary industry sector at this time. 
Local government bodies representing parts of my electorate have made representations to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and have seen the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  They have come forward and have said: 'We have this unemployment problem' and have asked for help. So far, they have received no help at all. The problem remains; action is suspended. It has been said that this scheme will help eligible farmers to undertake some retraining and receive some personal assistance. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, the Opposition accepts the principle of rural retraining although not in the Government's context and not in relation to the philosophy which was enunciated on behalf of the Government by the honourable member for Mitchell but in the context of normal technological change which takes place across the countryside in a dynamic situation. 
I should like to make 5 points in summation. Firstly, the Opposition rejects the inadequacy of the Government's proposal as it leaves out so many of the people with whom we are concerned and who are affected at present. Secondly, the Opposition accepts the need for technological change and human adjustment which in any decade could affect 10 per cent of the farm force and at present would affect no more than IS per cent. Thirdly, we would welcome a rural retraining scheme on a sound basis and in a sound integrated context. Fourthly, the Opposition would want the provisions of the scheme widened to cover all the rural people who are involved in hardship. Finally, the scheme should be brought forward in the context of an overall rural development programme designed to remove the present scandal in the rural heart of the nation - a depression in what has been claimed by successive Treasurers to be one of the most prosperous and rich nations on the face of the earth. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What aid has been made available to Indonesia by Australia in each year since 1967 In 
Devisa Kredit; 
Food Aid; 
Technical Aid; 
Commodity Aid; 
Project Aid; and 
Other forms of aid. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
How many Australian citizens have been deported under the provisions of the Crimes Act since World War 11? 
What weretheir names and offences in each case? 
Does the Government inform naturalised citizens that they have the full rights and privileges of native born citizens when in fact they can be deported? 
Is consideration being given to the elimination of this discrimination? 
asked the Acting Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Can he say whether (a) loan funds owed by the Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board at 30th June 1970 amounted to $63 7m, with interest payments, loan repayments and associated expenses totalling $42m representing half the rates collected, (b)$900m are committed by the Board to essential works over the next 10 years and (c) the Board is committed to repay $300m of its loans in the same period. 
In view of the urgent need to provide basic facilities for 3,000,000 people, will he confer with the appropriate State authorities and the Board to seewhat Commonwealth assistance can be given directly to ease the burden on the individual ratepayer and make the planned works programme possible. 
I rise to support the extension of the levy for very good reasons associated with the support that the levy funds have given, particularly to the research carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I want to refer to some of the difficulties which are being experienced at the present time in relation to the continuation of vital research for many of our primary industries. Just before I refer to that I think it would be fair to place on record the fact that the beef industry and the meat industry generally at the present time has a hope for expansion which is unparallelled, and far from ever suggesting that there is any reason why the countryside should shut up shop and go out of business there is every reason to give it all the help to become as efficient as possible to enable it to bear the still major burden of earning the export income of this nation. This is the vital thing that must be kept in mind. We trade to live; we live to trade. When one looks at the figures for last year one finds that 51 per cent of our earnings originated from primary exports. There is no prospect of changing materially the emphasis there. 
It has been said that Australia can rely on minerals. But the Government has indicated that there is no possibility of doing that for 14 years. That is in the Government's assessment. The Opposition does not always agree with the Government, But from the Government's assessment it would be 14 years before the mineral industry could take up the export position now occupied by primary industry. At the moment we face 14 years of poverty unless primary industry thrives. This should be kept well in mind. It is a factor that should dominate our thinking and our attitude to primary industries at the moment, not for themselves alone but for the contribution they make to the overall economy of the nation, because they are earning the money to buy the materials which keep the factories going and which keep the economy moving along. 
It is of concern not only to the people living in the countryside but also to the people who live in other parts of the nation that these industries should continue to earn essential and vital export income. Let me say that very bluntly today, in applying myself to the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Bill. I was delighted to hear the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mi  Sinclair) say in his second reading speech: 
The service and investigation section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has used the funds obtained from the levy, together wilh a matching Commonwealth contribution, to assist meat works in many fields including quality control, sanitation and hygiene - all of which are assuming increasing importance in the meat trade. 
This is true. We should be seizing in a better way the opportunities, particularly in our own region of the world, lor expanding the meat trade. I suppose that a considerable amount of our trade is conducted with Singapore. At the moment another nation in our own region has taken half of the market we could procure for ourselves there as a result of its better approach to trading. At present there is every reason in the world why we should maintain the intensity and level of research to ensure that the efficiency of these export industries is improved, while recognising the fact that they have already reached a level of efficiency which has enabled us to hold our markets. 
On the farm there is, I suppose, a level of efficiency on a per man basis and a per acre basis second to none. That is a pretty good achievement. But once the stock or the crop leaves the farm gate it runs into some of the most archaic and inefficient marketing systems in the world. The efficiency of the individual producer has had to carry the great load of marketing and handling inefficiency. So there is an urgent need for reform at all levels. That does not mean that we can leave the level of farm efficiency where it is, high as it is. This is why there is support for measures such as this one. 
Let me come back to my earlier comment in relation to the CSIRO and its research. At present there is widespread concern in the CSIRO about the future of much of its work, because much of the work in terms of the service to primary industry is based on levies such as this. Because the industries are under attack at the present time for various reasons - mostly reasons associated with lack of government action or government initiative - there is to be a cutback in the flow of funds. 
So we have the paradox of an increasing need for efficiency, an increasing need to ensure the competitiveness of our individual farmers and producers and at the same time a reduction in the flow of money to the research essential to enable that efficiency to be maintained. We should recognise that research cannot be turned on and off like a tap. Very often it is not possible even in a single year to get the results one wants or to secure the basic information one needs on any one of the major problems that confront primary industry. Research is essentially a time consuming and, I am sorry to say, a money consuming activity. This has to be recognised. I am glad that the Government has decided to continue the levy for this research, but what I am concerned about in the overall picture of the CSIRO and the activities designed to service primary industry is that if the flow of funds from the primary sector is not adequate, will the Government permit the research to be interrupted, terminated or reduced significantly? 
At present there is no doubt at all that in total terms the amount of time and effort put in by the CSIRO to tackling the problems of the primary sector will be less for the ensuing year. This is a matter which must concern us. I make a plea today that the level of research by the CSIRO, particularly to service the primary industries, be maintained and not reduced, even if that means finding some special funds for this purpose to bridge the gap. However, the proposal which is before us will provide from the levy - according to the Minister - finance to allow continuity of operations over a period in excess of 3 years. 1 welcome this. I would specifically ask the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  who is at the table, either to ask the Minister for Primary Industry or to answer on his own behalf whether the service and investigation section of the CSIRO will not, in that triennium, find its activities reduced. lt is all right to say: 'Yes, we will continue. We will do all the things that we have said in the past should be carried out'. That is a very nice, easy statement to make. I think honourable members should be reassured that there will be no reduction either in personnel or volume of work at this time. I repeat that a very great case has been made out, which is before the Government at the moment, to maintain and indeed increase the research activities to ensure the competitiveness of the industries that are earning more than half of all the export income of the nation. I would agree with the point of view that has been expressed, that we are faced with a period of protein boom particularly in our own region of the world in South-East Asia. Today more people than ever before in the history of the world are eating meat. In our own region more people are getting very much more protein than ever before. People are having meat once a week where previously they had it once a year. It may not be that the total population is sharing equally in this boom, but there are significant numbers of people, in each and every case amounting to several times the population of Australia, who have seen significant and measurable increases in their living standards in the last few years, particularly in the last 3 or 4 years. 
So one can see the opportunities that exist for us in Australia to service these needs in our own region of the world. The measure before the House will help us to do that for our benefit and for the benefit of the people of our region. In our own region there has to be mutual reciprocity. I hope that the levy will help to maintain the level of research activity. Let me put forward again these 2 points: Firstly, will the measure ensure absolutely that there will be no reduction in the investigation, services and personnel provided by the CSIRO? Secondly, will the opportunity be taken to look at the whole range of primary research to ensure that it will not be reduced and that the current trend of its reduction will be ended? 1 submit that the current concern among the officers in the divisions of the CSIRO should be obviated. I support the measure and I hope that it will do what the Minister claimed for it in his second reading speech. 
1 entirely endorse the principles in the Bill now before the House but I am at a loss to understand the fragmented and restricted nature of the legislation. 1 was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  I do not think he meant to do it but to my way of thinking he pinpointed the essential weaknesses in the legislation: He said it was legislation designed to help the export of manufactured goods. He indicated that at the present time manufactured goods account for some 20 per cent of our exports. The point that occurs to me immediately is that the primary sector accounts for SI per cent of exports, but they are not in fact covered by these provisions for buyer credit. 
The honourable member for Isaacs said that in the mid-1970s $6,000m should be the level of our exports if we are to maintain our living standards and momentum in the economy, and he said that we would have to achieve this by relying on manufactured exports. I wish him luck on that, but 1 very much doubt it. We know very well that the mineral situation, which is certainly 100 per cent foreign controlled, is not the answer to export problems in the immediate future and in this century. We know that there are great difficulties facing manufactured goods in competitiveness with the rest of the world. It is my assessment that we will be relying on primary industries from now to the end of the century for the bulk of our export income. As I say, let us by all means make the effort in both the primary and secondary spheres, but this is precisely the point at issue at the moment, as far as 1 am concerned. Here we have a piece of legislation which deals with only 20 per cent of our exports and ignores 5 1 per cent of our exports. 
The honourable member for Isaacs also make some other very interesting comments. In fact, he made a stricture on the Australian economy when he said that incentives to develop in the United States of America, Japan and even Ireland are much better than the incentives given to our industry. I hope I have not misquoted him. He is quite right. In fact, the effort and incentives that are provided and the facilities that are made available in the tiny Irish nation have in fact resulted in a performance twice that of ours in economic terms in recent years. Surely this is a challenge to all of us in Australia, when we find that we have been left behind in recent years to that degree. 1 hope that the stricture will go home to those who deserve it. 
Credit is the essential of world trade at the moment. Credit means time to pay; the terms of payment. It will determine who will buy and in fact who will sell. The United States has recognised this because it established the Commodity Credit Corporation under Public Law 480. In fact, this has been done basically to promote United States primary exports. But under this American law the United States has moved into our own region of the world, - our own neighbourhood, and it has made sales on the basis of 20-year terms, a 5 per cent interest rate and local currency transactions. This has all been done under this United States Public Law 480. The United States trading agencies, and the people who produce, have received a tremendous amount of help from the operation of that law. Here we have the most powerful nation in the world moving into our own region and trading most vigorously and on the basis of credit. The result is that these people in the United States have taken from us - I am not saying unfairly; they have done it with their vigour and with government assistance - markets that we should have had for wheat. They have taken from us markets which we could have serviced with rice. I mention just 2 commodities as examples. They have done that because of their utilisation of credit facilities. 
Here we are with a piece of legislation which is designed to do a very laudable thing, as my distinguished colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has pointed out. Under this legislation we are to provide facilities for buyer credit. That is excellent. But surely, when we examine the legislation and the second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  we find that what it does is to put the Export Payments Insurance Corporation and the Commissioner in a straitjacket. The Government says: 'If you want to get out of that straitjacket you may go to the Minister for Trade and Industry and/ or the Treasurer and/or another Minister who may be involved, and perhaps ultimately to the Prime Minister'. I will return to that in a moment. 
It is pretty obvious at the present time that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, although it has proved useful, has, in the term of its operation, not really been given its head and has not really been of such value to our export industries as it should be. I can well remember the Government virtually declaring black all of the transactions which the Corporation desired to conduct with Indonesia for a particular period of time. The Government said: 'No, you cannot underwrite transactions in Indonesia because the country is too unstable.' So, for a significant period, we did not in fact attempt trade penetration there. It might be said that there was instability and there were risks. Of course there was instability, and of course there were risks, but other people took them and they arc reaping the benefits today. Certainly they may have had some losses, but when w look at Indonesia, which is our closest neighbour, we find that we are fifteenth on  A*  list of trading and participating countries there. 
Yet here we are talking about our own region of the world; the region in which the Government makes some assistance available; the region into which Australian people as citizens and individuals, through organisations such as Community Aid Abroad, put funds to help raise living standards. We are involved in the region because it is our region; it is our future. We are a part of this region, whether we like it or not. Yet when we look at our trading patterns we find that they have been inadequate and that the role played by (he Export Payments Insurance Corporation has not been adequate because of the restrictions which have been placed on it. So the questions that must be asked are: Why the timidity? Why the restrictions? 
Let me look quite specifically at what those restrictions are. The Bill and the Minister's second reading speech indicate that the credit term sought must be in excess of 5 years or necessary to match foreign competition. The next restriction is that the Australian content of a loan must be 65 per cent but that in some cases it could be 50 per cent. If it could be 50 per cent, why specify 65 per cent? There must be a guarantee for more than 80 per cent of the loan. But when one looks at the Minister's second reading speech one finds that in certain circumstances the guarantee can be less. Why specify 80 per cent? Then it is provided that it has to be a minimum loan, after the down payment, of $200,000. Again a restriction has been imposed. But then it is stated that the minimum loan could be less. 
Then we have the fact that trading banks have agreed to participate in the scheme. That is jolly decent of them. They have agreed to participate and the Government hopes that they will continue to participate. Whether they participate or not, it is the Government's duty to ensure, if it has a scheme which it wants to implement, that it will use its instrumentalities, if others fail to participate. There is no need to apologise for that, yet there is an apology there. Finally, having pointed out all these restrictions contained in the Bill and expounded by the Minister in his second reading speech, we find that he has an escape clause. He has created this elaborate straitjacket, then in bis second reading speech he says: 
The Bil) provides (hat the Commissioner of SP 1C may refer to the Minister for Trade and Industry, for his consideration, particular cases  which do not meet all the eligibility criteria. The responsibility for referring such cases to the Government will therefore rest with EPIC. 
Let me pause there for a moment. The Government has imposed all these restrictions, but what it is saying is that the Commissioner, if he has a case that does not seem to meet the criteria, may then take it up with the Government. The Government has told the Commissioner that this is his book of rules, but it is saying that if it does not seem adequate he can come back to the Government and discuss a particular case with it. Let me quote again what the Minister said will happen if the Commissioner decides to do this. He said: 
Every case so referred will be considered on its merits by the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Treasurer, in consultation with other Ministers if necessary. 
Surely this is a clumsy procedure. Surely this is a bit of timidity which is quite unnecessary and which in fact will shackle the Commissioner and the Corporation. I cannot see any advantages but I can see many disadvantages in the way this Bill has been put together. I am sure that the Commissioner will hesitate to go through all that tortuous routine and if he decides to put up a case he may do so as a matter of form and say: 'I will write to the Minister and to the Treasurer and they can write back and say no. I will have done my duty and that is all there is to it.' I can understand him taking this course because he has been told *You are hobbled to this extent so do not get out and gallop'. I feel that an explanation is warranted as to why we should have this clumsy piece of legislation and the timidity contained in it. 
What a tragedy it is that this Bill is restricted to capital goods. What a tragedy it is when we have the great wool industry in trouble. The wool industry is our greatest single earner of foreign exchange. It has been and it still is. Yet here we have in the national Parliament a piece of legislation designed to help all the other industries in the manufacturing section only but there is no assistance for the biggest single export earner. I ask honourable members: Does this appear to be reasonable at a time when New Zealand has an offer on wool of 115 days credit. This is a very significant improvement on the 15 days under our incredible 'auction' system. Under our system that is the normal time given but the New Zealanders have said We have got the wool to sell so we will extend credit facilities'. Good luck to them but I am concerned about our own industry. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to the value of the Corporation in promoting exports of greasy and processed wool. This is so important at this time because we have a product that is not selling under the ramshackle system which we still continue to operate. Therefore it should be of major concern to the Government and the Corporation that there are buyer credit facilities for wool. We are in the situation where the Japanese and the Indonesians are showing initiatives in cotton processing and cotton utilisation. This is an industry which suits their economy and they are right next door to us engaged in this industry on that basis. Again, good luck to them from their point of view but where are the initiatives that we are taking in this matter? There are no initiatives. At the present time in South-East Asia there are I think, 5 new flour milling projects of considerable capacity. There are 3 in Indonesia. We are concerned with none of them. We are just not there. Once again we are at the end of the international trade queue or at any rate at that level behind other countries. The Corporation could be used as an instrument to facilitate the sales of his major export commodity. The Corporation could ensure that there is initiative in processing and utilisation in neighbouring countries. Again I ask: Why not? Why has this not been included in this Bill? Why is there this restriction? What is the reason for this timidity? I think the answers should be forthcoming. I am sorry that the Minister for Trade and Industry who introduced this measure is not here to give the answers. He is missing and so are the explanations. 
I welcome the decision to continue to pay a bounty on phosphate fertilisers until 31st December 1974. I do so because of the importance to the Australian farmer of maintaining and indeed increasing his efficiency and his output per man and per acre. Associated with this is the judicious use of fertilisers. We have been able to cope with the most expensive and archaic handling of marketing systems in the world only because of the efficiency within the farm gate. Therefore, we must continue to maintain and improve that efficiency. 
At the same time I have reservations about whether the farmer is receiving the full value of the bounty. It has been estimated that he receives less than half of the $12 per ton. It may well be that a major effect of the bounty - I do not say the major effect - has been to help the manufacturer, the British Phosphate Commission and the Republic of Nauru. There may be excellent reasons why they should benefit from the support which the Government is giving. However, this is not the proclaimed intention of the legislation. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  claimed that the bounty had been the major factor in keeping selling prices stable and it was desirable to maintain this in view of the cost situation and the marketing difficulties facing primary producers. This is the proclaimed intention of the legislation. It is all the more reason then to ensure that the farmer is getting the benefit because this is the intention of the legislation before the House. 
The Government has claimed that the bounty was instrumental in spreading the use of superphosphate for pastures and grain production. I think it is interesting to recall that when the bounty was first introduced the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who was at that time the honourable member for Wannon, said that he looked forward to the building up of our sheep numbers from 160 million to 250 million by using more superphosphate. It has also been claimed by Ministers and Government supporters, not in this debate but during previous debates associated with similar measures, that the 41 million acres of improved pasture in 1962-63 had been increased as a result of the bounty to 54 million in 1967- 68, the fatal eve of the rural recession. It has also been claimed that we have increased cattle numbers by 3 million as a result of the bounty. 
These are claims and I will not attempt to examine them. But the one fact that we can hold to is that the amount of superphosphate used as a result of the bounty increased to a peak of 4.3 million tons in 1967. Why did that happen? It has been suggested that the expanded use of superphosphate was brought about by the bounty itself. I submit that the expansion was due in part because of the very active encouragement given by the Federal Government right up to the eve of the rural depression in 1969. Encouragement was given by the Government to farmers to expand all phases of primary production. 
As I said, this encouragement continued right up to the latter part of 1969 when it will be remembered the Government forced the introduction of wheat rationing in the middle of a season. In the early part of that year farmers still were being encouraged by Ministers and by supporters of the Government to expand. I believe the expansion carried upwards the use of superphosphate. We find that the use of superphosphate is dropping. I do not think that this is associated directly, exclusively or even in a major way with the drop in cattle or even sheep numbers. However, as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has observed, possibly with the introduction of wheat quotas this drop has had the major effect. 
There are questions which I would like to pose' to the Minister. I do not anticipate that he will be able to answer them in his reply to this debate because he may not have taken them into account. But I hope that he will examine and take into account what I intend to ask. I hope that on another occasion he will give the House the benefit of his investigations. I would like the Minister to examine the ramifications of the bounty and its application to ensure that the farmer has received the full value. This means an examination of the effect of the bounty during the time that it has been paid. According to some interpretations the value to the farmer has been less than 50 per cent. Can we improve that benefit to the farmer now and in the future? 
If we take the benefit of the bounty- 
I am putting it to the Minister, yes. I think that my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has done considerable research into this and I believe he would be able to give the Minister from the voluminous references that he always has on hand, chapter and verse of the breakdown of the $12 as it relates to the farmer, the manufacturer, the British Phosphate Commission and the Republic of Nauru. 
I say again that I think it is terribly important that these things are dealt with because this has been asked as a question. Now is the time to pose the question. There is no point in our letting this debate go by and the Minister saying later that we did not query or raise this question. If this percentage is not correct, let us have the rebuttal. 
Also, it has been suggested - and I am putting this forward - that there is a major stockpileof superphosphate at present wh ich could mean that there is room for a reduction in price even within the operations of the bounty. Again, I think probably it would be interesting to know whether the Minister and the Government have examined whether there are stockpiles at present and whether there is a possibility of price adjustment because of that situation. 
Finally, I would like to make the point - and I think this is a unanimous view - that we want to see stability of prices maintained. In addition we want to see whether there is room for a reduction in the price. Also, we want to see the optimum use made of phosphatic fertilisers; and, incidentally, the optimum use does not always mean the maximum use. Now is probably the time when we should review the level of application of fertilisers to many crops to ensure that we are not perhaps a little too generous. I believe that this is another factor that could be looked at. I have posed these questions to the Minister in a helpful way because they are being asked across the countryside and I think it is right that they should be raised in this debate. Like my colleague the honourable member for Dawson who has spoken for the Opposition, we are happy to see the bounty continued for the reasons I have indicated. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the Australian average market price for greasy wool covering all wool sold from 1st July 1970 to the commencement of operations of the Australian Wool Commission on 17th November 1970 and for all wool sold since that date to the end of the 1970-71 series of wool sales. 
Has his attention been drawn to the provisional figures released by the Joint Wool Selling Organisation and quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald of 6th July 1971 stating that the average price for the last week of the 1970-71 season was 25.44 cents. 
If so, what is his attitude to this figure, when it is associated with the information available in relation to part (1) above and the reported statement of  Sir William  Gunn,  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board, on the programme' This Day Tonight' on Wednesday, 4th August 1971, that since commencement of operations of the Australian Wool Commission, in that 8 month period, the average market price for wool has gone up by 6 cents a pound. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry tell the House what is the present level and value of the wool stockpile held by the Australian Wool Commission? Have substantial purchases on behalf of overseas countries, including Russia, been sought by direct negotiation with the Commission and have some sales been not approved by the Government? If so, will the Minister outline the Government's guidelines and restrictions which apply to the Commission's commercial transactions and which in one case negatived a move and possible sale to the value of $8m? 
We are dealing with an Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill but the debate has ramifications beyond just apples and pears. I would draw attention to the terms of the amendment which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  moved. They are:  . . while not opposing the Bill, this House  is  of the opinion that a single national marketing authority should be established which will be the sole authority responsible for the export marketing of Australian apples and pears and which  will administer, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, a well formulated apple and pear stabilisation scheme. 
What we have said is that it is our considered opinion that there should be a national marketing authority and we have invited all members of Parliament to join us in this expression of opinion. It is not a matter of supporting the Government as all honourable members opposite or their predecessors have done for 22 years. It is a matter of being members of Parliament and giving expression to a principle. This is a terribly important point because across the countryside at the present time we have very just and correct demands nol only for a national authority to end the petty wrangling between the provinces which are called States but also for a national authority to govern citrus marketing as well as the marketing of apples and pears. We have a great ground swell of opinion in favour of a national meat marketing authority. We have these suggestions put 'forward. But we also have many honourable members opposite who, when the occasion suits them, pay lip service to this principle. They are being asked today in quite a reasonable way to say as members of Parliament and not as members of their respective political groups hiding behind the Government that this is their opinion. That is all. It does not change the Government's legislation. All it calls for is an expression of support for a principle which has wide and deep support in every State of the Commonwealth. But what have honourable members opposite tended to say in this debate? 
I am delighted to hear the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  say that there is no support for national marketing in his bailiwick among the people he represents. At least he is consistent because he spoke last night on this measure and said that national marketing authorities are more trouble than they are worth, involve too much money and are not good to us at all. He may not have used those words but he knows that that is the impression that his remarks were intended to create. Fair enough; he stands by those remarks today. I hope. that when these great bodies across the nation .go to honourable members opposite , to. put for ward these views and receive the sweet words they will understand that they are getting one answer in their electorate and another answer in the House of Representatives. That is the situation. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  told the House that 60 per cent of the agricultural income of Tasmania comes from apples and that the Huon Valley is eminently suited for the production of this crop. Then he said that the growers' request for a marketing authority raises constitutional and financial difficulties. I might say that he was joined by his friends in this view. They say: "Oh, yes, we will have to have that one day in the future'. It will be one day in the future, but meanwhile 50 per cent of the apple growers in Tasmania are bankrupt and just hanging on. How long are they supposed to hang on . while the Government organises its members and while its members find their courage. 
It is a little tiresome to come into. this chamber and to listen to honourable members put up alibis for doing nothing. Fifty per cent of the people they represent are in trouble, yet they come in here and talk of constitutional and financial difficulties and say: 'By all means let us find the money when they go broke; by all means let us move them off their farms.' The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  said that growers in his electorate were broke and he asked the Prime Minister for assistance the other day. I suggest that one of the greatest forms of assistance we could have is a proper marketing system, which is desired across the nation. 
I think it is terribly important to have recorded in Hansard the remark of the honourable member for Murray that he did more for his people. Well, God bless him and I hope he keeps doing more for them. But I suggest that now he has found this courage and he has a burst of independence let him demonstrate his courage so that we can see where he stands on this -matter. People are going broke and these are the people who need the assistance and expertise of an orderly marketing system. It is of no use for honourable members to yawn as they  sit in 
Government in this chamber. I say to them, stay awake and stay with it because what 1 have to say to them is this- 
The honourable member for Angas says that it is an old Australian custom. This is all nonsense. The honourable member should tell his constituents that he came into this chamber and voted against an expression of opinion, not a matter which affects the fall of the Government or a matter which affects the people he has supported for 22 years. I am not cavilling about that but I suggest that honourable members opposite should find their courage and vote on an expression of opinion on a principle. That is all I ask. What I am saying is that here we have a situation where we have invited an expression of opinion. That is all we have asked for. In return all we received was a series of alibis, except from the honourable member for Angas who is directly opposed to our proposal. The honourable member for Denison says to the 50 per cent of the Tasmanian apple growers, who are in  serious  trouble and who . are on the verge of bankruptcy: 'Wait, my friends. We will come up with it when we can see our way through the difficulties.' But in fact in his own State under the authority of the Tasmanian Parliament there was a report from a board of inquiry which stated very clearly and definitely: 'We recommend the formation of a statutory body.' 
Then it has been said in Tasmania that the Premier of that State was so seized with the importance and urgency of this matter that he wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  My colleague, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  made a very simple inquiry of the Prime Minister. He asked: 'Have you received the letter?' The Prime Minister said: 'I do not recall having received it. I may have and it could be on my desk but I do not know if I have not really got it.' The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 'Yes, you have.' That had a very great impact on the 50 per cent of the people of Tasmania who are bankrupt. He had lost the letter. He found it, perhaps. Someone may have it but we do not know. The Tasmanian represen tatives in this Government sit smilingly in their seats while their growers go broke. I think they should be ashamed of themselves. There is no urgency in the matters they have raised. They, did not address themselves to the deficiencies of the scheme. They did not address themselves to the fact that the scheme starts a year behind scratch with cost right away. They did not address themselves to the fact that there are 3 million bushels of fruit swinging in the scheme, They did not suggest what we might do with that fruit, and these are the supporters of the Govern- ment with the expertise and the weight of government with them. What will they i do with the 3 million bushels? . They would have to have monumental jumpers up which to put that amount of fruit. 
I am a bit saddened because after all this is an industry which is in serious trouble. A committee of inquiry was set up under the authority of the Tasmanian Parliament and in this industry we have people for whom I have deep respect, yet we. have a measure which is obviously inadequate. We have said in a very reasonable way: 'Let us have it and let us try to improve it.' What we have said - and again I think we are being reasonable - is that wc are not asking the Government to go back on a decision of its caucus or its supporters. We have simply said, for goodness sake admit with us that something more has to be done. What did honourable members opposite do? They immediately made a political issue out of it. We did not do (his. No honourable member from this side of the House who has spoken in this debate has said this. The honourable member for Dawson dealt with the facts of the situation. That is ali he did. I think it is about time that there was a little bit of maturity on the Government side in relation to these matters, and I am sorry that there is not. The Minister for Primary Industry went to Tasmania and he was widely reported as issuing a warning to the Tasmanian fruit industry. I will quote a report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' which I think is usually accepted as being reliable when it reports statements by Ministers. It reads: 
The Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  has warned the Tasmanian fruit industry that unless it improves handling techniques, Commonwealth aid to assist in freight increases would become impossible to justify'. 
This is what the Minister said when speaking at the conference of the Tasmanian Apple and Pear Growers' Federation. That article went on: 
It must review marketing and handling arrangements from wharf to point of sale. It must also review all aspects of the call-up and loading of fruit, the utilisation of cargo and minimum quantities to shipping mark and bill of lading', he said. 
This is tremendously good advice but who can do this - the growers in the Huon Valley, the Federation or that conference? Obviously there is only one body which could implement this very desirable recommendation of the Minister himself, and that is a statutory authority. Of course it is. This is a reasonable position and the reality of the situation. The Minister has said: 'All right, these things need to be done'. I accept the Minister's assessment. No doubt he was well advised on this occasion. But he said to the growers: 'You must do it'. The growers have said very plainly: 'We want a statutory authority and we want it to help us to do these things'. The growers have said to the Tasmanian Government: 'We want this. Will you try to bring it about'? The Tasmanian Government, as I understand it - and it is very difficult to understand the Tasmanian Government but I give it the benefit of the doubt - said that it also supports the growers and it has asked the Commonwealth to show some initiative. Once again Government supporters say that it is up to the growers. This is absurd, and I think the Government supporters know this, lt is a form of procrastination. It is of no use to proceed along these lines. Of course financial outlays will be involved. 
After all, what are we faced with at the present time in our rural industries? We are at present faced with outlays for rural reconstruction. We are faced with real losses in terms of people not producing or being unemployed. The banking system - and I am not terribly concerned about the banking system because it seems to be doing quite well without my assistance - has a stake with the pastoral finance companies amounting to about $2, 000m. It can be seen that a lot of people are involved. Surely to goodness we are not asking for too much. When I say 'we' I speak on behalf of the growers. I will show why I have said these things on their behalf in  a  moment. It is not only on behalf of my own growers but also on behalf of the people in the Huon Valley. Surely it is not asking too much to say to the Federal Government: 'For once show some initiative'. 
I have just said that I feel I can speak with some sincerity and some knowledge of growers' problems, apart from my own involvement in the Riverina district in the production of apples and pears. At the invitation of my distinguished colleague, the honourable member for Franklin, I went to Tasmania and I went from Rich*mond where the honourable member lives down to and right through the Huon Valley. I visited properties and I was told by the people on those properties what their problems were and what their cost situation was. I attended a meeting of about 300 apple growers ot Geeveston, which is  a  delightful spot. The growers at that meeting were not there for any party political purpose. They were there simply to express their thoughts as individuals and the thoughts of their industry as it is organised. They said what they hoped would be done for their industry which, as has been pointed out, earns 60 per cent of all the export income of Tasmania as far as agriculture is concerned. They were quite definite. They said they wanted a statutory marketing authority. 
There was not one dissenting voice, as my colleague says. The growers at that meeting said that they had approached the Tasmanian Government and as far as they could understand their State Government - they were quite blunt; they did not have the greatest confidence in it - that Government also supported the growers' view and presented it to the Prime Minister and the Federal Government. The growers also pointed out that their burdens were growing. One grower,  a  very efficient grower whom I would be very proud to have in my electorate, said that he was now spending in a single year $7,000 on spray materials. That is a tremendous investment. He asked why he as an Australian and as a Tasmanian could not enjoy the same assistance as his New Zealand competitors did. The Minister for Primary Industry told me in answer to  a  question in August of this year that the majority of insecticides and fungicidesused by New Zealand orchardists are imported duty free and this is an arrangement by the New Zealand Government which in some cases results in our competitors in New Zealand receiving spray materials at a cost as much as SO per cent !ess than our own people do. They asked only for that. When h came to shipping they were confronted with the monopoly situation on the Australian waterfront. I refer to the shipping conference monopoly. They went from one monopoly to another. Again they said: 'Why could not our national Government display something of the enterprise even of the New Zealand Government which moved in an effective way to reduce freights on apples and pears  from New Zealand which resulted in a saving of $800,000 a year? Why could not our national Government for once, even in its old age and decline, have used this sort of initiative?' We have not seen this sort of initiative but there is no reason why we should not ask for it. There is no reason why the Government should not give this sort of consideration to the problem. 
It has been said in relation to the overall problem that perhaps 25,000 tons of pears could go to waste in the Goulburn Valley - drop on the ground and rot. Surely there is a need for an overall national programme, as I said with some emotion at - the beginning of my speech. I think I could be pardoned for showing some emotion in these matters. - lt does not give me great pleasure to go to industry after industry, group after group and family after family to find them asking questions to which we are not given answers in the national Parliament. One of the things which is obvious in our country is that since Federation we have not yet become truly a nation in trade, finance, investment or any of the other major matters. We are still a cluster of petty provinces. This is dramatically so when it comes to marketing fresh fruit. 
I said last night in. answer to a Government supporter who was speaking that the same problem arises in relation to citrus fruits. Have honourable members ever seen a group of salesmen of foreign citrus in Asia, for example? If one finds 3 people who are at each other's throats more than anyone else, these 3 people will probably be identified as 3 Australians from 3 rival areas happily cutting one another's throats publicly because of the fragmented and stupid way we have marketed for a long time: This is a matter of economic life and death for literally thousands of people in Tasmania - not only the growers but also the people in the towns such as the port of Hobart. Yet the Minister for Primary Industry inexplicably has wiped the Parliament again and has left us. That is not a right and proper procedure. He should be here when his own legislation is being debated, lt is his duty. If he cannot manage his manifold duties then I suggest he should step down and make way for somebody who can. It is not good enough to have this casual kind of approach to a matter which is so vital and essential to the people of a whole State. There has been a long delay in this legislation. We have had legislation that is inadequate on 2 major counts. The first is the cost basis after 2 years. 
The honourable members says 4 years. My goodness, that is an indictment if ever there was one. Four years for a people in trouble, and the best the Government can come up with in answer to the constructive suggestions that  the Opposition has made is that it will do something when it overcomes the constitutional difficulties which were not seen by the committee of inquiry that sat in Tasmania and when it overcomes some of the financial difficulties which never seem to exist in matters appertaining to the mining industry, for example. When it comes to these matters for a primary industry, no matter how important it is, we get this very casual approach which has led us into our present trouble. It is still not too late for members of the. Parliament, as distinct from members of the Government, to find their consciences in this matter and to say: Yes, it is right. We will need a national authority. It is our opinion'. 
If the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is not of that opinion, then let him hold it. The only thing I would ask him to do is that when he is asked in his electorate whether he supports it or not, he will be consistent. That goes for each and every member of Parliament whether he is on the other side of the House or on this side. I commend the amendment for all those reasons which I have stated fully with all the sincerity I can muster. 
In the first instance I echo the sentiments which have been expressed tonight by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid).  I say very sincerely that he spoke from conscience. He did not speak as  a  member of any particular political group. He spoke as a member of the Commonwealth Parliament, from conscience. I believe that there is a responsibility on our nation to give a lead in our region of the world in regard to this refugee problem. I hope that the honourable member's plea which was made in a responsible and genuine way will find an echo in all parts of the Parliament. Certainly I support it entirely and in a completely. non-Party spirit at this late hour tonight. After all, it is 10 minutes after midnight. Perhaps it might be said that we should all be home in bed. But let me make it quite clear that there are many people in the countryside who are in trouble. 1 do not object to standing a little bit longer or staying up a little bit later to say some of the things that I believe in. If honourable members do not want to be here and do not want to participate then let them stay home, resign and not participate. 
If the honourable member wants to follow me he may do so by all means. What I have said was quite sincere. I did not know that the honourable member was going to raise this matter tonight. I recognise his sincerity and dedication and I have given up some of the reference and some of the time I was going to devote to the problems in the countryside to support him on this issue. I have said that and I mean it quite sincerely. I hope that all honourable members will join with the honourable member for Holt in seeing that something more meaningful is done. After all,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is in our region and we should not be looking to Scandinavia to give us a lead in our region of the world. I am sorry; I should have said  Mr Speaker'.  I will say this:  Mr Speaker  is always in the chair for the adjournment debate, which gives it its due recognition. 1 accept this and I applaud him for it. 
In the last few days, in fact since Thursday, there has been in our country one of the finest demonstrations of national sentiment I know of - I realise that my knowledge may be limited - in 20 years. This arose out of perhaps a quite accidental development. The matter was raised by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  when he expressed concern that a considerable area of our country was to be sold, leased or given away in effect to outside people for perhaps 20c an acre. He said that this was not a very good thing to do. He did not say this in relation to just one area; he said that the whole of Australia's resources, our country and the things that are part of our nation should be under our control. He put that forward in a very genuine way. Since that time the concept that Australians should control the destiny and the natural resources of their own nation - I will not say that it has caught fire because I believe that in the hearts of most of our countrymen there has been a feeling that we should retain some semblance of independence - has created a tremendous response across the nation, indicating the desire of ordinary Australians and their children to have a continuing stake in their own country. That is not an unreasonable request, one might say. Against the back? ground of the alienation of our own resources it is perhaps a most significant one in 1971. 
My honourable friend asked whether this relates to the Simpson Desert. The Simpson Desert might have been the initial query but the Simpson Desert is not the story of this particular concern. In Western Australia we have seen 12 million acres alienated to overseas control in a very short space of time. We have seen 60 per cent of the Top End of the Northern Territory alienated in a very short space of time. We have seen the same situation in Cape York. In my electorate of Riverina we have seen the alienation of basic resources. So there is a big concern among the ordinary men and women and the children of our community to see that we retain some control over our own resources. I thought that the national Parliament would be interested to know just how deep and widespread that interest is. In the very short time that this matter has come under notice in this way there has been an extraordinary response which can be testified to not only by myself but also by the honourable member for Capricornia. May I say also that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has indicated already that he has had from 600 Australians expressions of their opinion about what should happen to the assets of our country. These are 600 ordinary people who have been in touch with the Minister for the Interior. In my own case, 1 am able to place on record expressions from nearly 400 people who have come forward with donations of cash. I have had considerable assistance in this matter because, although the facilities for members of this distinguished assembly are scarcely adequate, my good room colleague, the honourable member foi Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  has helped me to wade through the large amount of correspondence on the subject. I pay tribute to him for his spontaneous assistance. 
Let me tell honourable members something about these letters. The first one to which I refer offered $1,000, spontaneously, for no reason of profit - mark that,  Mr Speaker;  no profit - but just so that we may preserve some of our heritage. In terms of overall commitments there is $10,000 in cash and pledges. There has been a tremendous response. As my friend the honourable member for Robertson says, is it not interesting to consider who has responded? I want this Parliament, the supreme forum of the nation, to know that a distinguished Anglican chaplain wrote: 
From my impoverished lot, here is my humble contribution for 4 acres of the nation. 
I am touched by this offer. Obviously I shall not name him, but if honourable members are interested in seeing the correspondence I shall make it available. Another letter was from a migrant who wrote:  1 pledge $1,000. I only want to be part of an effort to preserve Australia for our own people and the sons and daughters that will follow us. 
Another letter is from a school youngster who wrote: 
I would buy five acres and my brother four. We are only 11 and 8, but our father and mother, I am sure, would do better. 
I have never known a greater example of national sentiment than has been shown in the last few days. I say this not because this correspondence comes from the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party or even the Country Party; it comes from my constituents and those of other honourable members here. It is a genuine upsurge of national sentiment which impresses me and -which has convinced me of one thing that the nation is not yet dead; it still lives. I hope that we will be able to give some answer to this feeling that there should be a stake for all of us in our own country for all the years to come. Long after midnight on this night I want to place this on record in the House of Representatives. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What were the (a) quantities, (b) values and (c) countries of origin of apple pulp, cider and juice apples, imported into Australia during each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What action has his Department taken on the finding of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts of 17th September 1969 concerning the irregular appointment of 2 agencies for its promotional advertising activities overseas. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he confer urgently with the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture with the object of providing all possible Commonwealth assistance in containing the threatened locust plague in south west New South Wales. 
What form of assistance could be made available by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry,  upon  notice: 
What was the commercial butter producttion (not cheese) in each State in 1969-70. 
What was the (a) consumption of commercial butter in and (b) export of commercial butter from each State in 1969-70. 
What was the butterfat production including commercial butter and butterfat used in manufacturing products, but excluding cheese in each State in 1969-70. 
What was the (a) consumption of butterfat in and (b) export of butterfat from each State in 1969-70. 
What sums were paid to equalisation from each State for (a) commercial butter and. (b) butterfat including commercial butter and butterfat used in manufacturing products, but excluding cheese (i) consumed in Australia and (ii) exported from Australia in 1969-70. 
What was the actual average return per pound of butterfat for anhydrous fat and ghee supplied to SouthEast Asia re-constitution plants in 1969-70. 
What was the amount of butterfat supplied to these plants in 1969-70. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of (a) poultry meat processing and (b) egg production is now in the hands of companies incorporated overseas. 
Will he consider taking urgent action to prevent takeovers of family enterprises by overseas based or financed groups. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, 1. rise to take the opportunity afforded by the consideration of the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry particularly to draw urgent attention to a most serious situation which has developed in the canning fruit industry in New South Wales. I notice that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  who is also the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  is at the table for this debate. I ask him particularly to note the facts which I am presenting because these are facts that I have been asked to bring to the attention of the Committee and the Government at this stage by the growers' organisations and the co-operatives concerned. 
The situation is summed up in an urgent telegram that I have just received from the General Manager of the Griffith Co-Operative Cannery Ltd,  Mr Stan  Polkinghorne. The telegram states: 
Delay in decision by State and Federal Governments on Griffith Co-Operative Canneries application for financial assistance causing stone and pome fruit growers severe hardship some growers relying entirely on stone fruit for income have received no payment at all for fruit delivered in 1970-71 season. Now preparing for 1971-72 season and require finance immediately. 
Request you take strongest possible action to ensure matter brought before both authorities as matter of extreme urgency. Further delay will mean impossible for cannery to process growers fruit in coming season. 
The cannery in fact faces closure. The seriousness of this happening is illustrated by the fact that unemployment in Griffith, probably one of the most prosperous towns in the Australian countryside in normal times, has increased by 40 per cent in the past year. The Griffith Co-Operative Cannery Ltd last season gave employment to 180 women, that is, 3 shifts of 60 women each. It gave additional employment to 15 males and to administrative staff. For this cannery to close would be a disaster for the growers, the employees and the entire community. The growers, 1 stress, have received nothing for the fruit. This is fruit that has been harvested and processed already. Some of it, I have no doubt, has been sold or earmarked for future sale. But the growers have received nothing at all for peaches, nothing for pears, and only 2 growers who made tomato deliveries have been paid for those tomatoes. The only payments that have been made at all in this season have been one-third of the money owing to apricot growers. 
The cannery faces closure and the growers face bankruptcy. The banks have said in some cases: 'We will not advance any more money'. That means that the growers are not able to get essential advances to enable them to carry on their farm opera tions. In fact, this situation brings us tac to face with a major economic disaster. This is not all of the problem. There are approximately 600 canning fruit growers in New South Wales, about 2,000 people on the farms with their families and about 10,000 people who depend upon them. The Leeton Co-operative Cannery is 3 months behind with payments to growers. This means that a total of $226,000 is owing to growers at this time. They need the money; the community needs the money. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  - I am pleased to see him in the chamber for this discussion - introduced on 9th September the New South Wales Grant (Leeton Co-operative Cannery Limited) Bill. Representations have been made to the Minister by me on behalf of growers' organisations and co-operatives urging that help to be extended. The Minister replied: We have introduced this Bill and, under the grant, the Federal Government will make $.8m available, that sum to be matched by the State'. The inquiries that I have made indicate that it is suggested - I am not sure by whom; it could well be that this is a State decision - that the money which is being anxiously awaited by the cannery and the growers is likely to be taken back almost immediately by the 2 Governments concerned. It is suggested that the Commonwealth 'will take money to finalise its claims and the State will take the remainder to satisfy its old debts, and the cannery will be left exactly as before except that interest payments will be reduced to some extent. 
The urgency is to keep the suppliers in business. The producers are basically the people on whom the entire superstructure of the industry depends. I hope that this in fact will not be an empty gesture or a mere book entry. But I ask the Minister for Primary Industry to confer urgently with his opposite number in New South Wales to prevent the closure of the Griffith Co-Operative Cannery Limited and to end the confusion over what will happen to the $1.6m for Leeton. I stress to the Committee that these are not abstract matters. They touch on the lives of people and the prosperity of whole towns. 1 do not know whether in fact the Minister for Primary Industry has felt it necessary to take any initiative in relation to the disposal of the money. I say that quite frankly in ' an atmosphere of probing for information and seeking help. I will make available immediately to the Minister the latest material that has come to hand. I appeal to him again as a matter of urgency to confer with his opposite number in New South to ensure that this cannery does not close. It would be a major economic disaster. I wanted to raise this matter with the Minister and with the Committee and to draw to the attention of the Committee the great need that exists at the moment. 
In the minutes remaining I wish to turn from this matter to the wheat situation at the present time. It is a matter of sadness among people who are anxious to see the wheat industry remain stable that an increasing amount of trade still continues outside the Australian Wheat Board. I wanted to draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to an apparent discrepancy, which I feel should be cleared up, in the wheat situation in Australia. As honourable members know, the first quota that was set was with respect to the 1968- 69 season. That quota does not appear to have been reached. At page 3 of the Wheat Situation', published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in February 1971, chapter II dealing with The Situation in Australia' states that wheat production for 1968-69 was 543.95 million bushels. Turning to page 5 of the same publication, we read: 
Receivals of wheat by the Australian Wheat Board from the 1969-70 crop were 357.9 million bushels, 31 per cent lower than the 1968-69 record of 515.6 million bushels. 
The 1968-69 figure is the record figure. The reference here is an interesting one because a discrepancy of nearly 30 million bushels appears between the 2 figures. I am wondering whether this figure represents the extent of trading outside the Board, the trading that has been described as black market trading. 
Again, the situation is that we did not reach the national quota for 1968-69. The national quotas for 1969-70 and 1970-71 also have not been reached. The quota this financial year will not be reached. We have a situation where the crops either have not been planted or have been blasted by dry conditions. A great deal of concern is felt that, if an early announcement is not made by all concerned, all of the wheat which is likely to be harvested and is likely to sur vive will be taken in and paid for, and then a direct fillip will be given to interstate trading, black market trading or whatever term may be used to describe- it. 
The need for the Minister to take the initiative with his State colleagues in this matter at this stage is urgent. He should say: 'We have an assessment, we know that we will not be reaching^ the targets and quotas and it will be desirable that all wheat that is produced is delivered'. If that announcement is made I suggest that it will end a lot of the trading which is presently going on. Nobody really wishes to trade outside the established stable system, but when a bank manager says 'You will take what you can get and be sure of it' a grower has no choice. I commend this matter also to the examination of the Minister and the Committee and ask for an early announcement in accordance with the realities of the present situation. Before I resume my seat I make again a sincere appeal to the Minister for Primary Industry to look urgently at the possible situation which we are facing at this time in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area. 
I am glad to take what I think will possibly be the final opportunity- 
Just a moment.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I hope it is not suggested that I have breached any agreement. I have risen in my place as is my right. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order!  1  advise the Committee that one  speaker  from the Government side of the House - the Minister for Trade and Industry - having spoken, the next  speaker  if one rose would need to be from the Opposition side. Despite the fact that the honourable member for Riverina has already spoken, no other honourable member rose I have given him the call. 
-- I am very happy to defer-- 
 1  just want to take up one point. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I think I have no alternative, the Minister for Trade and Industry having spoken, but to call a member from the Opposition side. The honourable member for Riverina rose in his place. I call the honourable member for Riverina. 
I appreciate the courtesy of the Chair and the co-operation of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I will follow the example of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and will tailor my remarks. I had hoped to deal with the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry in great detail but I will defer my remarks until another occasion. However, I do want to draw attention to the fact that this House has not had an adequate opportunity to debate some of the great trade matters which are now occupying the attention of most countries. 1 particularly wanted to draw attention to the fact that the Minister for Trade and Industry had not given the opportunity to the House to tackle some of the matters which had been raised and which had not been properly debated. One statement still on the notice paper goes back to 28th October 1970. This was a most important statement on the United Kingdom levies on imports of agricultural commodities. A ministerial statement was made by  Sir John  McEwen, who is now retired.  His  statement is still on the notice paper and he is not likely to be able to deal further with it at this stage of his career. Nevertheless, we have not had an opportunity to debate the matter of these agricultural bounties. I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry a question in the House , on 1 6th February 1971 in relation to trade with the United Kingdom. I asked: 
What action has been taken to renegotiate the Anglo-Australian trade preferences following the British Government's action in imposing import levies on a range of Australian primary products? Will the Minister tell the House what steps, if any, have been taken to adjust the present pattern of Anglo-Australian trade, with the balance now running at about $350m a year against us? If no action has been taken, will the Minister now act urgently to renegotiate our generous preferences in trade, shipping, banking and insurance in order to prevent disaster to Australian industries, people and towns if Britain enters the European Common Market and further discriminates against our canned  fruits,  fresh and dried fruits and cereals. 
I will read out the Minister's reply, omitting the reference to my newly found interest which, I am afraid, was perhaps a mistake on the Minister's part. What concerns me is the purport of the reply to this Parliament. He said:   . . The United Kingdom-Australia Trade Agreement has been renewed on a 6-mon.thIy basis each year since 1957. In the light of the circumstances that are arising, the whole situation will have to be reviewed. But for the moment the Agreement will continue to operate under the existing arrangements. 
That was all the information given to the Parliament. In a New South Wales local newspaper in March 1971 1 found that the Minister had given information which was entirely different from that which I have just read. The newspaper reported the Minister of having said: 
Australia has secured the right to take compensating action to th extent necessary to restore the balance of advantages in the trade agreement with Britain as it existed prior to the introduction of the levy scheme, scheduled for 1st July. 
It also quoted the Minister as having said: 
The imposition of levies would run counter to the British obligation under the United KingdomAustralia Trade Agreement to grant duty-free entry for Australian products. . . . 
The Minister is then reported to have said that there would be an exchange of letters with the British High Commissioner in Canberra. The newspaper then quotes the Minister as having said: 
The substance of these letters will be that in return for Australia waiving its rights under the Trade Agreement, the British Government will be prepared to waive its rights under the Trade Agreement to take measures to restore the balance of advantages under the Trade Agreement as it existed immediately prior to the introduction of the levy schemes. 
That may have been a proper procedure but I want to know why on 16th February the House was denied the information that was given, apparently quite freely and in considerable detail, 4 weeks later to a newspaper which, I am sure, was glad to have it. What I resent is that the Parliament has not had an opportunity to debate in depth and in detail vital trade matters at this time. The 2 statements of the former Minister for Trade and Industry have gone undebated as has the present Minister's statement made on his return from his toolate too-little trip overseas, and also the details given in reply to the question I asked. I will leave it at that at this time because 1 have given an undertaking that I would take only 5 minutes and 5 minutes have elapsed. I think it is important to raise the matter in relation to estimates involving the expenditure of $40m. I put it to the Minister that it is time this Parliament had an opportunity to debate in detail the matters which are exercising the minds of all of us. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
In connection with the proposal for an additional airport for Sydney, has the Minister's attention been drawn to the view that a consideration of the interests of the people of Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong exclusively, and not those of all the people of New South Wales, should be the determining factor in this matter. 
Does the Government support such a basis for a decision; if not, will the Minister on behalf of the Government repudiate a view which can cause offence to the people of New South Wales who live outside the cities mentioned. 
-I present the following petition  from  citizens  of  the Riverina: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
Thatthe provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales has already exhausted its funds for this year and has heavily committed itself ahead for primary reconstruction purposes since the Commonwealth legislation was introduced just a few months ago? Have the Minister and his Department received repeated requests to clarify whether he and the Commonwealth Government desire a liberal interpretation of the requirement that applicants should have 'reasonable prospects for success'? If so, will the Minister, firstly, tell the House whether or not he wants a tough policy administered in relation to applicants, and secondly, what steps he is prepared to take to stop rural reconstruction degenerating to a mere lottery because of a chronic lack of funds? 
I want to raise a matter on the debate for the adjournment of the House tonight that was broached at question time today. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave a very correct reply in terms of the actual situation in regard to finance but not the actual situation as far as the real position is concerned in regard to rural reconstruction applications. It might be remembered that I had asked whether the Minister was aware of the present situation where the first year's allocation had been spent and the Rural Reconstruction Board of New South Wales had gone on to take up most of the second year's allocation. In his reply the Minister quite correctly said: Yes, but there are still funds available under the Commonwealth legislation for use in New South Wales.' That was quite right, but of course the Minister was referring to the fact that the funds that are presently available are funds for build-up. 
The actual situation is that applications are coming in to the Rural Reconstruction Board of New South Wales at the rate of about 300 a month for reconstruction but at the rate of only 8 a month for actual build-up. The 300 applications are related to debt adjustment and carry-on. This is a situation that was actually foreshadowed by most of the farmer organisations. They had recognised that the terms of the buildup section of the rural reconstruction scheme were quite unreal. In fact, they provide for an interest rate which is roughly 3 times the interest rate that applied over the previous 30 years in New South Wales. The interest rate was multiplied 3 times and the spread of time for repayment was reduced. In fact, it means that an applicant at present for a build-up area under the rural reconstruction scheme initiated in this chamber and now applying in New South Wales has to show a return of 9 or 10 per cent on capital to be eligible. This precludes almost all the applicants from taking part in any build-up scheme at all; and this is recognised, because as soon as they make an inquiry they are told what the conditions are and they know they just could not comply with them. They are in fact unreal and the basis of their lack of reality is the Commonwealth's insistence on a very high interest charge to be paid by the States. 
The Commonwealth has said to the States that they have to pay this rate under the Act that it has passed or they can not have the funds. So the States are captives of the Commonwealth in this matter and the farmer is suffering. I mentioned the situation in my question in general terms but  Mr R.  E. Gates, the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Rural Reconstruction Board, indicated that in August he had already had 2,400 applications and that by the end of July the Board had approved loans of nearly $4.5m to 178 farms. He said that the $4m allocated for 1970-71 had been spent and that the allocation of 34m for 1971-72 would be spent well before the end of that period. The money has gone. I am referring to the money for debt adjustment and to carry on. The money has already been used but the flood of applications is tremendous. The amount of servicing that can be done by the Board is limited. It is constrained by the limitation of finance. 
What has happened in the other section? It is true that there is for farm build-up an unused sum of money which the Common wealth has said must be earmarked for that particular purpose. It shows that the inherent weaknesses in the scheme have become apparent in a very short space of time. These weaknesses were foreseen by farmers' organisations and other rural bodies right across the nation. They were anticipated by the States, which expressed concern. The Victorian Minister went further than indicating concern. Victoria simply said that the scheme is a disaster. 
Without using too many adjectives I will say that there is a tremendous queue of applicants for reconstruction finance who cannot be properly treated. There is no such thing as reconstruction consideration at present because the Board does not have the money. This situation applies in every State, not only in New South Wales. Perhaps it is even worse in the central west region of Queensland where half the population in some areas has just gone. They may still be on the roll. 
The honourable member says that that is a slight exaggeration, but a few minutes before I came into the chamber I talked to one of his former constituents who is now running a kiosk in Sydney because he just could not carry on. 
I did not hear that interjection but I would be quite happy for it to go on the record. The honourable member should show a little concern for the people in trouble at the moment. 
I have not seen any evidence of it. If the honourable member has any real concern he should get up during the debates and express it. 
I support the amendment moved by the honour able member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I should like to refer briefly to the general points made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who has just resumed his seat. First, he seemed to be saying throughout most of his address that he doubted very much whether acquisition was the answer to the wool growers' problems. He questioned acquisition as an approach. Well, the Opposition has made its decision and it is up to the honourable member to make his decision. I was also surprised that he should interpret what was said by Opposition members, including the honourable member for Dawson, as in some way questioning the need to assist substantial wool growers. By substantial, I mean wool growers with substantial holdings and substantial numbers of sheep. This was not the basis of our approach. 
The Opposition has a very simple approach to this problem. "We say that the taxpayers' money should not be used, for example, to add to the profits of overseas corporations which in the last 12 months have shown a net profit of $12m and a 14 per cent return on capital. We maintain that there is no need to do this. Yet, in effect, the honourable member for Wakefield said: 'Well, you cannot do anything else because it is not possible to have a needs basis for any programme'. This is extraordinary because only yesterday the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  introduced a new needs policy relating to schools. So, it seems that it can be done but that there is a lack of will to do it. However, I am not particularly concerned about what T regard as minor objections. I am concerned at the fact that this legislation has been introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  as part of a complex of measures to help and to rescue the stricken countryside. For the third time in 24 hours I refer to the fact that the rural reconstruction scheme is stalled in New South Wales. 
The Minister for Primary Industry says: 'That is a lot of nonsense'. I refer him to the Liberal Minister for Lands in New South Wales who administers the scheme and who yesterday spoke about the rural reconstruction scheme in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly. A Press report of his speech states; 
The State Government would not be able to give more financial aid to farmers under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme unless the Federal Government provided more funds by the end of the month, the Minister for Lands,  Mr Lewis,  said yesterday. 
I challenge the Minister for Primary Industry to return to the chamber. The Press article continued: 
He had already sent a telegram to the Minister for Primary Industry saying he felt the proportion of money for financial reconstruction was running out but this had failed to bring an increase in the allocation. 
I intend to speak to the Premier later, and ask him to contact the Prime Minister, and I will be contacting the Minister for Primary Industry, to see if it is possible for us to gain additional funds',  Mr Lewis  said. 
The response of the Minister for Primary Industry is: 'That is a lot of nonsense'. You take that story to the New South Wales Minister and his Government and answer them. 
You did? 
I desire to put to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  2 queries which have already been raised in the countryside. They relate to the formula and to possible delays in payments. In the first instance, as the Minister pointed out in answer to queries posed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  this is an emergency grant and is therefore different from long-term stabilisation schemes. The Minister said that this is an emergency grant for only one year and I take the point that he has made and will consider it in that light. Part III of the Bill contains the formula whereby the deficiency payments will be made. As I have understood this in discussion with my colleagues and with those who have examined the formula, it will mean, in effect, that the lower the actual return from auction or priate sale, the less that will be received by way of deficiency payment. 
I should like to ask the Minister whether, in fact, there was another approach or a series of approaches tried in this regard or whether this was determined to be the best way to proceed, as a matter of policy. I see that the Minister is puzzled. I shall try to make myself clear. The formula which is now proposed - I am posing this as a question - appears to mean that the less a person receives either at auction or by private sale, the more he will receive for deficiency payments. The more that a person actually receives at either auction or private sale, the more he will receive for deficiency payments under this legislation. At this stage, I am asking whether this was a matter of policy. 
It was a matter of policy? 
Did the Minister try any other approaches? 
Perhaps the Minister can be given an opportunity later to outline some of those approaches, because the question that arises is: Why adopt this formula? If it is designed as an emergency scheme for one year only to meet the need where it is greatest, it does not seem to do that. The best and fairest thing for me to do is to ask the Minister: 'What did you try and why were the other formulas rejected?' I pose this as a question to give the Minister an opportunity to answer queries which have been asked already. 
My second query to the Minister is: What is the anticpated delay in the wool grower receiving the deficiency payment? Obviously, there will be 2 time factors. There will be a time factor related to wool sold at auction or through a wool broker and there will be a time factor related to private sales. I should like the Minister to indicate what the time factor is likely to be in both cases because I think that all honourable members have recognised that there is an urgency about getting money to the wool growers. This question has been raised and I hope that the Minister will be able to give the Committee some guidance in relation to the application and operation of the formula. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the percentages of settlers in the forty-nine national categories, listed in the Return for the year 1969-70 under the Citizenship Act, who have applied for and been granted Australian citizenship by naturalisation and registration during the years of the post-war migration programme. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the date of the establishment of the inter-departmental committee formed for the purpose of ensuring and maintaining close and effective liaison between the departments and authorities concerned with the quality of waterways in the A.C.T. 
Which departments are represented on the Committee. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Have projections been made of Canberra's population growth in the next 20 years; if so, what are the projections. 
Has his Department completed a study of the water resources and supply for the Australian Capital Territory covering the period; if so, will he make the study available. 
Will he ensure that any decisions on water supply will take into account the existing commitments and future needs of communities along the Murrumbidgee River. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Will he release the findings of the subcommittee, referred to in the annual report of the River Murray Commission, which was established to inquire into the extent and cost of the work required to make the channel of the River Murray suitable for carrying regulated flows between the Hume Dam and Yarrawonga. 
Will he examine the situation which existed in the River Murray in March 1970 when the River ran bank-full at 10,000 cusecs for 2 weeks. 
Can he say whether this situation would interfere with the anticipated operations of Dartmouth to help peak irrigation demands. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the course of a reply to a question the Minister for Primary Industry said that members of the Opposition in a debate on the wool subsidy scheme had opposed assistance to studs. 
Yes, to merino studs particularly. In the course of my submission to the House on that occasion I made a specific appeal for the continuation of private merino studs, and this was rejected. To suggest that members of the Opposition - and I was the second speaker on that occasion - had done otherwise is completely wrong and the Minister should apologise. 
No more important piece of legislation than this Bill has come before us recently, not because the legislation itself has any great purport but because of the implications of the banking system for the whole of Australia. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who just resumed his seat, made a very unconvincing defence of foreign investment in, and foreign exploitation of, Australia. He could perhaps have informed himself of the profitability of General Motors-Holden's Ltd. It is interesting to note that Professor C. P. Kindleberger analysed the profitability of GMH and came up with the fact that that company has earned on its original investment 560 per cent. In fact, there was such a great outcry in the 1950s about the high level of profitability that GMH decided that it had better buy out the Australians who remained, or the small group which was associated with the company. GMH did buy them out. It transformed itself into a private company and now is under no obligation to publish its accounts. I do not know whether the honourable member and the Government as a whole defend that situation but we on this side of the House do not. 
It is 34 years since we had a royal commission into banking in our country and I make a plea this afternoon that members on all sides of the Parliament consider the need for a further royal commission into banking. I would hope that if such a royal commission were established one of its members might be the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who seems to be completely at sea about legislation governing banking and his own responsibility in it. The Prime Minister indicated in this House on 30th September that the Government, for example, had no right to dictate to the Reserve Bank of Australia how it should act. In fact, he said it would be either imprudent or impudent - I was not sure of which from his diction - of the Government to attempt to do so. 
Apparently it escaped his attention that, under section 11 of the Reserve Bank Act, the Federal Executive Council may, by order, determine the policy to be adopted by the bank. So, I suggest that this is a good time in the history of the country to examine the whole ramifications of bank ing. As my good friends, the honourable members for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  pointed out, while we welcome this Bill, it is a mere token. Something better and more effective should be done. 
The honourable member who has just resumed his seat apparently did not listen to his successor as Treasurer when he said that the whole purpose of the Bill 'was to ensure that the Commonwealth has adequate power to control the acquisition by local or overseas interests of large shareholdings in banks incorporated in Australia'. We are looking at overseas control of banking, but we have an incredible situation in our country; we have a closed shop in banking. It is not possible for somebody to come in and open a bank and charge the normal interest rates prevailing at the time, but it is possible for a foreign interest to come in and buy a hire purchase company and charge anything up to 24 per cent and, in some cases, even 36 per cent. According to the Government, this is perfectly logical and right. 
As my honourable friend says, as a result of the present policy thousands of Australians are now being charged excessive interest rates. Each week, in fact,  Mrs Australia  in every town and city in the nation is being misled. She is being given wrong or inadequate information as to what she will be paying in interest. In some instances, salesmen have made their ploy based on effective interest rates of 36.4 per cent. Customers are being bamboozled. It is common knowledge and factual that some goods are being sold at an effective interest rate of 24.4 per cent. One also finds that cars are being peddled, particularly to young people, at an effective interest of 36 per cent. Australia is third in the world in relation to hire purchase debts. In fact, we owe SI 75 a head. In comparison, the British owe $50 a head and most Europeans owe $40 or $50 a head. The interesting thing is that we do not owe this money to companies that are substantially under our own control but we are in hock to overseas interest to this extent. Again, it might be said 'How did we get to this stage of financial bondage?' The policy of the Government has led us very clearly to exactly that position. 
This Bill purports to exercise some control, but let us see what the Bill does in relation to the major foreign banking house that we already have in this country. Let us examine the scope of the Bill, following along the very good and sound remarks of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, as it relates to the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The object of this Bill, as stated by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his second reading speech, is to provide a method of exercising control over the possession by local or overseas interests of substantial interests in shares in banks incorporated in Australia. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd is incorporated in England. The Bill does not provide a method whereby the Commonwealth Government can exercise effective control over the ownership of this bank. The fact that the ANZ banking group is incorporated in England constitutes a significant weakness in the coverage of the legislation. In fact, the Bill provides support for the Government's policy only in respect of banks incorporated in Australia, and not of all existing banks. 
Let us have a look at the importance of this group. In May 1971, the ANZ banking group held 19.8 per cent of the total deposits held by all trading banks. This amounted to $1,47 6m. The Australia and New Zealand Savings Bank Ltd held 9.3 per cent or $70 lm of depositors' balances with all savings banks. On the basis of total deposits held, the ANZ banking group is the third largest trading bank :n Australia. It follows the Bank of New South Wales and the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia. It is evident that the ANZ banking group is one of the most important of the existing banks referred to in the legislation, yet it is beyond the scope of the present Bill for the Government to exercise effective control over the ownership of this bank. Who owns it? The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith posed this question. The facts are that the vast majority of shares in the ANZ banking group are held by residents of the United Kingdom. The proportion held by Australians is less than 10 per cent and a small proportion is probably held in New Zealand. So, there is a situation in which the third largest sector of the banking industry is just not covered by a Bill that has been brought into this Parliament and which purports to do something that in fact it cannot do. I suggest that the Minister representing the Treasurer or the Treasurer himself should address himself to this great inadequacy. 
I hope that you will. I referred earlier in my remarks to the fact that it is possible for any foreign interest to come into Australia and go into the money business, provided that it does rot go into what is known as the traditional banking business. It has been the policy of the Commonwealth Government since 1945 not to grant overseas interests authority to carry on banking business in Australia, but in other sectors of the capital market, such as finance companies, which I have mentioned, and merchant banking institutions, mentioned by my colleague from Kingsford-Smith, there has been substantial foreign investment and I think the House should take particular note of what has happened in this field. 
A very comprehensive analysis of foreign investment in the non-bank sector of the capital market has been made by  Mr M.  W. Acheson, the  deputy  representative of the Bankers Trust Company of New York. I name my authority in case honourable members opposite felt that it came from one of our erudite Australian Labor Party committees and, therefore, might be a little biased.  His  main findings from the survey can be summarised in this way: In the past 2 or 3 years, the flood of foreign banks into Australia has constituted a veritable invasion. Ninety-five foreign banking institutions have started banking in Australia. Twelve have only representative offices, another 27 have representative offices plus an equity participation in one or more local financial institutions and the 83 foreign banks with local investments have a total of 102 investments in 52 separate financial institutions. More than 60 per cent of the merchant banks and other financial institutions in which there are overseas interests have a local equity content equal to or greater than 50 per cent. 
The rate of foreign investment in this sector of the capital market perhaps could slow down because they have already picked the plums. But let us be quite clear; the invasion has been strong and definite and it is now an influence which could well be inimical to our own independent economy. The changing structure of the capital market in relation to the increase in assets should be noted. It will be found that the increase in assets of financial institutions between 1960 and 1969 amounted to 121 per cent. When one considers the trading banks, it will be found that their assets have increased by 88 per cent, while instalment finance companies have increased their assets by 155 per cent. The assets of development finance companies have increased tenfold in that period. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
Returning to what I was saying before the suspension of the sitting, it is evident that finance companies and merchant banks - development finance companies - have expanded at a faster rate than the capital market as a whole, and in particular the banks. It is likely that more recent statistics will reveal a further substantial expansion in these 2 sectors, especially in the merchant banks. I stressed earlier that there had been a big inflow of money and a rapid expansion of these merchant banks and an increasing importance of foreign banks generally. There has been - and rightly so - further calls from honourable members on this side for direct control of non-bank financial institutions. The comments of  Dr Harold  Bell, economic adviser to the Australian Mutual Providend Society, are quite pertinent in this regard. He said: 
Although Australia has not traditionally been in the international circuit of flows of 'hot money', our money and capital markets have become increasingly well known to foreign investors and it seems likely that at least some of the currently heavy influx of overseas funds may be of a shortterm or speculative type. As foreign banking and investment groups establish here so, too, is the element of short-term capital inflow likely to be encouraged. 
This is added reason why there is a case for looking again at the definition of banking business and the exercise of some closer oversight of those banking type institutions not at present covered by the banking legislation. 
That is a responsible comment by an important economic voice in our community. I repeat the plea that I made before dinner for a further royal commission into all aspects of banking, fringe banking and associated financial institutions. In the 34 years since the last royal commission the entire financial structure has changed. It can be truly said these days that the only people who care about Australia and those who live here are the people themselves. They are speaking more eloquently than ever before and they are asking questions that the Government has a duty to answer. It has been suggested that the control which is necessary over the ANZ banking group - to which I referred earlier - is adequate under another Act. I understand that the Minister will spell out the Government's position and attitude on this. But this does not and cannot justify a position where there is a closed shop in Australia for one section of money business and a completely open door for all others. 
I repeat: What possible justification in sense or community interest can there be in a system which allows a foreign bank to buy up a hire purchase firm and to charge effective interest rates of over 20 per cent while denying the same bank the opportunity to operate at the normal rate of interest? What kind of philosophy is this? What is the justification for it? Why have the Australian people been allowed to go into pawn to moneylenders outside the country at rates which they failed to appreciate in the first instance? It is time that we brought the Australian economy back home to serve the people here. It is time that we followed the example of our Canadian cousins and the recommendations of the Canadian House of Commons Committee on External Affairs which stated that Canadians should control at least 51 per cent of Canadian companies, whether in the financial or in the development sphere. 
The inflow of hot money into Australia has brought with it the inflation with which the Government says it is concerned. The Budget figures tell their own story. More than $ 1,000m has been used to build city skyscrapers, city blocks with luxury offices, but only $300m has been used for the construction of new factories. This is a misapplication of resources on a tremendous scale. Part of this misapplication is assisted by the inflow of hot money - beyond the Government's ken or care. For some years now the message has been clear. Speculative money coming into Australia has distorted the economy and it has been a major factor in our inflation. It has tied us more securely than ever before to the multi-national managements which make the decisions on the maximisation of global profits and not the community good or the national advancement. The royal commission on Canada's economic prospects, set up in 19S5, pinpointed the essential dilemma. This is what that commission found:   . . instalment finance companies' policies in times of inflationary pressures may be directly opposite to those which the central bank is trying to promote through the operations of the commercial banks. 
How much more impossible can the situation become when the companies are controlled outside this nation and are beyond the scope of any existing legislation? This is the position at the present time. France, Britain and Japan control very strictly foreign inflow and foreign speculation in relation to their own economies. At a time when these developed nations and others are probing the ramifications of the multinational corporation and trying to understand them we in Australia, either in this Parliament or outside it, have not paid sufficient attention to this matter. We have not even attempted to understand the ramifications of multi-national corporations. Yet we have a situation where our own standards of living have slipped and where control of the economy has slipped and is slipping further away from us. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has left Australia tonight on a trip overseas. The questions being asked in every part of Australia are: 'Has he gone to sell another bit of the country? Has he gone to sell another bit of the farm or another bit of the mine?' 
'What nonsense', the honourable member says. I might say that that is the essential question at this time. What has he gone for? Why has he gone? What is he going to sell of our national assets? The whole roll call of our economy illustrates how much has already been eroded. If honourable members opposite think that they will have any significance in an economy totally dictated from outside this nation then they are living in the world of Alice in Wonderland. When they come out of the rabbit burrow in which they now live they will find that it is too late to make any effective contribution at all. This Bill is a token and nothing more. It leaves intact the policy which is selling out our country and our people's future. It is being done daily. I submit to the Parliament that we should at least follow Canada, even now, and set up a royal commission which will give us the facts before we are placed in a position where we will have to write to London, to New York or to Tokyo to find out what we might be able to do or what we may be able to plan for the future of this nation. The control of money resources is the key to the advancement of this country. 
At the beginning of my remarks on this Bill I drew attention to the exploitation of the average man and woman in Australia who buys on hire purchase. If supporters of the Government wish to defend this situation then let it be on their own heads. The effective interest rates which apply are hidden from the purchaser at the time of the purchase. This is not just an abstract matter for the economists or even for parliamentary committees. This is a matter which strikes at the very root of government and the control of the destinies of the nation. I suggest that we have been left behind in our attention to this matter. As we on this side have said, the Government has at least made a token effort in introducing this Bill and as a token we give our support to it. But what we ask for tonight, and what I in particular ask, is that more should be done. We have not even the raw data for future decisions. I appeal to the Government, in its remaining months of office, at least to follow Canada. Let us have the economy brought home as far as is possible. Let us set up a commission to probe the present position and plot the future in the interests of our nation and its future. 
It is my understanding- 
Motion (by  Mr Wentworth)  agreed to: 
That the  question  be now  put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at  12.22  a.m. (Thursday) 
asked the Minister for Prim  ary Industry, upon notice: 
Has research work been carried out in Australia on the combination of butterfat and vegetable oil to produce a new type spread. 
Has the Australian Dairy Produce Board been actively investigating this possibility; if so, have successful combinations been found either at home or abroad. 
Is it the intention of the Government to continue to support butterfat production used for a combined spread. 
The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who has just resumed his seat, has attempted to cover the entire mismanagement of his Government by a series of miserable and rather smelly red herrings. He has attempted deliberately to divide the Australian people by raising a series of matters which are not under debate at all and never have been. The Government's economic policies have created new problems and they are the root cause of this debate. Of course, there is no desire on the part of the Government to discuss its mismanagement of the economy. Rather, the Government would prefer to divide the whole of the Australian community. 
But let us be quite blunt. It has been suggested that on this side of the chamber there is some desire to curtail the immigration scheme which was launched so magnificently a generation ago by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  That immigration scheme has added  2i  million people to our community. These people are no longer migrants. The  2i  million people who have come here are an integral part of the Australian scene. What is more, they have as much feeling for this nation as has anyone who came here previously, who was born here or whose grandparents came here. So the 2-i million migrants who have come here since the Second World War are part of us. The attempt to suggest that these people are somehow responsible for the bad government that we have at the moment and are somehow responsible for pollution and all the other problems of the nation is a miserable excuse by the Government for its own mismanagement. The Government is completely wrong in its attitude, and this is why I seconded the amendment moved by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and why the whole of the Opposition is united- 
Government Members - Ha. ha! 
I hear a great amount of laughter from supporters of the Government. They . are laughing about the mismanagement of the economy by a government which has been in office for 22 years. 
This Government has been guilty of introducing unemployment of unprecedented levels. 
The Government has brought the migration scheme into question by the fact that it has no policy and this will lead perhaps to 125,000 people being unemployed. Migration and unemployment are incompatible and honourable members opposite In their dying days in office know it. They seek, in their misery, to attempt only to divide the nation in order to cover their own sins of omission and commission. Honourable members opposite are now giving the best imitation I have ever heard of a tribal rock musical. But what they do does not really matter because the facts of the situation are that they have placed the migration programme in jeopardy by their economic policies. What we have said, what we say tonight, what we have said consistently, what the honourable member for Grayndler has said so eloquently and so well is that in government next year we will determine the level of migration commensurate with the greatest good of the people of the nation. We will determine what will be done for the greatest good of those who have come and those who were born here. This is our policy. It is the policy which was enunciated particularly well tonight by the honourable member for Grayndler. 
In these days when it is fashionable to blame migrants for every ill in the community, it might be just as well to place on record that if Australia ever closes its door to migrants we will indulge in cultural incest and nothing but decadence will result. We are a migrant people. In the past this has been the case; we are now a migrant people; and we will forever be so. If people such as the Minister for Housing - or the Minister for no Housing - who has just resumed his seat, wish to close the doors and shut us off from the world, then more poverty to them and their views. There is a proper questioning in the community about the numbers of migrants coming to this country and about all aspects of a policy that was in fact launched by our Party and has been carried on for a quarter of a century. 
But I want to serve one warning before I deal with 3 specific matters. I want to issue a warning tonight that for a whole generation we have swept beneath the national floor boards the bigots, the racists and the Paislevites. They have been silent and, very properly, denied a forum of support in our nation. If there is any suggestion that they should come from beneath the floor boards, then we resent it and we will oppose it. There is no room in this Parliament for the bigotries and the Pais.leyism which are implicit in some of the questioning that has been going on. We, for our side, are quite unanimous that we will resent such attitudes in our nation. 
I think he is a Conservative member of a parliament. If the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  wishes to indulge in Irish politics 1 suggest that he go to Ireland. Let me address myself to 3 major matters. We have heard suggestions that there are areas of migration from which we have long drawn people that are not really worthy and suitable. In the time available to me I will quote from some of the references made in publications to the effect that we should be very wary about taking people from southern Europe. I might say that it has been an old criticism by the primitives in our society that those who came to us from southern Europe were somehow inferior. This point has been dealt with precisely and specifically. If the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who is interjecting, wishes to be numbered amongst the primitives that is his business. Some pretty precise studies have been made which indicate that perhaps contrary to the views that you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and I may have held, those who have settled, and settled particularly well, in fact have had a standard of living, by definition and investigation, which excelled even that of the Anglo-Saxons, and even that of the northerners. In one particular area surveyed by  Dr Trevor  Langford Smith it was established that the highest standard of living was set by those from Calabria and Sicily. No more southern could you get. 
Give me my time because he is wasting it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
My time is very limited. I have 3 matters to pose and I shall have to do it very quickly. The first of them is this: The Government has been tardy in the extreme in the matter of reuniting families, ft took it 20 years to agree to provide assisted passages to enable a man to bring his wife and children to this country. Some people had to pay 20 per cent interest on borrowed money in order to get their families here. All right, the Government has changed its policy on this matter. It was changed by the Minister's predecessor,  Mr Snedden,  and I give credit for that. But there are still delays of up to a year in reuniting families, there are also delays of nearly a year in issuing visas for people to come and visit their children. 
There are two other scandals I want to mention. One is that there is no reciprocity between ourselves and other nations in relation to social services. Government supporters ask why people do not become naturalised yet the Government penalises them if they do. Thirdly, the Minister for Education in New South Wales, a member of the Country Party, has said that the Commonwealth Government has cut down migrant education facilities. It has cut down the vote for migrant education in such a way as to impose hardships on migrants and children. That has been said and the Government has not answered the criticism. The Government has a great deal to answer for tonight. Let it answer these charges now. 
Answer the charges.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I still have one minute of time left to me. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  says: 'Pathetic'. Let him answer the charges. It is all right for the Minister to sit in this chamber and say it is pathetic. Is it pathetic when I am speaking on behalf of migrants? 
All right,  I  challenge the Minister to answer the charges and accept the challenge. The Minister should be ashamed of himself. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to refer to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  . 2 specific matters. 1 understand the AttorneyGeneral has already been requested to report upon the propriety or otherwise of the activities of  Sir William  Gunn in the promotion of a company to sell parts of northern Australia, particularly in the United States. The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  stated that there had been a report which indicated that Australians would now be able to make application for shares in that company. The question I pose in relation to that matter is: Has the investigation which was to be undertaken by the Attorney-General been completed? If so, when can we have a full report of that investigation? 
I would also like to have, concurrently with that investigation into the activities of  Sir William  Gunn in relation to the disposal of land in northern Australia, the investigation of other matters. I ask the Minister for National Development to ask the Attorney-General to investigate another 2 instances of the disposal of Australian land. I refer particularly to a reference which was made to Australia in a Hong Kong newspaper recently. I have with me a copy of the 'SCM Post' of Hong Kong containing an advertisement which reads in very large type: 
NOW- Australia Land Corp. invites you to invest in big rich resort properly for less than 2cUS per sq ft. 
This is published in the 'SCM Post' of Hong Kong. I have here a cutting from that newspaper. It goes on to read: 
I am asked whether I will table the advertisement. I will hand it to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  so that he may refer it to the Attorney-General as quickly as possible. 
Would the honourable member like me to do that now? At the conclusion of my remarks I shall do just that. Is that satisfactory to the Minister? 
If there is any difficulty about the matter, I ask for permission to incorporate the  2  references in Hansard in toto, 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the report been completed on forward national development planning which has been in continuous preparation by himself and his officers for more than a year (Hansard, 14th October, 1970, page 2189). 
If not, when will the report be completed and examined by the Government. 
What other departments have been involved in the preparation of the report. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether  Sir John  McEwen, as Minister for Trade and Industry, made a statement in the Parliament on 28th October 1970 on United Kingdom levies on imports of Australian agricultural commodities? Was a debate on this statement adjourned and is it still on the notice paper awaiting debate one year later? Did the Acting Prime Minister, while having no detailed information on the subject to give to the Parliament in answer to a question asked by me on 16th February, subsequently make a detailed statement outside the House on negotiations with the British Government? Will the Acting Prime Minister give this Parliament as a matter of urgency the opportunity to debate his statement and those of his predecessor on trade, particularly with the United Kingdom, and the implications for this country of the British decision to enter the European Economic Community, or does he intend to leave Australia's interests, particularly with the EEC countries, to  Mr Heath  and his Government while denying the opportunity to this Parliament to debate in detail and at length this important matter to this nation? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Were any Australian citizens by naturalisation or registration among the 743 persons deported during 1970-71 as listed in 'Migration Facts and Figures' circulated by him in September 1971; if so, what was the reason in each case. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  has done a national service in raising this matter of unemployment, and the only reply that I will make to the attempt by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to denigrate my senior colleague is to say: To qualify for the Commonwealth Ministry it seems necessary, in relation to home affairs, to be blind in one eye, deaf in both ears and addicted to every cliche in the book except, perhaps, 'Please adjust your dress before leaving'. The incredible situation s that the Minister and his colleagues do not seem to understand the situation regarding rural unemployment. They do not seem to be aware of what is happening in human terms. The Minister, in his speech, said yes, there was a rural recession; he admitted that. He also said there was rural unemployment; he admitted that. Then he indicated that all the things that needed to be done had been done. Australia is the only country with a home made rural depression. This depression has brought with it in some areas unemployment as tragic and extensive as that of the great depression a generation ago. The figures by no means tell the full story. While even in some of the most prosperous towns unemployment has risen by 50 per cent in the last year, these figures understate the position because the breadwinner has been driven to the city. 
As this debate has shown, the country's problems today are the city's problems tomorrow. Let no-one make the mistake of thinking that there is no inter-dependence. We have a situation in which the actual number of jobless has risen, in which employment opportunities have contracted dramatically and we have seen the flight of some of our best people. The situation is exemplified in the discovery of those in charge of the war against locusts in western New South Wales. The old law says that the land owner is responsible. In the old days they banded together, pooled their workers and tackled the menace. But today there is no work force. It has all gone. The landholder and his family are holding on often alone. The squeeze on the primary producer carries through the entire community - to the business houses, the service industries and to local government bodies. Even the school hostels have been affected. The parents of youngsters can no longer pay their fees. 
So there has been a general rundown. We have a situation in which young, strong Australians sit in the sun without work while there are roads reminiscent of jungle tracks in the Congo, public utilities which are hangovers from the last century and an absurd policy of paying people an inadequate pittance to do nothing while so much remains to be done. The Government's answer to the farm recession has been the rural reconstruction scheme, which has now broken down, and the wool subsidy scheme, which the Minister for 
Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has abandoned to his colleagues while he disappears overseas in the middle of the parliamentary session and while his own legislation is being debated. Because of the complete breakdown of rural reconstruction in New South Wales and because of the Commonwealth Government's attitude to rural credit there is a drought not only of rain in many areas but of confidence and collateral. 
Let us be clear about the position in relation to the general rural rundown. It stems from this breakdown. There has been an attempt in this House to deny that this has happened. The Minister for Primary Industry attempted to give this Parliament the impression that all was well and that he had dealt with the matter. In fact he even described a submission that I made as nonsense. Let us have a look at the position. On 13th October in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales the Minister for Lands, who is in charge of rural reconstruction, said: 
An approach has already been made to the Commonwealth Government for additional funds for the Commonwealth-State rural reconstruction scheme ... On 14th September by telegram I informed the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry that I felt the proportion of money made available for financial reconstruction was running out . . . New South Wales already has exceeded 50 per cent of the $7,750,000 for reconstruction by about $2m . . . This means that by the end of this month we shall have committed approximately $11,420,000 for rural reconstruction ... I think every honourable member will agree that it would not be possible for us to extend any additional help beyond the end of this month if the Commonwealth does not make additional finance available ... I certainly will be contacting the Minister for Primary Industry again . . . The rate of applications to the Rural Reconstruction Board is about 200 a month, and the expenditure projected for November would be between $1,750,000 and $2m . . . More than 60 per cent of all applications made to the Board are rejected, and yet there is still a demand and a commitment in the months ahead. 
A week later, on 20th October,  Mr Lewis  told the Legislative Assembly that he had exchanged numerous telegrams with the Minister for Primary Industry and added: 
The Premier has informed me he has sent a telegram to the Prime Minister on this matter. 
At that stage he had not received a reply. The Prime Minister is in Washington, dining at the White House. The Minister for Primary Industry is in orbit in Europe. They have left the crisis at home.  Mr 
Lewis then told the New South Wales Parliament that he had received many telegrams from  Mr Sinclair,  but after all the efforts the New South Wales Minister said: 
I am sorry to advise the House and 1 am sorry to tell the farmers of this State who want to apply for rural reconstruction that if nothing happens in the next week or two farmers who do apply for debt reconstruction will have to be informed that unless more money is provided for rural reconstruction, irrespective of whether their applications are sound or not they will not be able to receive assistance. 
So we have a breakdown. The farmer suffers. The countryside suffers. Unemployment grows. But the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has ignored this completely. The Minister for Lands said that he warned the Commonwealth in January that more money would be needed.  His  last words were: 'Even at this late stage I hope the Commonwealth Government will see reason.' This was not a member of the Labor Party. This was not a member of the denigrated Opposition referred to by the Minister for Labour and National Service. This was his colleague in New South Wales who he has ignored. Is he suggesting that his colleagues in New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland are telling lies? Is he suggesting that they are wrong? Is he suggesting that everything has been done, that he is right and they are wrong? Is that the suggestion? What an incredible reply to the debate this morning. 
The Premiers of the various States have indicated their deep concern. I challenge the Ministry to reply to the facts placed before it by its own political counterparts, not from honourable members on this side of the House. 
If the honourable member for Hume wants to turn his back on the countryside and its problems that is his business. The Government has a duty today to consider 3 immediate measures. The first is support for an immediate moratorium for all viable debt adjustment cases. As 95 per cent of the rural debt is held by city based banks and finance companies, this will in no way interfere with local debt holders. The second is an immediate Government guarantee to cover $500m from the banking sector to be made available at a subsidised interest rate of 3 per cent. This means that the Govern ment has to find a mere$1 5m to subsidise the interest rate and has to use its power of guarantee instead of taking money from the tax pool. The third measure is immediate support for a public works programme to be implemented through local authorities to put idle hands to work on jobs that have been waiting to be done for 2 generations. This should be along the lines of the request made by 45 local government representatives in conference at Condobolin in July 1971 - the matter drawn to my attention by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  who has consistently fought for this - and should follow a survey made by the Department of Labour and National Service to indicate the extent of rural unemployment. 
Of course. I have more than 300 - more than there has been in a whole generation in the most prosperous rural community in the nation. Let us see what else was said at this conference. It was resolved, by resolution 17, that it be emphasised to both the Commonwealth and State governments by deputations that the temper of the rural electorate is such that it will not tolerate any of the negation of responsibility and procrastination which has been so evident in the past, and urgent and positive steps are necessary by both governments. So there we have a demand from 45 local government authorities. We have a demand from every State in the Commonwealth. We have a demand from honourable members representing more than half the nation. Yet the reply by the Minister was a string of meaningless cliches which ignore the human realities of the situation. Unemployment is an evil that should not be tolerated in a country which has so much poverty in its public facilities in contrast to the luxury speculation permitted and encouraged by the Government. 
The facts are there. The Minister has been given them before. If he wants to disown his colleagues in every State capital, if he wants to disown the representations of every local government body, that it is his responsibility. But I suggest that he should give up the cliche for once and get down to action. The time for words has passed and the time for actions is now. More than half the nation, rep.sented by honourable members on this side of the Parliament, demands it. 
It has long been my submission that this nation is not spending enough on the development of our water resources. The limiting factor in our development will be water, yet we alone among the nations in the arid zone have a strong and entrenched lobby opposed to water conservation and utilisation. This anti-conservation lobby has concentrated recently on 2 targets. Firstly, it has attacked the continuation of the nation's largest land settlement and irrigation scheme, the Coleambally scheme in south-west New South Wales. This scheme, 4 times the size of the Ord River scheme in terms of farm numbers, has been suspended by the New South Wales Government with the tacit agreement of the Commonwealth and this suspension represents perhaps the major victory in recent years for the antiirrigation lobby. Secondly, flushed with its success the lobby turned its attention to the Murray Valley and to the additional storage which is required there. It has been agreed now by all concerned that the next storage project should be the Dartmouth Dam. In nationally publicised submissions just recently the lobby described Coleambally as an economic fiasco and one of the great rural blunders of modern times. 
The criticism reminded me particularly of the criticism of the development of the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area in the 1920s. The Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area of New South Wales was launched by an administration not only for desirable sociological reasons but also to provide an assured supply of cheap food for the cities. It was attacked as a waste of public money, an economic blunder, a white elephant and a disaster as great as Gallipoli. Half a century later not even the anti-irrigation lobby in full flight suggests that the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area should be completely dismantled or auctioned off to the highest bidder in New York or Tokyo. The anti-irrigation lobby has, in fact, reserved its major effort for resurrecting the same phrases to apply to Coleambally development. 
The entire rationale behind the attack on Coleambally is that Dartmouth Dam is superfluous and Blowering Dam is virtually lying idle. This is quite incorrect. Dartmouth Dam is needed at the present time as a matter of urgency, not to increase the number of farms in the Murray Valley but simply to give some stability to the existing and already inadequate water allocations in that area. We have the dangerous situation in which Murray Valley farm water quotas are based on the assumption that Chowilla Dam has already been completed and is supplying water. This situation is fraught with danger, not only to the several thousand farmers involved but also to a dozen towns, large and small, in the Murray area. If the weather changes it is a disaster for farm and town alike in that region. It is for this reason that Dartmouth Dam is required urgently. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  would confirm that it has been agreed now by all the States concerned that it is to be the next major water storage on the Murray. So having had that agreement, the urgency is obvious. 
The second proposition on which the attacks have been made on further development has been that the Blowering Dam was built exclusively for the Coleambally area and that because Coleambally has been halted by the present New South Wales Government there is a great surplus of water. This is completely untrue. The additional water that has been made available from the Snowy River scheme was not intended exclusively for Coleambally, lt was intended to permit the fuller development of the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area, the development of Coleambally and further development along the remainder of the Murrumbidgee River, particularly in the Hay and Balranald areas. This development has already proceeded apace and the whole complex of pumping schemes that has come into being in recent years has proved invaluable in preventing drought losses and also has put huge areas in a better position to brave the current rural crisis. The references to the economics of irrigation have suggested that the Coleambally scheme is based on rice alone. This is nonsense. The planning of Coleambally was carried out by the Blowering Committee on which the State and Federal Governments were represented and the report will show that there was a broader base to planning than one crop, lt is a matter of record that the Blowering Committee in recent years has not been called together to continue the planning of the balance of the scheme in accordance with current changes in production emphasis. 
To say that the rice industry has gone sour is nonsense. The rice industry has produced 10 record crops in a row. Each year has seen a new record in production and each year has seen a new record in sates. Even this year, despite changes in the international rice market, new records for sales and production will be established. The industry which the critics have dismissed so casually over most of the last 10 years has earned more for Australia in exports than foreign-based automobile firms which enjoy such huge protection and subsidy. Coleambally is surely a symbol of Australia's travail as a nation at present. While it remains stalled, Japanese-based interests in Cape York are pushing ahead with the largest irrigation development in Northern Australia, and while Australians attack their own development, United States interests have bought the Camballin Irrigation Area in Western Australia and intend to increase production there. 
The underlying philosophy seems to be that we are incompetent to manage our economy and to carry out our own development, and the only expansion in our still empty continent should be left to other countries and other peoples. My colleagues and I reject that philosophy. Of course, Coleambally should continue because there is a demand for increased production from the Riverina and from many other areas. At the moment there is a queue of buyers from Asia and beyond. A whole range of products are in short supply, not oversupply, and this was exemplified the other day when we came within one week of importing butter for the tables of our own people. If Coleambally fails as an Australian development there are already overseas interests which are quite happy to buy it and run it as a back paddock to their main concerns at home. In summation, the facts presented by the critics are wrong and the philosophy has to be rejected. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  referred to the development of regional community, research and extension groups. Not very long ago from both sides of the Murray River and from the 3 States there came these bodies in a concerted effort to review their programmes and to organise themselves better so that they might serve agriculture in the future. They have said very bluntly that we will be wanting production in 18 months' time and that there will be a queue at farm gates asking the farmers to produce a bit more because the policy of economic nil-ism will have reduced Australia's production to almost nil. So we will be wanting economic production. These organisations which have been modelled along the lines of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Research and Extension Committee, on which I had the honour of serving for 10 years, have had as their primary aim to provide a system for encouraging co-operation between research and extension workers, service industries and landholders. This concept provides a system for departmental and community co-operation and partnership to give the most effective use of both public and private resources. 
I join my colleague, the honourable member for Murray, in commending to the Minister for National Development the submissions which will be made to him seeking some recognition of the unique role of these organisations and the practical results achieved in the promotion of farmer participation and self-help. Given the appropriate official financial aid, the philosophy of organised self-help and Government cooperation exemplified in the 8 organisations which exist across the nation could add a new dimension to public service administration. These are the words of a man whom we must all admire for his dedication,  Mr E.  M. Jackson, the executive secretary of the Victorian Irrigation Research and Promotion Organisation, to which the honourable member for Murray belongs and which I help in some small way to promote. I ask the Committee to consider the needs of these unique organisations which exist in our nation and the job which they can do. I commend the submissions which will come forward from them and I hope the Minister will receive them and study them in the interests of the best and soundest national development which all of us in this national Parliament would like to see in this nation at this time and in the future. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is a sum approaching $2. 5m contributed by poultry growers through the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities hen levy being held in reserve? 
Are egg prices to producers now as low as those in 1950? 
If the position is as stated, will he confer with the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities to see whether these reserve funds may be used in the present serious crisis in the egg industry to assist producers in an emergency? 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
Did be state on 18th August 1970 that he would discuss with his colleague, the Minister for 
Immigration, the case of William Martin of 21 Park Street, Orange, New South Wales, who found he lost his entitlement to pension from the West German Government when he became an Australian citizen. 
Is it a fact that at the same time  Mr Martin  was unable to secure his Australian pension if he had to return to Germany for urgent personal reasons. 
Did the Federal Republic of Germany discuss the matter of social service reciprocity with Australian authorities in 1969. 
If so, did the Federal Republic indicate its willingness to enter into an agreement. 
Would the reciprocity of pensions mean a considerable inflow of Deutschmarks into Australia. 
Will he confer again with his colleague, the Minister for Immigration, with a view to having this reciprocity implemented in the interest of both Australia and Australian citizens. 
I rise in this debate on the estimates of the PostmasterGeneral's Department to appeal for the adoption of a principle in relation to telephone services. That is that no Australian or no Australian family should have to pay for a trunk call to telephone the nearest doctor, dentist, chemist or even policeman. The position is that in hundreds of country centres in Australia a call to these basic services involves a trunk call. If  Mrs Sydney  or  Mrs Melbourne  had to make a trunk call to contact the corner store there would be a revolution in Sydney and Melbourne, and probably very rightly so in this day and age. But in many cases this is exactly what  Mrs Country  has to do. She cannot even call the corner store in the ma;nr centre without making a trunk call. She cannot call a doctor, a dentist, a chemist or, as I say, even a policeman unless a trunk call is involved. 
By means of a question on notice I suggested to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  the adoption of a rezoning principle with a view to providing relief to country telephone subscribers from the present heavy burden of trunk call charges and placing all trunk line users over 400 miles in the same situation. T put up a detailed proposition which the Minister answered today by saying that it would involve more than $106m in lost revenue. I do not want to quarrel with that overall figure at the present time but I want to ask the Minister at this stage whether he will reinvestigate the first stage of my proposal - the 50-mile zone - with a view to ensuring that every family can make a local telephone call to the basic services. This would mean recosting that figure. I do not believe that it would really be of such magnitude. I think it would be a comparatively modest amount. 1 hope that this will be considered. By increasing the basic zone people would be given access to the basic services by a local telephone call. That would be the first step along the road to uniform charges, which we all want to have. 
Let me refer also to the reorganisation of the telecommunications section of the Post Office. When it was suggested that there should be a major reorganisation, this hit Riverina as well as many other country electorates like a bombshell. There was a great deal of puzzlement about it. The telecommunications section made a profit in 1970-71 of nearly $24m. This was very good. But one of the things that has come out of the proposed reorganisation is that there would be area managers who would be moved from the capital cities to regional centres. I have no quarrel with that. About 22 representations have been made to me but none of them have quarrelled with the principle that there should be a real decentralisation of authority. But what they have been concerned about is that the district services which the Post Office in its wisdom 20 years ago created to give a more immediate local service, would be put back 20 years by an interior centralisation. In a place like Narrandera this would involve 53 positions and $250,000 in property. 
I have only limited time otherwise 1 would be quite happy to give the honourable member the details. If he has not got them he ought to have them. 
This is what the honourable member says, but his performance has been rather miserable on this issue, so I suggest the best thing he can do is to listen. Under the original proposals there could have been a movement of 252 people. The Postmaster-General, as a result of representations made by honourable members on both sides of the chamber, has decided that two-thirds will remain and one-third will go. It would be a good staff relations move and would relieve a great deal of personal tension now evident if the Department would promulgate advice on which positions precisely are to be moved. The statement made by the PostmasterGeneral is hardly adequate to reassure staff members. It is not adequate at the moment to reassure the communities concerned. They have asked that further consideration be given, not only because of the present rural recession but also because of the improvement in services which have been effected over the last 20 years by the decentralised division of control. 
There is a concern that this will not mean efficiency. It will mean a remoteness in areas - for example the one in which I am involved - the size of England. There is no quarrel with the concept of area management if it involves decentralisation from the major centre. If it means centralisation then there will be great concern. Incidentally, it is suggested that there will not be an increase in the total number of engineers, but it will mean a reshuffling within the Department. I hope that the Postmaster-General will pay particular attention to the 2 aspects which are still causing concern. Firstly, the staff are still in the dark. Secondly,, the communities concerned are still worried that there will not be a maintenance of the services that they now have, because of the tendency to centralise within the system. 
The third point 1 wanted to make is that the Postmaster-General's Department has done a particularly good and expeditious job in its inquiry into television services, particularly for school children in the southern Riverina. I want to make this point, because there is a vast territory in which several thousand school children have been unable to obtain the advantage of television in their schools. Television sets lie idle. They are dusty, hopeless things because there is just no use for them. Plans have been made, following an inquiry that was carried out in a particularly effective way, and decisions have been made by the Postmaster-General. I commend him for them. I now hope that these basic services for several thousand school children can go ahead. Obviously it is wrong to deprive thousands of children in this country of a basic facility which is shared by other pupils. Those are the 3 points I wanted to make in relation to these estimates. 
This afternoon in the Sydney 'Sun' the financial editor issued a report in relation to the Northern Agricultural Development Corporation Ltd as follows: 
The public share issue offered by Northern Agricultural Development Corporation Ltd, closed last night - 50 per cent undersubscribed. 
Prospectus was released last September for an issue of 2.6 million SO cent ordinary shares at par. 
The Australian public equity would have been almost 37 per cent, but its interest now is anybody's guess. 
Underwriting brokers . . . could place the shortfall anywhere - this includes outside Australia. 
This particular development was started by  Mr Bryce  Killen who has an enviable reputation in relation to development in this country. He was very anxious, and proclaimed his anxiety, to keep this property and the development with which he was anxious to proceed in Australian hands. It was indeed a contrast to the announced intention of  Sir William  Gunn. Just the other day there was an interesting comment in the 'Australian' which stated: 
The main difference between the two floats apart from the fact that  Mr Killen  is making his offering in Australia and  Sir William  is making his offering in America is that  Mr Killen  is not expecting an easy time raising his $1.3m in Australia, while  Sir William  is with his $7.6m in America. 
Another difference is that, dollar for dollar,  NADC  looks a far superior buy. 
Here we have a situation where an Australian attempts to interest Australian capital in a large link for northern development, but apparently his efforts have not proved successful. The reason why I raise this matter on the adjournment tonight is that the 'Sun' financial editor stated also: 
Perhaps Federal MPs Grassby and Everingham- 
I am glad to see my colleague in the chamber -  might save the day with their Australian Heritage company - if they are 'fair dinkum'. 
Admittedly Australian Heritage has idealistic motives, but what about making a more 'realistic' investment in  NADC  rather than the Simpson Desert. 
If Americans were going to take up the shortfall - wouldn't there ever be a clamour from the locals to keep it Australian. 
Of course there would be. At the present time there are several million acres of land in northern Australia on the market, as well as on the American market and several other markets around the world. What is the situation in relation to the Australian Heritage concept? This was designed particularly to conserve. It is in the process of being formed to establish a park area, a sanctuary or  a  wilderness area. This is the concept. As the 'Sun' financial editor indicated, it had this basis of action. Large numbers of Australians - certainly more than 4,000  -  have so far shown their interest in holding a bit of Australia. They are showing an earnest of the nation's determination in bulk to hold its own assets. We come down to a practical problem in regard to this development. Do not let us forget that in this development we have an area ot land - I shall give the exact area so that the House will know exactly what is involved - in which it is planned to clear 300,00 acres. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has estimated that in that region a fully developed small property should return about 6 per cent on invested capital. It was conceded by many specialists that although there were risks in the Willeroo promotion there were also potential rewards. 
The point I make tonight is that here we have an organisation which was floated to develop, with Australian capital and enterprise, land and also some handling facilities. According to the report at the present time there is a prospect that, because of the shortfall of interest, the property may now go to overseas corporations and to overseas capital. This is surely an obvious example, together with other examples in the north, of an area in which the Commonwealth has a responsibility. Its responsibility is clear, too. It goes beyond one project and ohe particular example of development. Its responsibility is in fact to ensure that these enterprises are examined in the light of Australia's interests. 
If an enterprise was involved here which the Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicated had prospects for success and people were already involved in it but it seemed to have stalled, should there not be some Commonwealth and national initiative if it is determined to be desirable from a national point of view? That is the point I wish to make this evening. I should think that it would be the duty of the Government to examine this situation now,, otherwise there will be more selling overseas in the manner of  Sir William  Gunn of Australian land and Australian enterprise. Here we have a particular problem and a particular project. I do not see anything wrong with a little national enterprise in this field. I am saying that it should be in fact examined now by the Commonwealth 
Government.  It should call for reports as ti) what  has  happened. The Commonwealth Government  should  be in the position of asking what it is intended to do with the shortfall  and  whether there is any suggestion of going outside Australia to raise the balance of the capital. If it is established that this is a sound and viable proposition, even though there may be a degree of risk in it, there should be a national initiative to lake up that shortfall. 
If the Commonwealth Government does not proceed in that way it will not inject the confidence into this kind of development which is needed at the present time. There is a great desire to proceed but what is in fact happening is that the  nation  is saying that it does not really matter. As a matter of fact, the Government has failed to show any initiative whatsoever in these matters. Any vacuum which is left is going to be filled. That is what has happened. It has happened in relation to the exploitation of every national resource that we have. A vacuum has been left and because nature abhors a vacuum it is filled by overseas interests. Then we wake up in the morning and say: 'Is it not a terrible thing?' It should be made clear that the responsibility is ours. It is no use complaining if 60 per cent of the Top End goes to the United States, if considerable other areas are developed by Japanese capital, if Hong Kong capital comes in and takes a further share in another area if in fact we turn our backs on the developed project and say: Let us just see what happens'. 
That is a policy of doing nothing. It is a policy of bankruptcy because we are in fact just adjourning, if you like, our interests until we may come back at some time in the future and decide that we will take an interest in our own heritage. But it would be too late then. If the report of the Finance Editor of the Sydney 'Sun' of this afternoon is correct  - and  I have no reason to doubt that it is - we have a situation of which the Commonwealth should take note now and, as an earnest of its desire to hold some part of our natural resources and our assets, it should immediately call for a report on where the shortfall is likely to be offered in the present situation. It should be ready and prepared to enter into negotiations in this way for a piece of our own country. There is nothing wrong with that. 
These are basically sound people. They have some good prospects. They have a piece of Australian land that has been cleared for development. However, some risks are involved. We have a situation here where there is a need for national initiative. I would suggest with great respect that the thousands of people who want to demonstrate their concern from the point of view of the little man are not in a position to go into the pastoral business, the shipping business or the meat processing business. That is not their intention. But what they do say is that they are prepared in their own small way to make a contribution for no profit and no return but simply to demonstrate their desire that the Commonwealth Government - the national government - should take a positive interest in the development of the nation's resources and prevent further alienation of them, particularly in instances like this where it is obviously not necessary. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the Tariff Board completed its inquiry into admitting cheese other than cheddar to the Australian market. 
If so, has he received the report from the Board. 
If he has received the report, does it include a finding on the question of long term antidumping action. 
If not, will he seek the completed report at the earliest opportunity and have the recommendations examined for a decision as a matter of urgency in view of the import of more than 8,000 tons of non-cheddar cheese in the last 2 years. 
asked the Minister  for  Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he make available in answer to this question the information he proposes to provide the honourable Member for Mitchell relating to the intrim balance sheet of the Australian Wool Commission (Hansard, 28th September 1971, page 1526). 
I second the motion. I think the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has done a service to the Parliament in raising this matter at this time. There is an urgency about it that transcends any matters of party political advantage or disadvantage. The urgency is that we have reached a stage where the House of Representatives is now the second chamber of the Australian Parliament. It is very much a secondary chamber. This has come about because the Senate has taken the initiative to inaugurate a committee system which is getting down to the real work of administrative government and to giving the Parliament its proper role in the legislative and administrative sense of the nation. I draw attention to the fact that at the present time it is possible in the Senate to probe deeply and pertinently into every department of State. I venture to say that you,  Mr Speaker,  would agree - and I think all members of the Parliament who have thought about this would agree - that the debate on the Estimates in the House of Representatives is not a debate on the Estimates at all. In fact if there is any reference made to the Estimates it is almost by accident. 
This state of affairs is bringing the Parliament of the nation into some contempt for this reason, that year after year we marshal here a phalanx of the most senior public servants and the permanent administrators of the nation: They sit here hour after hour while we in fact take the opportunities which are given to us in the debate on the Estimates to debate everything but the Estimates themselves. I plead guilty to doing this because I take these opportunities which are afforded under the forms of the House to bring before the Parliament matters which I feel are urgent on behalf of the people I represent and the nation as a whole. I make no apology for doing this. I do not castigate any honourable member for following the example set over the years. 
It is not just a matter of an individual's performance in this regard. The individual follows his conscience in these matters. He follows the dictates of the needs as he sees them of the people whom he represents. But if we look at it as parliamentarians we find that the Estimates debate in the House of Representatives is not a debate on the Estimates at all, and it never can be. Honourable members may say, 'Well, this has been going on for some 70 years so why move now to suspend the Standing Orders to do it as a matter of urgency?'. There is this urgency,  Mr Speaker,  that the Senate has already taken the lead which is making for an imbalance in the duties and responsibilities of the Senate, lt is very likely that in a very short space of time there will be a committee of the Senate which will examine probably the most important matter in our country today, and that is the matter of foreign investment, its costs and benefits to the nation. The indications are that the Senate will have such a committee; it will either refer this matter to that committee or it will establish a committee and go ahead on the basis of the present committee system to examine this most important matter. What will be the position here? The position in this place is that we have not the machinery that is now established in the Senate. Do not think for one single moment that I am denigrating what the Senate is doing. I entirely applaud its initiative and I applaud the way in which it is getting down to legislative and administrative matters which are the province of the House of Representatives. These matters are also the province of the Senate. The members of the Senate are discharging their obligations as senators, both to the nation and to the people but we are not, with respect, doing this because the very nature of the apparatus that we have which makes it impossible for us to do it. 
What has been suggested is that we should examine this matter. I do not think that the honourable member for Wills is being dictatorial about the ultimate structure that we will have. I do not think this -is his point at all. I believe that he is not -saying that we should in fact suspend everything for an indefinite period to do it all now but rather he is - and I support him wholeheartedly - serving notice on all -members of the Parliament and of the Government, who after all are parliamentarians as well as members of the Executive, of the fact that it is urgent for the House of Representatives to update itself so that it can make an effective contribution to the legislative and administrative processes of government in this nation at this time. There is an urgency because of the lopsidedness. The honourable member for Wills has said that this matter has been on the notice paper since 10th June 1970. This Parliament will shortly go into a long break - the long, hot summer break. 
It will be a long, hot summer break in many ways because of a hotting up' of many issues in the community. 
The economy might well be in cold storage but it will be a long, hot summer's break for many of us who are concerned about the nation's needs and our constituents' needs. In that time we will not go forward one step in this vital matter. We will not proceed because unless there is some commitment by the Executive in this place to the reform which is so essential we are going to be wagged, if I may put it in that way, bv the Senate almost as a tail. I do not think that this is the desire of the Senate or of senators but this is the situation which we are in at the present time.  T  am constantly getting letters from my colleagues in the Senate which give information which is important to all members of the House of Representatives and which has been derived as a result of questions particularly in Senate committee hearings. 
What an extraordinary situation where - half of the Parliament is getting, a flow of information which is denied, except at second hand, to the other half. This is the position day after day. As the. custodian of the rights and privileges of this House you,  Mr Speaker,  must be deeply concerned. It is not a matter of whether this Party or that Party will derive any advantages. As a matter of fact if we were to put it very bluntly it would be desirable to have parliamentary reform now because this is the turning point in the tide of the affairs of Australia, whatever may happen in detail, and it is desirable for us to be ready to tackle the problems that confront us. The committee system is a proven system in the other major parliaments of the world. In the Congress of the United States certainly there are difficulties associated with the operation of the system but the principle remains. In the House of Commons in Britain, in the House of Commons in Canada and in the Lok Sabha in India there have been meaningful advances on the old, original and now obsolescent system which we still hold to in the House of Representatives in Canberra at this time. If we do not take some decision now as members of the House of Representatives, which is the major forum of this nation, then we will not be in a position to discharge our responsibilities and we will not be able to deal with the great issues even in the same way as they are dealt with by our brother members in the Senate. 
This is the crux of the issue at the moment. This is the reason why I have seconded the motion to suspend the Standing Orders. I am most concerned that the Senate, for example, will - and I commend the Senate for its action and 1 support it, although 1 do not know whether a resolution has yet been adopted - embark on a most important inquiry into the whole scope and ramifications of foreign investment, its costs and benefits in this country. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
ls a major review being made of Australia's mineral policy. 
If so, when was the review ordered and when is il anticipated that it will be completed. 
Will the results of the review be presented to Parliament. 
Thank you for the call,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I might say that I would be quite happy to yield to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  or the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  on this matter because the motion which has been moved is strictly in accordance with the principles and policies of the Australian Labor Party. So, there is no point in members of the Opposition prolonging the doubts as to where we stand. We will vote for the motion. The major matter before the House is whether the members who have spoken will vote for the motion and whether the Ministers would like to give us the benefit of the Government's view on this revolt by its members this morning. I am happy to yield if either of the Ministers rise. 
I can see that the Ministers are running away from this matter. Of course, I do not blame them. They are carrying the can of me Government's policy which, after a year, has proved to be completely and absolutely reprehensible. I remind honourable members that a year ago the Government took action against a primary industry which had asked the Government for no support, no subsidies and no special consideration. 
One year and one month later, the chickens have come home to roost in this matter of wine excise, and pretty sick chooks they are. They too are suffering from a hangover after tasting the Government's unpalatable brew. In defiance of the advice tendered by economic advisers of the industry itself, the Government introduced the first wine tax in the history of Australia. The only published evidence of its possible effects came from  Dr J.  Taplin and  Mr W.  Ryan, who examined the proposed tax and warned that price is a fairly effective regulator of consumption and predicted a 20 per cent drop in consumption if the tax were applied. The Opposition took the trouble to consult the economic data available. lt conferred with industry leaders and resolved unanimously that the tax should be rejected on the grounds that it could damage the industry to such an extent that the Government would be forced to use the proceeds, if any, of the tax to help rehabilitate the people who had been made to suffer because of the tax. 1 have the list of those members who voted for the tax. It includes the honourable members for Angas  (Mr Giles),  Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe).  The Opposition's policy was clear and definite then and it is clear and definite now. The motion reflects our policy exactly. The answer by the honourable member for Angas on 13th October 1970 was to describe all our submissions, which he himself has made this morning, as nonsense. He repeated it twice to make sure we understood that he personally rejected all the points that we made - the same points which he has just made. He said that they were nonsense on 2 occasions. He accepted the wine tax and voted for it as did the remainder of the South Australian quartet comprising the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  and the honourable members for Wakefield and Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  It was a singularly silent quartet at that time and it has been silent in the period since. The silence of Dean Maitland has dominated the quartet on this subject. But the honourable member for Angas did indicate that if the Opposition were right and his Government were wrong, he would consider voting against his colleagues. The moment of truth has arrived. This is a test of his sincerity - indeed, of his honour - and I hope that he is worthy of the test. Only he can rescue his own credibility. We listened to the honourable member - 1 give him the credit for doing his homework in a specific and factual manner - indicate to the House exactly what has happened in the last 12 months and this was in accordance with what we indicated would be the case. 
The situation is summed up very simply in the 43rd annual report of the Australian Wine Board which indicated that the estimated revenue of $12. 5m was actually $9.25m and that the shortfall in revenue in 1970-71 was equal to 6.5 million gallons Of wine at 50c a gallon excise. This helps to demonstrate the severity of the tax. The cutback in wine sales is acknowledged by all. The prospects are so grim that one South Australian industry authority believes that this will result in 100,000 tons of grapes being left on the vine to rot in the vintage from February to April next. So, the situation is not localised; it crosses State boundaries. However, let us be clear that in years of over-supply there could be a threat to 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the production of the area represented by the honourable member for Angas. Production could be surplus to requirements. 
It is interesting to contrast the Government's treatment of winegrowers to its treatment of the proposed increase in the excise on beer. It surrendered to brewery pressure. The breweries mounted a magnificent campaign and frightened the Government into dropping the increase. In fact, brewery profits have doubled in most cases, primarily at the expense of the wine industry. The utter stupidity of this tax is illustrated also by the findings of the South Australian Prices Commissioner. He examines all company balance sheets and profit and loss accounts each year. He found that the increase that wine makers could stand was probably no more than $5 a ton, so what did the Federal Government do but impose an excise of S75 a ton. No matter what price savings are made, the Federal Government has imposed an impossible burden. 
Let me illustrate further how much the Government has put not a finger but a fist into the wine industry till. The bottle, which I have in my hand and which I purchased at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms half an hour ago, cost me $2.31. Of this amount, the grower receives 2c. The Government receives 4 times as much as the grower receives from the sale of this bottle. 
I should like to incorporate it in Hansard, but not full. However, this is an indication of the extent and the severity of the impost. It costs lc to put the cork in the bottle and the grower receives 2c for each bottle but the Federal Government receives 4 times as much. That is a condemnation in itself - a silent condemnation, if you like. The disaster facing growers and winemakers is obvious; they have worn a track to Ministers telling them this. I thank the Acting Minister for Primary Industry for the glass he has put in front of me. It is the best gesture from the Government that I have had in 2 years. 
What is the Government's responsibility to the industry and to the growers? That master of cliches, the absent Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  admits that the wine excise must have had an impact and he has stated that the Government is keeping the tax under close review. But perhaps the best revelation of the Government's real attitude was given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Leader of the Country Party, who is also absent, when he addressed the Clare show in South Australia and said: 
While the Australian wine industry is having some problems, these problems are only associated with producers of lower quality wines. Manufacturers of good quality wines have little to worry about. 
Within a few days, B. Seppelt and Sons Pty Ltd and S. Wynn (SA) Pty Ltd, nationally known wine makers, at their annual meetings, blamed the Government's savage impost of excise for the fall in wine sales. The answer by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who was one of those personally responsible for the tax, was to insult every wine maker in the nation, because they are all in this degree of trouble. He says you are all producing an inferior product. He has been called upon by industry spokesmen to apologise but he has not done so yet. The tragedy is that this is the answer by the Government and by the  Deputy  Prime Minister to the industry's problems. Even visitors to the country can recognise the stupidity of the tax. Not the least among recent visitors was the Duke of Edinburgh. In a conversation with a wine man, he said: What is the effect of this new wine excise?' The wine man said: 'Very bad, especially on lower priced wines'. The Duke, obviously with a certain amount of foreknowledge said: 'Do you mean it works out at 20 per cent on cheaper wines and 5 per cent on dearer wines?' The wine man replied: Yes'. The Duke said: 'A crazy system'. He docs not come to Australia often, but he conies often enough to identify the stupidity of this particular excise. 
While the Government is hitting this industry - our industry and our growers - it has left the national doors open to a flood of foreign wines and spirits and has refused to take action to prevent obvious dumping in Australia by some foreign companies. Two million gallons of foreign wine have been imported into Australia since 1966-67. That constituted a loss to Australian wine growers of more than $lm. Brandy imports since June 1968 have exceeded 800,000 proof gallons, representing a loss of $1.3m. Yet, we have the absurd position of the Australian taxpayer subsidising overseas grape growers to the extent of $3 a ton. The industry has said very bluntly and definitely that if the Government is hungry for revenue there are other ways to raise it. If the Government is hungry for revenue it could have started with the flood of foreign wines and brandy; it could have tackled that matter first before it turned to the home industry. But no, the home industry in fact was the first to be attacked, despite all the advice. Then today we heard the honourable member for Angas, a Government supporter who voted for the tax, come back and say: Look, from my information and the information which has been furnished to me, I doubt whether the Government in fact is getting anything out of it at all. It could be losing revenue'. I give him full marks for his perspicacity 1 year and 1 month later. A convert is always welcome, and we hope that he will hold to his conversion when the testing time comes. 
Lei me refer to another possible threat to growers of dual purpose grapes. These grapes are having difficulty now finding any home at all. The dried vine fruits industry is in serious trouble. By Government action the wine industry has been brought into serious difficulty. A considerable quantity of dual purpose grapes could have no home at all. I mention with some pride the fact that 90 per cent of the wine produced in the Slate of New South Wales and one-quarter of the light table wine produced in the nation comes from the town of Griffith and the surrounding district; and Griffith has a proud record for the quantity and quality of its wine. I can say also that we could see shortly anything up to 40 farms going under wine grapes, and those 40 farms happen to be associated with the Griffith Co-operative Cannery and the people who make it up. But a sentence of death has been imposed on this very useful institution which has forward sales, which has an up to date structure and which operates in an efficient manner. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon),  who is presently in the chamber, has seen the telegram which came in just a few minutes ago. It contained an urgent request for representatives from the Griffith Co-operative Cannery to interview the Minister to determine what financial assistance the Commonwealth Government is now prepared to offer the Griffith Co-operative Cannery following the recent second refusal by the New South Wales State Government to assist in the present crisis. This is an incredible situation. A sentence of death is being passed on an efficient unit of production. This efficient unit of production already has forward sales, it has assets over liabilities, 'jut it has been sentenced to death at this stage by the Premier of New South Wales. We hope that the sentence of death that he has passed will be commuted by the Federal Government in this instance because here again is another example of where the rural crisis has been deepened by Government action or inaction. 
I find the situation at which we have arrived today very refreshing. I do not pour scorn on Government supporters who have found their consciences this morning, not at all. The submission made by the honourable member for Angas who moved the motion is in accordance with Opposition policy. The submission of the honourable member for Wakefield, who seconded the motion is in accordance with Opposition policy. The submission of the honourable member for Paterson, who supported the motion, is in accordance with Opposition policy. I think that this is very good and refreshing, and I would hope that their words will be matched by actions. But we have a sorry story. Let me emphasise again that there has never been any doubt as to our attitude or as to where our policy was and where it stands today. Anyone who suggests differently has only to refer to the annals of this House. Our policy is clear and definite. 
Actions speak louder than words. There has been a betrayal of the wine industry by those who have had the honour lo represent it so far. These people have the chance to redeem their honour and their responsibility to the people they represent. As I say again, the moment of truth for them is now. ff they vote for the excise for a second time they should face their electors and tell them why. They can no longer run away from their clear responsibility to condemn the tax and to vote against it. 
The hour is late not only for the Parliament but also for a gallant body of farmers and their families who tonight feel that they have been cheated and betrayed. The toll of a situation not of their making is already making inroads on individuals who have fallen ill. One tonight is in hospital with a nervous breakdown. Another told me: 'I arrived here as a migrant 16 years ago with 2 suitcases. I have worked hard and long. If this happens I leave Australia with only one suitcase'. I am referring to the situation at the Griffith Cooperative Cannery Ltd. Perhaps this is the only cannery in Australia which has sold forward the entire pack for next year. The growers face extinction because the combined FederalState governments cannot to this stage find a guarantee of $200,000. The growers do not want money, not a red cent in cash. They simply want a guarantee which is demanded by the Bank of New South Wales, which has decided that if the Government is giving some canneries $4.5m in cash the Bank should at least have a guarantee in relation to this cannery. The growers have not been paid at all for the fruit that they delivered last season. They are owed $250,000. They have assets valued at more than $500,000, which they have put into the cannery. Because they have agreed to make this sacrifice by putting in half of what they are owed, the cannery at present has assets in excess of liabilities. It has sold its pack forward. The harvest starts in 21 days. In addition the cannery provides 120 jobs for the town of Griffith in New South Wales. 
Very reasonably, the management and shareholders of the cannery asked for a government guarantee. The assets of the cannery are worth $1m in any case. The Premier of New South Wales first said that this cannery had received great assistance, in money and other ways, from the Government of New South Wales. He said this in the New South Wales Parliament. The fact is that this cannery has received no help of any kind from his or any other government. The Premier then indicated that, if the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture recommended a guarantee, it would be given. The Minister came, saw and said that he would recommend a guarantee. The Premier has broken his undertaking. In a letter that I received from him yesterday - that is, Thursday - he indicated that the State could not afford to help. He made no reference to his undertaking; he forgot his offer of help. He said that the State could not afford it. 
I first raised this matter with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who is now in Europe. After I raised the ma'ter in this House, the Minister did discuss the problem with the New South Wales Government. He told it that the problem was a small one which it could handle easily. 1 made representations to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  and he replied by telegram: 'Surely it is not seriously argued that the sum is beyond the resources of the State of New South Wales'. The Acting Minister has indicated in further talks that New South Wales has made no move of which he knows to help the cannery. No approaches and no suggestions have been made. He agreed after our last conference - and I thank him for his agreement - to contact the State Government. He informed me just before this debate tonight that he would be doing that today - that is, Friday. 
Premier Askin also has agreed now to the conference that I suggested be held in Canberra between the Commonwealth, the State representatives and  Mr Ralph  Bradley, who is the national leader of the canning fruit growers. The Premier has undertaken to make representatives available. I have conveyed this undertaking to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. I ask him tonight to convene a conference on this subject as a matter of urgency. The suggestion has been made that the growers should make an outright gift of everything that is owing to them - that is, $250,000 plus plant worth $500,000  -  and accept heavy levy charges for the privilege of delivering to the Leeton Co-operative Cannery. The Leeton Co-operative Cannery already is rationing its own suppliers. The gesture would be meaningless because if $750,000 is taken from Griffith growers they will be bankrupt, the town will lose jobs and everyone will be hit. The town of Griffith is fighting back in this matter. Moves are already under way to try to raise, by debentures, money from within the community. 
My purpose in rising in the early hours of this morning is to appeal to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry to convene now that conference, to which Premier Askin has belatedly agreed to send representatives, and at least to see whether 2 powerful Governments can match the efforts of a small town and a small cooperative to avert a sentence of death given so carelessly in Sydney this week. 
I conclude by pointing out that this is a matter which in Griffith has touched the whole of the community - its businessmen, its growers, its workers and all its townspeople. They are doing their best to try to save a situation which would bring great hardship on the eve of Christmas. The other thing that hurts is that there is no need for this hardship because the cannery has assets in excess of liabilities. It has sold forward. All is in readiness to go ahead. The only thing that is lacking is a modest bit of paper which could well come from the Commonwealth and State governments in partnership. In fact, what the growers are being asked to do is to give up more than 3 times the amount which is sought by guarantee. I do not think that is justice in the context of other help that has been given, and I do feel that this is a moment for an appeal for urgent action by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. I thank him for his co-operation this week. He is puzzled, as I am, about what has happened in Sydney. I would hope that the appeal would be heeded. He knows that I am making it. I make it with every ounce of sincerity that I can muster at this hour of the morning on this most important matter to many people. 
asked the Minister for Trade  and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he supply information on investment by Australian and foreign companies in (a) Singapore; (b) Malaysia; (c) Thailand and (d) the Philippines corresponding to the information he gave in respect of Indonesia in answer to question No. 3303 (Hansard, 17th August 1971, page 183). 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In what States are the consumer reaction tests on a butterfat and vegetable oil spread being carried out under the administration of the Australian Dairy Produce Board (Hansard, 27th October 1971, page 2656). 
Has the new spread been manufactured in Australia from Australian materials. 
Will he seek the fullest co-operation of the States to ensure the success of this commendable example of enterprise by the Australian Dairy Produce Board. 
In connection with this measure before the House at the third reading stage a point that should be made is that New South Wales has not had an opportunity- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I had a brief in the Parliament today to make a point on behalf of 600 settlers in New South Wales- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be  now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1.5 a.m. (Wednesday) 
I rise to support the amendment that I have seconded. It is designed to bring in a single statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip as a matter of urgency. I have listened with tremendous interest to the speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  If I summarise incorrectly the points he made I hope he will correct me. I did understand him to say that the wool industry can no longer endure in its present state and that the time for palliatives is over. In fact, he made a call for radical solutions from his own background and knowledge of the industry. I appreciate his honesty and I appreciate his statement that in his conscience he could not support our amendment because it is not quite radical enough. That may well be, but I noted also that be would not oppose it, and I think that at least is a step forward. I was very interested to see the sort of reception that that speech of some courage and perception received from the honourable members in the corner. The only reception it got was from a distinguished backwoodsman who queried what the honourable member was saying. 
There is no doubt at all in my mind that the wool handling and marketing situation in Australia has indeed assumed the proportions of a national scandal. We he?rd perhaps a prophecy - and I think a valid one - from the honourable member for Moreton, made in 1957. Just 3 years after that, another distinguished member of government, the present Minister-in-Charge of Rural Reconstruction in New South Wales,  Mr Thomas  Lewis, also assumed the role of prophet. He said so in a burst of modesty. In November 1960 in tha New South Wales Parliament, when referring to the Government of that time, he said this: 
If it persists in bringing the rental up to 5 per cent - 
He was talking about closed settlement; I address that interpolation to the Minister for the Interior -  - I prophesy, provided there is no great increase in wool values, and it will have to be of the order of 25 per cent in the price of wool over the next S to 10 years, that this closer settlement  scheme will be a failure. I have no doubt about that. 
In November 1960 his solution was to reduce the rentals by half. He has been asked many times since he assumed ministerial office in 1965 to do just that, and he has done exactly nothing. I instance that prophet in contrast to my friend, the honourable member for Moreton,' who at least has had some thoughts since 1957 and maintained some consistency. The Minister-in-Charge of Rural Reconstruction in New South Wales has apparently repudiated everything he said' II years ago. I repeat what I said: The wool handling and marketing situation in our country has assumed the proportions of a national scandal. We are the largest single wool producing nation in the world and we are the most primitive in our approach to handling and marketing. We have a rural depression which began when wool was compounded by the Government's panic and stupidity in determining that wheat rationing should be introduced in the middle of a season. - 
At least the Government's approach to the wool industry has been consistent. Over the years it has set out to preserve the auction system against all attempts at its reform. Over the years it has insisted that all who are associated with the present archaic system of handling should be protected. When it introduced the Bill to establish the Australian Wool Commission there were only 2 guarantees: One was to protect the brokers and the other was to protect the private banking system. There was no suggestion that even minimum protection should be given to producers. The first priorities of the Government were, firstly, to the auction system and to all who derive their living and commissions from it; secondly, to the brokers: and thirdly to the banking sector! If there was any doubt about the Government's priorities it should have been resolved when the wool subsidy proposal subsequently came before the House. The Government was happy to enter into an open ended commitment of $100m and more. It specifically laid down that this money should go not to the growers, not to the producers but to the brokers and the holders of the stock mortgages and to anyone who had a first mortgage on the stock and the- wool. In fact, the Act, provides that such a person shall have the money. This is spelt out in the Bill. The Government has acted time and again in regard to wool to protect not the producer or consumer but the moneylenders and the commission merchants. We know .that the rural debt exceeds $2,000m and that 90 per cent of the rural debt is held by banks, pastoral finance companies and insurance companies. In fact, 90 per cent of the. wool subsidy will go to those great financial institutions and the residue will go to the growers. It will be nothing more than a. political sop. 
What is the attitude of the Opposition to this further commitment to the Australian Wool Commission? Let us not forget that this Commission is the Government's answer to the wool crisis. This was the answer to demand across the countryside for a single national authority. It was a stage-managed answer by government to that demand, lt was designed to purchase rural electoral peace. But it could never have been honestly designed to bring rural prosperity and stability of wool prices. The Government should remember that it told the Opposition, the Parliament and the country that this was its answer, based on its experience and knowledge. So we cooperated. I remind members of the Government that we co-operated. We said: All right, if based on your knowledge, assessment and background in government this is your answer, we will give it a chance". 
We gave a speedy passage through the House to the. legislation to establish the Australian Wool Commission. But we also warned what would happen. Instead of reforming the charade of the' auction system the Government entered into it and became one of the actors in it. Let us be clear that that is exactly what has happened. Instead of reforming the present outdated and primitive system the Government has joined it, using the taxpayers' money. I might add that the Government has allowed it to fall through the gaps in the national floor boards while the grower and the consumer are exploited with fine, high impartiality. Despite our warning the Government did its duty to its supporters, not to the rural producers or the rural population but to the vested interests which hold 90 per cent of the rural debt. 
Again we were not dogmatic. The Government is always claiming divine right after 20 years of power, so we said: 'Your commitment is complete. We doubt you but we will give you a chance.' The result is that the Government was either mistaken or has' engaged in a deliberate exercise to service the debts of its friends and to sacrifice the industry. But whatever the motive, the Commission was the answer. What has happened? I remind the House that the facts are provided in an answer to a question I asked recently. In question No. 3843 I asked: 
What is the Australian average market price for greasy wool covering all wool sold from 1st July 1970 to the commencement of operations of the Australian Wool Commission on 17th November 1970 and for all wool sold since that date to the end of the1970-71 series of wool sales. 
Has his attention been drawn to the provisional figures released by the Joint Wool Selling Organisation and quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald of 6th July 1971 stating that the average price for the last week of the 1970-71 season was 25.44 cents. 
If so. what is his attitude to this figure, when it is associated with the information available in relation to part (1) above and the reported statement of  Sir WilliamGunn, Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board, on the programme 'This Day Tonight' on Wednesday, 4th August 1971. that since commencement of operations of the Australian Wool Commission, in that 8 month period, the average market price for wool has gone up by 6 cents a pound. 
The Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  who is not now with us. replied as follows: 
The average greasy price for wool sold at auction from the commencement of the 1970-71 wool selling season until the commencement of operations by the Australian Wool Commission on 16th November 1970 was 29.69 cents per lb. 
The average greasy price for wool sold at auction from 16th November 1970 until the end of the 1970-71 wool selling season was 29.24 cents per lb. 
I am aware that the average greasy price realised at wool auctions in the final week of the 1970-71 wool selling season was 25.44 cents per lb. 
That price is not up; it is down. So we can see that the Government's wool pill has failed and this Bill provides more of the same medicine. This moneyis just as likely to go down between the cracks in the floor of the most primitive and outdated system Of commodity marketing in the world. I ask honourable members opposite to listen to this: I doubt that the grower will get 50c in $100 of this money. Everyone else will do well. Everyone who has a finger in the wool till will benefit. The brokers are guaranteed by the Government, as are the banks. The transport agencies, those who handle the wool so many times, will all be assured of their money. The way in which the Government has operated gives everyone associated with the industry an opportunity to participate in the benefits of the industry except the grower and the producer. 
I appreciate that interjection very much. I seem to remember that the last time there was such an interjection it came in the early hours of the morning when the Bill to set up the Australian Wool Commission was introduced. We took the trouble to reply in detail. It took about 15 minutes to spell out chapter and verse of the scheme which is enshrined in the amendment we have now moved.I commend the honourable member who interjected to Hansard. A study of the way in which the Commission operates in the auction room and the restrictions placed upon it by the Government through legislation, shows that in fact the operations with those restrictions not only put a minimum price but a maximum price as well. Once the Commission's ceiling is known, the whole trade accepts that as the ceiling. Because of the. limitation imposed by the Government, the Commission is putting a ceiling on wool. It is setting a minimum price, but it is also setting amaximum price. Not only is it doing that but it and the people who are involved in it are well known for the impatience they have displayed about the Government's dictating to them what the price in negotiatedsales will be. They resent it. I am surprised that some of my friends who are interested in wool have not stood in their places and shown a little interest in that aspect. 
It should be said that the only 2 categories of people not catered for in the Government's approach to these matters are the producers and the consumers. An incredible situation has been reached in which the price paid to the producer does not really matter in the total cost ofthe product. If the grower gave his product for nothing it would make virtually no difference to the price of woollen goods. The price of a $90 suit would vary by only a couple of dollars if the grower gave his wool for nothing. In other words, what the grower receives could be doubled and the price of the finished article would hardly be affected. But what is the position with wool processing in our country? We are distinguished by the fact that we process only 6 per cent of the national clip. We are distinguished by the fact that we have fewer woollen goods available today than we have had for many years past. We are distinguished by the fact that we have spent $300m on wool promotion and we are still in difficulties and still buying the basic goods. We have not caught up with the basic facts of life . in regard to wool selling and promotion-- - 
Order! 1 think that the loud noises behind the honourable member are distracting him. 
They are not distracting. The honourable members are hurt, wounded and upset, and so they should be. I only hope that they find their consciences before too long. I have discussed this matter with my good friend, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who is engaged in the retail trade. As he has indicated to the House on previous occasions and as I know, these days fashions change. I say to the distinguished backwoodsmen on my left: Believe it or not, fashions change. These honourable members have not woken up to it. I am delighted to be part of a change in fashion,' in scene and in politics in our country The honourable members on my left have not caught up with it. 
In times past the honourable member who interjects so frequently would buy his dark green suit, his dark blue suit or his black suit in one year and again 5 years later. He would vary from dark blue to dark green to dark blue. It did not matter to the retailer, who kept such suits for him for 20 years. But these days amongst the younger generation - of which honourable members on my left know extremely little - there is a desire for a little bit of colour, life and vitality and a little bit of change. The retailer has to be prepared to meet that change. In many cases he increases his mark-up from 50 per cent to 100 per cent because he may have to dispose of the garments pretty quickly at the end of the season to stack up for the new season. 
At greatly reduced rates. The honourable member is quite right. The point I am making is that all these changes are taking place, but no fundamental change at all has taken place in the Government's backwoods approach to wool, its processing and its marketing. We are still processing only 6 per cent of the national wool clip. We are still bound to the charade of an auction system to which we have been bound hand and foot for 20 years. The great alibi of the Government whenever we discuss wool is that nobody really wants to buy it. lt should be placed on record that in the 2 years when we had a price drop of 33 per cent the global utilisation of wool went up by 2.4 per cent and the global production by less than 0.5 per cent. So what are we talking about? Obviously we are talking about price. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has issued warnings about price. He also has said, and the Opposition unanimously says, that there have to be savings so that the net return to the grower is worth while. What are these net returns likely to be? It has been estimated that within the system handling accounts for 10c per lb that there is 6c in external freights. How would these savings be brought about? The only way they can be brought about is through an integrated marketing system under a single statutory authority, and that is accepted by us. It has been for more than 1 year and every major industry organisation has supported our policy. They do not always say. 'This is the ALP policy that we are now supporting". But, never mind, the important thing is- 
The honourable member is awake again. I hope he stays with us. More than one year ago we adopted a policy which is now attracting support throughout Australia from every major organisation. It does not really matter to the minor voices on my left, some of whom will never survive, but this is being done. As a matter of fact, let us be quite blunt about this. As my friend, the honourable member for Robertson, reminds me, even a distinguished Tasmanian,  Mr von  Bibra, a member of the Australian Wool Board, says that wool production is no longer a way of life. He told growers that acquisition hud to be accepted. Where do honourable members opposite stand on this question? They should not hide behind their desks and their microphones for another 12 months. 
Yes, they will. But what form of acquisition wili they accept? Will it be a form of acquisition which is in fact a monumental alibi so that everyone else will be serviced - so that the money lenders and the commission agents will all be serviced and the grower will be left exactly where he is today? This is the question. 1 want to say in summation of what I. am putting forward tonight that we have before the House at the present time an amendment which reflects our policy. It is an amendment which, in itself, is a summation of what we intend for the wool industry. It may well be that Government supporters will come to some sort of realisation and acceptance of what is needed. 
Perhaps, but I am convinced that (here are many Government supporters who know full well what is needed, l am just interested to know what applies the brakes to them because there are honourable members opposite of . perception and conscience and I wonder what prevents them from acting. A year ago we were not prevented from adopting a policy and pushing for it. We are putting it forward tonight clearly and distinctly. But I wonder what secret influence is exerted on the Government and its supporters individually and collectively which prevents them from supporting in this Parliament something which they say privately and in their electorates is eminently desirable. 
The House is dealing tonight with a measure which affects an industry which has, I think, more small people, more struggling people in it than any other primary industry of which I know. It is an industry in which trouble is endemic although I must say that most of the trouble is due to climatic conditions. The industry has been encouraged by State and Federal governments. It came into being and it has given birth to communities. The industry has made a contribution to the community internally and to our export position, and the people engaged in it work hard and well. They are efficient within the limitations of the industry, the weather and federal trade policy. 
It has been said that this Bill will not be opposed by honourable members on this side of the House. That is true. The Government made the position very clear when it bluntly said that it would put forward a scheme for study by the growers and that they may adopt it or reject it. Let us be quite clear that we are talking about an offer made by the Government and this is its only and final offer. I accept what was said by the absent Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who made the second reading speech on this Bill, when he made this statement in that speech: 
The degree of rank and file support is evidenced by the voting figures. Of the 5,004 growers enrolled 4,616 or 92 per cent cast their votes; and of these 4,560 or 98 per cent voted in favour of the scheme offered by the Government. 
That is exactly true. The scheme offered by the Government was the only one offering. The growers had either to accept or reject the scheme. They very wisely accepted it because the alternative was nothing. On that basis, of course, they accepted it. But this is not to mean that what was offered represented all of thenhopes and aspirations or that this was exactly what they wanted because this is not so. Any pretence that this is the case is quite inaccurate. What people in the industry wanted was some improvement on this scheme. When we come to the detail of the scheme we see the great problem that is inherent in it. My good friend the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who represents the neighbouring dried fruits area to the electorate of Riverina, will perhaps expound on this point. 
The maximum tonnage limitation that has been placed on sultanas is 75,000 tons. I have no doubt that when this scheme was first mooted this was perhaps a reasonable figure. But since that time the Government has introduced a crippling excise on wine. It may come as a surprise to some honourable members that the wine industry and wine excise could have an effect on the dried fruits industry. Perhaps I should refer to this effect. Sultanas are a dual purpose grape. They are grown for the production of dried fruits and they are grown also to be utilised within the wine industry. As was pointed out by honourable members from both sides of the House just recently, the wine industry faces a real crisis next year, with the next vintage. It has been suggested that perhaps 100,000 tons of grapes will not have a home. Therefore we have to look at that situation against the figure of 75,000 tons which was mentioned by the absent Minister for Primary Industry in his second reading speech. This figure will not in fact cover the situation at all. The appreciation of the industry is that at least 100,000 tons will have to be covered. As I have pointed out, the size of this tonnage has been brought about partly as a result of the difficulties being experienced in the wine industry which have arisen as a result of the savage excise that was imposed by the Federal Government a year ago. No matter what is provided in the legislation the problem of the size of the crop will still arise. Therefore I draw the Government's attention to the fact that it will most likely find that 25,000 tons to 30,000 tons of sultanas will not have a home. This eventuality is not covered by this piece of stability or legislation. 
The next point that should be made is one which was brought up by the Minister for Primary Industry in his second reading speech. He said: 
However, I think it is fair comment to say that the dried vine fruits industry is being particularly hard hit by the ill winds of adversity. A huge question mark hangs over what the future holds for this industry; the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement has collapsed. . . . 
It is quite true that the Agreement has collapsed. Of course, we are all anxious to see international stability in commodity trading. But at the same time the Government has a responsibility to Australian industries which were established by Government encouragement; it has a responsibility to look after our industries and the people in those industries in circumstances where a temporary difficulty is brought about by international trading conditions. Now there is a question mark. li we question the existence of an industry every time there is an international trade question mark we will have the most chaotic rural economy that could be conceived. We already have it in many respects. I suggest that there is a very serious principle at stake here. We have an industry. There is a need to engage in negotiations, if not multilaterally then bilaterally, to preserve the existence not only of the industry but also the communities on which it is based - communities which have been brought into being by Government encouragement and Government sponsorship of this industry. 
There are 3 points that I must make tonight. The first is that the stabilisation scheme in relation to its fixation of this tonnage limitation is unreal. It will not meet the situation in the new year unless there is specific Government action, particularly in relation to the wine industry. That is the point that must be made now. The second point is that it is not good enough for the Federal Government through its Minister to say that there is a question mark over this industry. I would accept that we do face an international marketing situation and the breakdown of the international agreement. If this is so, the responsibility is clearly with the national administration to say bilaterally: We must fix this and we must cover it'. In the long term this may not be possible, but in the short term it must be possible, because we cannot write off entire communities every time an international trading difficulty faces our country. So I make that point also. The third point that should be made tonight is that any stabilisation plan for the dried fruits industry that does not take into account the fact that weather problems are endemic in this industry to a degree greater than any other primary industry of which I know is unreal. 
In fact, we must move towards the implementation, in conjunction with stabilisation, of a national crop insurance scheme. We must do this in the same way as it has been done in countries like Canada. It must be done in the same way as it has been done by other administrations in other continents. It must be done to bring a real degree of stabilisation. It is our commitment to do this. But I would suggest to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon),  who is acting on behalf of his absent colleague, that it is important that he note these 3 major points, becuase it is just not good enough to leave a question mark over this industry. I refer to the question mark posed by the absent Minister for Primary Industry when he made his second reading speech. Of course, we support industry stabilisation. My distinguished colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patter  son) has made that abundantly clear. We support this scheme because it is the only one that has been offered. It is either this or nothing, so we accept it and hope that we can improve on it. But I direct the Minister's attention to the 3 points that I have raised on behalf of the people who happen to be in this industry, who happen to be in the Riverina, who happen to be in Darling and who happen to be in other parts of Australia. I will conclude my case on that basis at this stage. I am sure this is only the first of a series of debates that we will have to have in this Parliament on this industry to bring it to real stability. I think this will be only one of the measures that we will have to have before us before we have achieved the stability which this industry deserves and needs at this time. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that (a) in 1966-67 there were 74,000 anti-depressant prescriptions covered by pharmaceutical benefits at a cost of $324 . 000 representing 0.31 per cent of total prescriptions and (b) there has been a rise in number and cost every year since and until 1970-71 where there were 1,750,000 such prescriptions costing nearly 5.5 million dollars and representing 3.48 per cent of total prescriptions. 
If so, will the Minister (a) examine the claim that this is the highest per capita expenditure on anti-depressants in the western world and (b) order ah inquiry into the reasons for the Australian population becoming' 300 per cent more addicted to depressionsince 1966-67, and to methods of combating this depression. 
Briefly, in reply to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  he was quite right, of course, in seeking details of expenditures in this and every other sphere from the public purse. I was most taken with his thought that the $1.7m that is involved in the advances by the Federal authorities and the State authorities to the Leeton Co-operative Cannery would provide each grower with $4,000 cash. A very quaint thought indeed! I think he has probably been here long enough to know that whenever a grant is made in the name of the growers the grower usually receives the least, not the most. Certainly no money will be going directly to growers in the Leeton district. I will deal with the detail of that a little later on. 
I say in reply to the doubts expressed by the honourable member for Balaclava about the usefulness of the canned fruits industry that we are dealing with an industry that is worth $55m, and $30m of this is represented by export income. The Australian canning fruits industry over the last 25 years has earned more money in exports for this country than has the Australian automobile industry over the same period, although the automobile industry is now catching up. Its limited franchise has permitted it to expand a little more than it has in the past. The fact is that the automobile industry also gets protection of 40 per cent or 50 per cent per car internally, so the canning fruits industry is not getting very much from the public purse generally. This industry came into being as a result of an active policy of Government. The Government sponsored and encouraged the industry from the growing right through to these canneries. The Leeton cannery with which I am principally concerned, the largest in New South Wales, began its life as a State cannery. So the industry was born directly under the umbrella of Government sponsorship and Government trade arrangements, particularly with the United Kingdom. In fact the Government was the midwife, if not the father, of the industry. Let us be clear about this. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  set out the reasons for the troubles in the industry, but I would summarise them in this way: The Government sponsored the industry and government decisions have brought it into some difficulty. The Minister said: 
In the first place, devaluation of sterling left each of the canneries with a considerable loss on sales made forward" without exchange cover. 
This is true. Devaluation was a considerable blow. The problem of the canning fruit industry today in a general sense is also that there is a vacuum about its future. It was born under the umbrella of government sponsorship. It is there. Now the big question is: ls the umbrella to be taken down? What is to be the national commitment to this industry to which the nation gave birth? It might be said that obviously these Bills dealing with Shepparton and Leeton have shown that the nation has some commitment to the industry, but I think it should be said also to the honourable member for Balaclava that when it comes actually to examining where the money is to go I have done this in respect of the Leeton Co-operative Cannery at any rate and, very simply, the money is to go to meet the debts incurred under Commonwealth sponsorship, and the State of New South Wales will find no money at all. There will simply be a book entry which will wipe out some of the old debts. All that the State of New South Wales will do will be to forgo a little interest. That is all that will happen with this seemingly very large sum of $1.7m. It will go to adjust in the books some old debts and there will be some saving in interest. I think we should understand that pretty plainly and definitely. 
Let us have a look at this industry. The industry is vital and important to towns and cities such as Shepparton, Mildura, Renmark, Griffith and Leeton. It has done a fine job over the years in production, moving up from about 1 million basic cartons in 1926 to Hi million cartons in 1970, so there has been a steady expansion. It might be asked: What of the future?  Mr George  Mackey, the  Deputy  Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, when addressing the National Canning Convention the other day, said: 
Your industry has expanded sales into newer markets in recent times and there are prospects of further increased sales in Asia and in some of the newly developing countries. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Mackey went on to say: 
Secondly, unlike the wool industry for instance, you do have a market at home for a significant proportion of your output and this market can be expected to gradually increase as population grows. 
His summation was as follows: 
As 1 see it, the outlook is not one of unrelieved gloom. 
I wanted to put that on record tonight. It has been assessed by many in the industry who are charged with selling that there are greater problems for the canning fruits industry than those created by the British entry into Europe. The Leeton Co-operative Cannery has seen that the problems which it faces - these are the problems that all the canneries in Australia face - are greater than those of the British entry into Europe.  Mr B.  G. Lowe, the General Manager of the Leeton Co-operative Cannery Ltd, is reported as having said: 
. a 25 per cent increase in shipping freights lo the United Kingdom could add 20 to 30c a carton of canned fruit to costs. lt should also be realised that South Africa, one of our competitors in the canned fruits field, is able to export its products to Europe at half the cost per ton and per mile that we must meet. We have to face this situation. It has also been pointed out by  Mr Lowe  thai the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would be unable to supply one-third of the tinplate needs of the Leeton Cooperative Cannery, and the cost of importing tinplate would add another $25,000 to the cannery's costs. Here we have 2 factors under the control of this Government. The first is the shipping freights situation. We pay double the freight that our competitors pay. The second is that, because of the structure of the steel industry, we are being forced to import Japanese steel and to meet the difference in the bill. Another leader in the canned fruits industry.  Mr Angus  Martin, made a series of very effective points. He said:  . . the questions yet unanswered were: Would there be a transitional period for canned fruits, would the external tariff bc reduced after Britain's entry and how long would it take for British wages to rise to compensate for higher food hills. 
In other words, he was saying: What has our Government done about the renegotiation of British tariffs and British preferences to enable us to trade and to help this industry, which was fostered by Government, to remain viable. 
The Leeton Co-operative Cannery, which is the subject of the legislation before the House, has a higher export component than has any other cannery in Australia. Therefore, all of the things that touch on export costs affect it most seriously and most grievously. It must grow by 50 per cent if it is to meet its international competitors such as Libbys and Del Monde. One might think that this Bill, which provides $1.7m, enables it to do just this. Let us be quite clear. It does no such thing. The honourable member for Balaclava made a very thoughtful contribution to this debate. But one of the things I want to say to him is that all this Bill does, from the State point of view, is to enable a book entry to take place. All it does, from the Commonwealth point of view, is to enable some Commonwealth debts to be serviced. It certainly does not enable this cannery, which is the largest in New South Wales, to grow to a size that would enable it to meet its competitors in the international sphere on an equal basis, because to do that the cannery must grow by 50 per cent. 
In the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, which is the largest canning fruits area in New South Wales, there is a cannery called the Griffith Co-operative Cannery Ltd. We had an incredible situation in which for a very long time no-one knew what the future of that cannery would be. I mentioned this in an address to the Parliament when the Minister for Primary Industry, who has been away for a white, was here. He heard my address and I spoke to him about it. The Griffith Co-operative Cannery, which operated with grower shareholders, had grower capital of $500,000. The cannery had not paid for a whole season's deliveries by growers, which amount to $250,000. I put it to the Minister that the cannery would be forced into extinction and that this would mean that 160 people would be unemployed at a time when the countryside was in the grip of the worst depression for 2 generations. 
We saw many things happen, but the main thing that happened was that the New South Wales Government said that it was not able to meet the request to keep this particular unit going because it involved $200,000 - not in cash, but in a bank guarantee. It was beyond the resources of the State, said the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Robin  W. Askin. I took this matter up with the Federal Minister for Primary Industry. I do not want to mention his name improperly,  Mr Speaker,  but we have had an Acting Minister for Primary Industry while the Minister has been away. I took the matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He contacted the New South Wales Government. When he was away I had further contact with the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon).  He said: 'I cannot quite understand the situation because we have not had any requests from the State of New South Wales, particularly in regard to this co-operative cannery'. I accepted that completely. What happened was that in the end the New South Wales Government said in relation to this cannery: 'We are not in . a positon and we have no resources o help. We cannot assist you'. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry found this a bit surprising. I do not blame him for that. Within 3 or 4 days of the deadline for preparations for the harvest, which will start in 14 days time, we were faced with a situation in which there was no movement from the State Government and no movement from the Federal Government. Gordon Edgell Pty Ltd, which is not an unknown canner in our country, came in and said: 'We will make you an offer'. The offer was to rent this particular cannery, to meet all the commitments and interest for the current year, to pay the growers on 30 days and to keep all the jobs going at a time when we need them. That was the offer and it was accepted. Concurrently with these negotiations an offer was made, not directly by the New South Wales Government but indirectly, that the grower part of this co-operative should be given up - that is to say, the capital asset, which was $500,000, should be given up - and that all the moneys owing to growers for the last season, which amounted to $250,000, should also be given up. The offer was that they should then pay a levy which would enable them at least to find a home for their fruit in the season which begins in about 14 days time. 
This was the only offer before them, that they give up$500,000 in assets, that they forego every penny of what was owing to them for fruit delivered in the past season - $250,000 - and that they pay a levy to see that what they had for the coming season was processed. That was an offer that came indirectly from the Government of New South Wales. The instrument used was the Leeton Co-operative Cannery. But let us be clear; the financial management of the Leeton Co-operative Cannery is in the hands of the State Government in association with the Federal Government, so it is not making decisions of this type. This is important in relation to a matter I will mention in a moment or two. So what it decided to do was to accept the offer to lease to Gordon Edgell. Gordon Edgell had moved in to the extent that it was prepared to receive fruit which will be coming off the trees in 14 days time. 
But now we cometo an interesting situation where just today there has been an offer made by 3 canneries. SPC - which is Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd - Ardmona Fruit Products Co-operative Co. Ltd and Kyabram Preserving Co. Ltd. They have come together at this hour to say to the Griffith Co-operative Cannery: 'We would like to take you over on the following terms.' I do not vouch for the detail of the terms and I hope the Minister will note this. But the general terms are that they would settle the long term debts, they would pay out all the cannery's liabilities and take over its assets, they would pay 50 per cent of all that was owing to the growers of last season and they would process all available fruit from this cooperative cannery this season starting in 14 days time. That is a most generous proposition. This situation in which we found ourselves, though, is an incredible one. We found that the New South Wales Government was saying that nothing could be done because it was beyond the full capacity of the sovereign State of New South Wales to find $200,000, not in cash but in a bank guarantee. So this is what it said: 'We could not find it. We have not got it. So all we can say is that you must die peacefully.' But underground it said: Listen, if you give up all your assets and give up all that you owe we might be able to manage to instruct the Leeton Cooperative Cannery to process your fruit'. That was about all they were able to do. Now, in theory I suppose that t'v:re is a corpse in Griffith to be picked. The other canneries are now saying: 'Well, let us now have another look at it'. What I want to direct to the Minister is the question as to whether the Commonwealth is in fact extending a 'helping hand' to the growers concerned by sponsoring this offer because, as we all know, it was a unanimous decision of the Parliament. So let there be no misunderstanding about it. An amount of $4.2m was given as a loan- 
I know it was as a loan, as my friend from Murray says. It was given to help the Shepparton cannery overcome its difficulties. 
I have not finished- 
The Minister has been away for a while. I suggest he hear me out and catch up with events. It is pretty important, as I think he will agree. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  spoke as a member of Parliament not on a party basis but just to ask some questions. Ali I am doing is asking some questions. If the Minister needs time to answer we will wait. We are tolerant people. But let me put the position to the Minister. It is an extraordinary situation that this Parliament agreed, just a few months ago - it was a unanimous decision and there is no criticism of the Minister so he can relax- 
1 am glad that the Minister is relaxed. But 125 members of the Parliament determined that the loan of $4.2m to the Shepparton cannery was in order. All I am asking now is: Has the Government had some second thoughts about what should be done with the money, because if there is an offer by Shepparton, Ardmona and the other cannery associated with them to take over another cannery in New South Wales on most generous terms - it may be a very good offer - let us have the facts of the situation. This is all we are asking for in this debate. In summation - I have only a very short time left - all I want to say is that we have heard a great deal said about the growers but the growers associated with the Griffith Co-operative Cannery have had no money for last season. We have asked the Commonwealth, we have asked the State - the request is in orbit. We have also asked the Commonwealth for all the assistance that can be given to those growers because some growers have had help and some have not. All good government is based on equality of treatment and they have not had equality of treatment. So I am asking that this should have the Minister's attention. I am also suggesting to him that when it comes to the voting of money for all sorts of purposes while we may be happy to have it, I do not think that the Minister has to give an explanation to the House particularly tonight and I ask that he should give it. 
I rise to second the amendment and to speak briefly to it. I want to draw attention to the tact that this legislation deals wilh the Leeton Co-operative Cannery, the largest cannery in New South Wales and the second largest cannery in the southern hemisphere. In talking about terms and conditions, it should be kept in mind that the moneys advanced by the New South Wales Government in this case will be only a book entry. There will be no expenditure of State money, although in the legislation it states particularly and specifically that a matching sum will be made available. The New South Wales Government has determined that it will simply make a book entry and in fact wipe out some long standing debts of a cannery which began its life, in any event, as a State cannery 2 generations ago. The Commonwealth has made certain advances to match the State in this instance which will in effect wipe out some of the debts owing to Commonwealth Bank instrumentalities, so that what we have before us as a Parliament is noi a cash infusion into a particular cannery but 2 book entries. It is important to realise that, because the end result will be some savings in interest. However, one point exercising my mind and causing me to speak to the amendment is that if it was intended to charge interest on a book entry loan - if that is the right term - it would seem to me to be quite ludicrous. 
The New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government have already received interest. They have been well serviced, particularly New South Wales, in many ways. The Commonwealth has also benefited in many ways from the investment jointly in this enterprise. The debts that are owing, particularly to the measure is obviously intended to reduce governments. It would be quite ludicrous if a sum of money was earmarked to reduce a debt to governments, and that sum of money was to be the subject of interest payable to governments. So I suggest that in this instance no interest at all should be applicable. In fact, it should be a grant because it has the effect of a book entry within the Commonwealth's responsibility, and certainly within the State's responsibility, and the responsibility of their various agencies concerned with the cannery. That is the first point that should be made in respect of the proposed amendment. 
The second point emerges from an interjection made previously in the cognate debates on these measures. The Minister said that the Commonwealth has seen fit to make certain moneys available after consultation with the States. The Minister seems to be telling us that the Commonwealth has adopted the views and recommendations of the States. The New South Wales Government recommended firstly the writing off of the cannery at Batlow, and secondly the writing off of the cannery at Griffith. It was apparently the decision of the New South Wales Government that neither of those canneries was to survive. It was a further decision apparently by the State authorities that Victorian canners should enter canning in New South Wales by taking over the Griffith cannery. Again the indication by the Minister is that the Commonwealth Government, having entered into discussions and made money available, says like Pontius Pilate: 'We now wash our hands of these industries and these institutions. We take no further interest and we have no further knowledge of these matters. What is more, unless a matter is raised by the States we will take no further action'. 
This attitude does not seem to me to be terribly adequate. After all, the canned fruits industry is dependent upon Commonwealth decisions in matters of trade and all that means and also in matters spanning shipping, tariffs and the whole range of things that touch all successful trading. I say specifically that we have a situation where the States of New South Wales and Victoria have made certain decisions. The Commonwealth has said that those decisions are the prerogatives of the States and that it will take no interest in those decisions unless asked to do so by the States. I think that this is an abdication of responsibility on the part of the Commonwealth because if the Parliament is called upon to vote moneys for these purposes it should at least have some interest in the use to which the money is put; it should have some interest in the utilisation of funds which we are called upon to vote. The Minister on behalf of members of the Parliament should transmit our interest. 
I am not satisfied that the decisions which have been made are by any means the right ones. I heard an honourable member on the Government side tonight say that a particular community could be in serious trouble - that a viable unit has been overlooked. The Minister said that this is a matter for the State of New South Wales and that if that State does not want to see Batlow survive why should the Commonwealth? Is this a responsible attitude? Should we be asked to vote on these measures without having seen the end result of the decisions and the application of the funds? Apparently the answer by government is that we should be satisfied. 
The purpose of the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition is to say that we in the Opposition are not satisfied. Obviously we have a responsibility to this industry; we have a responsibility for the towns and people concerned with the industry. I think that the Minister has a responsibility at this stage in relation to the amendment to say particularly and specifically what the Commonwealth Government has in mind. It is not enough for the Government to abdicate responsibility in the way it has today. We have a responsibility in the Commonwealth Parliament because we have been called upon to find funds for the purpose outlined in the legislation. I have indicated that Leeton has to grow 50 per cent larger than it is at present. Also I have said that the debt structure of the industry has been operated by way of 2 book entries - one on the Commonwealth side and one on the State side. This means that interest should not be charged at all. 
What we are seeking is some assurance as to what the Commonwealth is going to impose and what it has in mind. This is my first point. My second point relates to the decisions that have been made by the State of New South Wales in relation to Batlow and Griffith and to the bid by the Victorian canners to take over the Griffith cannery. I think that the Minister has a responsibility to state his attitude and also to tell us whathis Government feels about this matter. The Minister said earlier that he did not know anything about it and that he had not approved of anything. Is that enough? I believe that is a negative way of putting the situation. I want to put very bluntly that the Commonwealth Parliament has a responsibility. The purpose of the Opposition's amendment is to make it plain that members of the Opposi tion think that the Government  has  a responsibility. We think the Government should answer the queries that have been put to it specifically on these matters. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the total allocation by the Government for relief of woolgrowers under its emergency grants scheme. 
How much of this grant has been used. 
If there is a surplus, will he consider its application as a matter of urgency to rural reconstruction which in New South Wales has come to a standstill because of inadequate Commonwealth finance. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will he make a statement to the House on the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare  and  the recommendations touching on the care and education of handicapped children; if so, when. 
If  a  statement  is  to be made, will he confer with the Leader  of  the House and arrange  for  the report  and its  important and  far  reaching recommendations  to  be debated in the House. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the New Zealand Apple and Pear Board has negotiated freight rates which, despite the recent 16 per cent increase, will represent a rate 50 cents a bushel cheaper than the rate applied by the shipping conference to apples and pears. 
If so, will he investigate the shipping conference price structure to establish how the differential occurs. 
I rise to support the amendment that is before the House of Representatives. Of course, anyone listening to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  would be forgiven for forgetting exactly what we are debating because he debated everything but the issue that is before the Parliament at this time. 
No,  Mr Speaker.  I understand that the obstruseness of some members is difficult to follow. I would not in any way reflect upon the Chair at any time. The amendment, of course, is designed to do one particular thing, namely, to ensure that there is some effective action before the Christmas period. This is the whole intent of this amendment. The Commonwealth Parliament has no business going into recess for2 months unless there is a definite assurance of action to stimulate the rural economy before Christmas. I am unimpressed with the dedication of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to this matter because, although it is his statement we are debating, we have not seen him. Indeed, for the most of this debate there has been one sole survivor of the Liberal Party ministry in the chamber and the most junior Minister, with due respect to my distinguished friend at the table, the Minister for Supply,  Mr Garland.  Even he was missing from the chamber for most of the time that the honourable member for Mallee was speaking. I do not blame him for that at all. I am pointing out that very little weight is being given to this matter of getting some action in the countryside before Christmas. There have been many interjections which I am quite interested to hear from the members on my left who comprise an interesting tribal rock musical and who say in chorus that there are no problems which are not being tackled and not being taken care of. I do not see it this way, and neither does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition or any other member of the Opposition. 
Last week in this House the Prime Minister and his team debated a motion that was designed to deal with the economy. We were assured for most of that day that there were no real problems with the economy; that there was nothing which was not being attended to or taken care of. We had question time 2 hours before the Prime Minister came into this chamber to make a statement on rural unemployment. In answer to a question at question time the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  indicated that there were no real worries and no real indication of any action being necessary. In fact, he specifically indicated that no action would be taken. But 2 hours later the Prime Minister sneaked in, unheralded and unannounced after the suspension of the sitting for lunch, and made a statement which, of course, was welcome, provided that it achieves something. But let us also be clear that all it really does is to provide some finance at some time in the future - perhaps in the new year - which will give jobs to one in four people who are employed in the country areas. That is all. If honourable members on my left are happy and content with that, then I wish them well when they go home for Christmas. When the statement, was made by the Prime Minister, I immediately sought an assurance that this House would not go into recess without debating the statement. I made it plain that my attitude on leaving the question of unemployment grants as unfinished business until next year was totally unacceptable to me and the colleagues with whom I sit on this side of the chamber. I might say that the only response we received was that perhaps arrangements might be made to debate the statement. So the motion, or the actual amendment, to be more precise,  Mr Speaker  - and I am always grateful for your guidance - that we are discussing today is the amendment which has come forward from the Opposition. 
Yes. Of course,  Mr Speaker,  you are exactly correct. I was referring particularly to the motion. When we come to discuss the motion and the amendment together, let us be quite clear that if it had not been for the demands of members of the Opposition this matter would not have come before the House at all before we adjourned. I want to draw attention to the realities of the situation as they exist at the present time. The Premier of New South Wales has been insistent that there should be a conference before Christmas - -before the Commonwealth Parliament adjourns and before the State parliaments adjourn - because he has said that in fact there is an urgent need for finance to relieve unemployment in New South Wales rural areas. He made that statement after the wheat crop virtually had failed. He made it as a plea, and he has not apologised for doing so. In this instance .the Premier of New South Wales had the unanimous support of the New South Wales Legislative Asembly - all members of all Parties; the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Australian Labor Party. So it is an indisputable fact that they are concerned but, of course, honourable members on the Government side in this Parliament do not seem to be concerned at all. The Premier of New South Wales has indicated that there is an urgent need for this sort of action. 
Let us just see what the Prime Minister said in his statement. He indicated that in co-operation with the State governments the Commonwealth already had provided massive assistance. Every State government in the Commonwealth has contested the Prime Minister's assessment of the situation. Every Minister in charge of rural reconstruction already has decided that the rural reconstruction scheme is in a hopeless situation and has halted. They have said that we need an urgent conference to get it going again. Do not forget that what we are referring to is rural unemployment. We are referring to a rural situation which is real. Honourable members opposite say that all that the members of the Opposition in the Federal Parliament are doing is drawing attention to difficulties. The difficulties have already been drawn to their attention without success at the present time, by every State government and by all the Ministers responsible for rural reconstruction, but all that honourable members opposite have said is: 'You are wrong and only we are right.' What an incredible situation. 
Let us refer to the Prime Minister's statement and to what prompted us to move this amendment. This is what the Prime Minister said: 
On  the assumption that these proposals will be acceptable in principle to the Premiers we shall require  to  bring forward  to  the House early,  in tho autumn session legislation to authorise the necessary grants to the States. Meanwhile, however, temporary arrangements will be made for the financing of the scheme in the interim. 
There is no undertaking as to what is to be done before the end of the year, before Christmas, and of course we are dealing with people and families who are suffering hardship. Those are not abstractions. This is not a sordid political party ploy. We are dealing with the realities of hardship and difficulty at the present time. The majority of the Premiers have called for action before Christmas. The Ministers in charge of rural reconstruction met in Melbourne. It is of interest to note that the Victorian Minister for Lands,  Mr Borthwick,  complained bitterly about the inflexibility of the rural reconstruction scheme and the difficulties associated with it. This was said. It is not suggested that the Government of  Sir Henry  Bolte is a radical Labor administration. The Victorian Government is complaining because even it concedes that there are really serious hardships at the present time. I have referred already to the position in New South Wales. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has spoken of the difficulties in Tasmania. In every State of the Commonwealth we have these problems, and of course they stem from the rural crisis. 
The interesting thing is that not only the Premiers and the Ministers in charge of rural reconstruction but also some of the really enthusiastic long term supporters of the Government are concerned about this matter. Let me quote what was said by  Sir Norman  Giles, who is head of the Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort complex. He is a long time supporter of the present administration. He said that the rural reconstruction scheme is becoming 'a dangerous flop'. The situation is that we face this crisis of confidence and collateral which the Prime Minister has done very little to dissipate. Let us also be clear that not only did he promise us some pie, inadequate pie, in the new year - only enough finance to provide jobs for one in four of the unemployed people in rural areas, and no date as to when the assistance will be provided has been given to this Parliament - but he also appeared on national television on Monday night of this week and announced and unveiled his plan for the future of the countryside. It should be mentioned today that the Prime Minister is going to move up to 14,000 wool growers which, of course, means that, including their families, 40,000 people will be affected. On the ratio of 1 to 4 in terms of producers to the people who serve them and support them in country areas, the number of people affected will approach 100,000. This is the number which the Prime Minister of this nation has decided should move out of rural areas. As a matter of fact, I put on the notice paper today a question in which I asked the Prime Minister whether he intends to move these people out in special refugee trains. I asked him, in particular, not to use sheep trucks because this would be adding insult to injury. I asked him whether he is going to set up refugee camps in the capital cities, because do not forget that all he has offered is a loan of $1,000, on terms to be determined, for those wool growers who have to go. This is the programme which the Prime Mini*ter unveiled last Monday night. If honourable members opposite like it, I say to them: 'You wear it'. But as far as we are concerned, we reject the Prime Minister and his philosophy. 
Of course, that is a compliment to the Prime Minister. He has not yet arrived. The next thing I must say is that we are talking of a crisis which is worse than it has been since the depression days. 
The honourable member for Paterson indicates that there are no difficulties in his electorate. By way of example let me refer to the city of Wagga Wagga. The total number of people registered as being unemployed in Wagga Wagga at the present time is 638. This is the highest figure in New South Wales, and I might say that it is the highest in 2 generations. I must also say to honourable members opposite who do not seem to go home very often that in many areas of New South Wales, in particular, there are no offices of the Department of Labour and National Service at which one can register as being unemployed. There are no offices at all between the Mumimbidgee and the Murray. So the unemployment figures have been underestimated quite dramatically. We have a situation where, at the end of this day, we are being asked to go home to our various electorates which have been in more trouble than for 2 generations as a result of this Government's policies and say to our electors that the Parliament was a bit too busy. The Prime Minister could not enter into the debate. He is not here. He has been missing. I do not know where he is. But certainly as this is his statement he should be here. 
Perhaps he is. I am sure that the right honourable gentleman will have a pleasant Christmas at home with his family, though he is only temporarily employed. I think that this is a very poor expression of the concern of the national Parliament. It shows that we at this time have little regard for this problem that is a real and harsh one. It seems to me that we live in a world of unreality. Supporters of the Government deny that any of these real problems exist and say that there is no reason why we should express our concern. I would have been ashamed to go home not having expressed my concern and not having asked for some action to be initiated before Christmas and before the end of the year. We will not meet until 22nd February of next year. But the unemployment- 
My distinguished colleague says: 'A wicked shame.' That is right. The people who will be unemployed will be saying just that. We are to be left suspended for  2b  months. We have had soothing tones from the Government as to what may or may not be done. But we have had no assurance 
I and my colleagues would be happy to sit the whole of next week to find out exactly what is intended, what we intend to do and what the plans are. Let us discuss them again. During the last 24 months, I have listened to some unholy rubbish debated over a long period in this Parliament. It was rubbish that is irrelevant to the realities of our national situation and the situation in our electorates. I resent the fact that tuy time was wasted. I resent the fact that we have not tackled the  Teal  problems of our community as they exist  at  the present time. The problem of the unemployed is not a passing one. The problem is not one that we can laugh at, joke about or pass off with little smart comments about what we may have done or we may not have done. I may say that this amendment was not introduced  in  a sense of carping criticism of the Government- 
My honourable friend from Sturt is a very blunt and forthright member. This is what he has said to me personally: 'I regard this proposal as totally inadequate. I do not stand with it at all'. What. I say to him is this: We have accepted it. He has accepted it. We have accepted  it  as a gesture. In conclusion, I say this- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 rise to second the motion for the suspension ot Standing Orders and 1 shall speak to that motion now. I do not intend to canvass the question of whether the ban should be raised or retained. I think I can put my case rather well as more than 50 per cent of all merino studs in the nation are located in the Riverina and 1 want specifically to bring to the attention of the House the dilemma which this Parliament should resolve by agreeing to the suspension of Standing Orders and by the debate which would then ensue. Tn the Riverina there are many great stud breeders. They face the dilemma of this Parliament, and the dilemma can be resolved only by the adoption of this motion to suspend Standing Orders to give Parliament the opportunity to debate this matter thoroughly, adequately and in depth. 1 draw attention to one facet of this problem, apart from my own involvement in representing half of all of the merino studs in Australia and namely, to the importance of this motion of the suspension of Standing Orders in relation to the position of stud breeders. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  many months ago said in this Parliament that it is important for the House of Representatives to come to a resolution on this matter. He said this against a background that the Australian Senate - the other half of this sovereign Parliament of the nation - had voted against the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams. The Leader of the Opposition on that occasion said that it was the perogative of the House of Representatives to debate this matter and to come to a resolution. He said that whatever was the resolution by a majority of the members of this House, of course he would be bound by it as would all other honourable members. I hope that that is clearly understood by all honourable members. What the Leader of the Opposition was saying and what I reiterate and what all members of the Opposition reiterate tonight is that the decision to rescind this ban which was imposed a generation ago was made administratively by the Government. It was rejected by one half of the sovereign Parliament of the nation. This half of the Parliament has nol yet had an opportunity to debate it or to vote upon it. This is the essential issue as has been pointed out by the distinguished and honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  who, like myself, has a deep and vested interest in the welfare of studs and the people who arc associated with them. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I did not hear the interjection of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  but I suggest that if he wants to speak you should give him the opportunity to do so because I should like to hear him on the subject. However I do not want to be misled by interjections at this stage. I simply say very quietly and positively that the members of the Australian Labor Party respect the sovereign right of the Parliament to determine these issues. We maintain that we have not yet been given the opportunity to debate in depth in the House of Representatives the issue of the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams. What we have said is that we would demand and ask for this right on behalf of all the people we represent. If the matter were resolved by a majority vote of the House of Representatives - gathered, I would hope, as a democratic body, free of petty Party allegiances on such an important matter - to lift the ban, it would be incumbent on all of us to see to it that  hz  ban was lifted. But of course if it were not the desire of this House - the sovereign House; the House of initiative in the Federal Parliament - to do this, obviously we would all be duty bound to suspend the judgment and to leave things as they are. 
I accept the interjection from my honourable friend on the other sids who asks: What do I want my breeders to do. He has interjected quite properly; I do not object, at all. I should like to address myself to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but 1 should also like to tell my honourable friend that my breeders have 2 voices on this issue. The very fine family of Killen has said that in no circumstances should this ban be lifted. On other occasions the management of the Uardry stud, which is one of the most distinguished studs in the nation and a very fine stud, said this ban should be lifted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, your charity is notorious, and I want to express my appreciation. You are quite right. I have finished my reply to the interjection. I did not want to feel that a member on the Government side had been left without an answer. But enough of that, I agree with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Having said that, let me return to the question of the importance of this motion to suspend the Standing Orders. If we, as the House of Representatives, are not going to agree to debate this question concerning the export of merino rams in depth, thoroughly and properly, obviously no decision can be made. Let us forget all the parties, let us forget all the party politics and let us forget all the normal confrontations in this Parliament. Let us just deal, for example, with the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
If I forget them, I understand that the honourable member for Mallee will remind me of them. All I wanted to say was this: We have a division of opinion in the nation on this question concerning the export of merino rams. We have a division of opinion in the Parliament. That division of opinion has already been enshrined in the resolution of the Senate - one-half of the sovereign Parliament of the nation of Australia. In our House we have not yet been able to reach a substantive decision. Of course, I realise that if honourable members opposite do not want to do anything about it. if they do not want to reach a substantive decision, if they want to hide for reasons best known to themselves, they will not vote for this motion. But the motion before the Parliament is to suspend Standing Orders to enable all of us in this Parliament - whether we happento be temporarily the Minister for Primary Industry or temporarily the member for Hume or the member for Riverina, it does not really matter-- 
Let us all recognise our fallibility and exposure to what might happen in the new year. I think that at this stage it is much more important that honourable members opposite should remember this than we on this side of the chamber. All I want to say in summation is that here we are asking for one-half of the sovereign Parliament - the House of Representatives - to make a decision on this question concerning the export of merino rams. We have not yet been permitted to do so. We have not yet been permitted to debate the question. We have not yet been permitted to vote on it. This is what my distinguished friend the honourable mem ber for Eden-Monaro says. He has not said that he is for or against the export of merino rams. He did not say that in his speech and I have not said that. 
I understand your tolerance,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on the eve of the Christmas break, but it is very nice to hear my friend the honourable member for Angas ask which way I would vote. May I say to the honourable member for Angas through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that if he finds his courage for once on behalf of the merino studs, as he did not find it on behalf of the wine grape growers, he can join us and I will tell him-- 
-I understand that you.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are protecting him and he needs protection. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, on the eve of Christmas your erudition is commendable, andI bow to it. As a matter of fact, I accept the opportunity to return to the point at issue. MayI summate. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro has moved that we should suspend Standing Orders to enable the House of Representatives - at least one-half of the sovereign Parliament of Australia - to come to a resolution on a very important matter. This is the purpose in moving for the suspension of the Standing Orders. What the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has said, and what I say as the member for Riverina representing more than one-half of the merino studs of Australia, some of whom are in a desperate plight as a result of the 
Government's policy - is: Let us have this opportunity for debate and for a vote to be taken, because the Government has an undertaking from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that if all members of the Parliament, democratically assembled without regard to party, favour or pressure, come to a decision on this question concerning the export of merino rams, then a i of us on all sides of the Parliament will  bc  duty bound to see that the flow of merino exports is continued, if that is desired, or that it is halted, if that is desired. What more democratic procedure could possibly be put forward? 
I am sure that when the honourable member lor Eden-Monaro rose in his place he looked back over a quarter of a century of democratic practice, or lack of it, in this Parliament. Surely what he was saying tonight echoed the words of the distinguished Leader of the Opposition, when he said: 'Whatever the Parliament determines we will try to fulfil'. What better could he say? What better earnestness of all our sincerity in this matter could be put forward? This is the earnestness and sincerity behind the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. I might say that if the Standing Orders arc suspended, as has been proposed, then what we will do- 
I am not, because I have confidence that perhaps there could be a change of heart and that in fact there will be an opportunity for me really to speak at length on this subject. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 appreciate your impartiality. I know that if you were not in the Chair you would vote for a democratic expression of opinion. But may I say this in summation? Let us vote for the motion to suspend Standing Orders. Let us have a debate on this question concerning the export of merino rams. Whichever way the vote goes I will pledge myself to implement the democratic decision of the House of Representatives on this controversial matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was it the usual practice in many centres in New South Wales for patients requiring blood tests to be charged $4 for the doctor's consultation and $2.50 for the blood test. 
Was it the usual practice for both charges to be recouped from medical benefit funds. 
Are charges for the blood tests themselves now being disallowed by funds. 
Has the change been made by, Government direction; if so, why. 
If the change was not made at Government direction will the Minister inquire into the present changed practice of the funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Health Authorities' study of new quarantine methods developed in New Zealand, to which the Minister referred in his statement of 21st September 1971, encompass the need for Australia to up-date its quarantine methods in line with the New Zealand initiative. 
When will Australia abandon its practice of using the United Kingdom to undertake our quarantine work and provide a similar establishment to New Zealand's off-shore quarantine station on Somes Island in Wellington Harbour. 
ls it a fact that adherence to outmoded practices is denying Australia access to urgently required new genetic material to improve our crop and stock production. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement in the newsletter 'So I'm Told', circulated under the name of John Burgess, Director. Textile Council of Australia, that fabrics being imported from China and purporting to be woollen piecegoods do not contain any wool at all but in fact, comprise 60 per cent viscose and 40 per cent polyamide 
If so will he examine the correctness of the Customs declarations accompanying the samples and the duty charged. 
If he has not seen the article, will he call for the newsletter, examine the charges and report to the Parliament the result of his examination. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Have brandy imports into Australia since June 1968 exceeded 800,000 proof gallons representing a loss lo Australian growers of $1.3m. 
Is the Australian taxpayer subsidising overseas grape growers to the extent of $3 per gallon. 
Has the quantity of brandy held in bond increased from 4.2 million gallons in June 1970 to S.8 million gallons in 1971; if so, is this situation a threat to the Australian wine grape industry. 
Has he ordered a tariff inquiry into the 15 per cent of the Australian brandy market which is represented by imports. 
If so, when will the inquiry commence and when can the report be expected. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has his Department made an assessment of the extent of the market for a combined butterfatvegetable oil spread in Japan. 
Can he say whether New Zealand already has exported successfully 100 tons of this combination. 
Have any Australian initiatives been taken; if so, when. 
If no initiatives have been taken, when can they he expected in view of New Zealand enterprise. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Did he' tell the National Press Club in Canberra on 1st November 1971 that the delay in the work of the Federal-States officials' committee on decentralisation established 6 years ago, which has yet to produce a definitive report, was not all the fault of the Commonwealth. 
Did he blame the relaxed attitude of some of the State governments for the delay. 
If so, which State governments are at fault and what have they failed to do. 
asked the Minister for  Primary Industry,  upon notice: 
Has the Australian Meat Board announced that the 1971 meat quota for the United States of America was 15,000 tons short. 
If so, can he say whether this quota has been re-allocated to other countries including Ireland' and New Zealand. 
Have cattle prices dropped in some instances by as much as $25 a head as a result of this short-fall in exports to the United States of America. 
Has the short-fall been the result of poor trading by Australia and inadequate initiative by the Meat Board. 
Has an inquiry been carried out as a result of the short-fall; if so, with what results. 
If an inquiry has not been carried out, will he initiate one immediately. 
asked  the  Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In view of the general statement, unsupported by detail, by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry on 10 November 1971 regarding imports of wool from New Zealand, will he now answer in detail question No. 4292 which I placed on Notice Paper on 29 September 1971. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How much of the Australian wool clip was processed in Australia in each of the last 10 years. 
What are the categories of processing. 
Is it a fact that fifty bales .of wool daily provide a continuity of work for 2,000 textile workers. ... 
What proportion of wool as against synthetics is used by the Australian textile industry. 
Is Australia presently importing wool, other than carpel wool, from New Zealand, 
What was the (a) quantity, and (b) value of these wool, imports last year and for this year to date. 
Is New Zealand offering ISO days credit for wool sales. 
Does this compare unfavourable with terms offered to Australian wool processors who are required to pay within IS days. 
Is this the reason for the successful penetration of the Australian market by New Zealand wool. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that throughout Australia there  irc  10,000 schoolchildren unable to participate in the free milk scheme because of distance and supply difficulties. 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement by the New South Wales Minister for Education indicating that 400 schools are not in receipt of free milk for those reasons. 
Is it a fact that the children denied free milk are in areas where because of remoteness they face dietary difficulties. 
Will he and the Minister for Health, review the position with a view to using citrus juice as an alternative to milk where milk supplies are not available to the disadvantaged children. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What Australian exports were covered in the pay-roll tax rebates which amounted to $49.356m in the last financial year. 
What were the values of these exports. 
What were the percentages of export income represented by these exports which attracted these rebates. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he slate on 30th September 1971 (Hansard, page 1723) that the Government has no right to dictate to the Reserve Bank how it should act and it would be impudent of the Government to attempt to do so. 
Does section 11 of the Reserve Bank Act provide that the Federal Executive Council may, by order, determine the policy to be adopted by the Bank. 
Did the Royal Commission on Monetary and .Banking Systems (Parliamentary Paper No. 74 of 1937, page 206) find that the Federal Parliament is ultimately, responsible for monetary policy and the Government of the day is the executive of Parliament, and it is the duty of the Bank to carry out the policy of the Government 
If so. does ha reject these powers and abdicate responsibility foc- their use in the national interest or was he unaware of them 
l( he was unaware of the powers, will he now use i hem when necessary in the community interest. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding him of his refusal of an Opposition request for a joint House committee to inquire into foreign investment in Australia. Will the Prime Minister reconsider his attitude in view of the Senate's defiance of his veto by the establishment of a Senate committee for this purpose and in view of the widespread desire of Australians generally to halt the sale of our remaining national assets? 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Have Commonwealth Government Departments and Agencies entered into contracts with advertising agencies. 
If so: 
how many contracts have been entered into; 
what agencies are involved; 
what is the value of each contract; and 
what was the subject of the advertising in each case. 
Which of the advertising agencies are - 
foreign agencies; and 
Australian owned. 
Can he say whether the law in the United States of America provides that the Government or its associated instrumentalities may not appoint foreign services in the form of advertising agents unless these services are absolutely unprocurable from an American source. 
If so, is he able to say whether the overall effect is lo prohibit the expenditure of American taxpayers' money otherwise than through American facilities. 
Can he say whether Ci,nada has excluded foreign agencies from participating in the bulk of the $20m spent annually by federal and provincial governments through their various operations. 
Will he explain the attitude of the Australian Government in this matter. 
[f the attitude of his Government is significantly different from that of the United Slates and Canada what is the reason. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did he reject my statement, in answer to a question without notice on 28th April 1971 (Hansard, page 2126), that 30 per cent of all Australia's company income is currently going overseas to service Australia's foreign debt. 
Did he advise me by letter on 7th June 1971 that the proportion of company income payable overseas has in fact risen to over 30 per cent in recent years. 
Did he further state that the immediate effect of overseas investment was, inter alia, to increase international reserves in the case of an inflow of cash. 
If so, will he list the sources of additions to our overseas reserves in the various locations in which they are held and the categories of investment which they, represent. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he referred my question without notice, relating to overseas ownership of pastoral and agricultural land as far as Commonwealth Territories are concerned, to the Minister for the Interior in accordance with his undertaking on 2nd April 1971 (Hansard, page 1417). 
If so, will he arrange for the information as to the extent and location of overseas ownership to be made available to the House and indicate the measures the Government is taking to prevent a sell-out of Australian land resources. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 2 million gallons of foreign wines have been imported into Australia since 1966-67. 
If so, does this represent a loss to Australian wine grape growers of approximately Sim at a cost of S80 per ton. 
From which countries have wine imports originated and what were the quantities in each case for the latest year for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say whether Australian entrepreneurs have been offered a range of incentives to establish enterprises in New Zealand. 
Can he also say whether incentives offered by the New Zealand Government surpass those offered by, the Australian Government lo industry to establish enterprises in cither town or country. 
If so, will he state the incentives made available by the New Zealand Government lo encourage the establishment of industry in New Zealand, including tourism, and will he compare them wilh Australian incentives. 
If the comparison is unfavourable, what action is proposed by the Government to bring Australia to at least parity with New Zealand. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What sum has the Commonwealth spent on encouraging oil and mineral exploration in Australia since the introduction of the present incentive scheme. 
What companies have been granted a subsidy and what sum has been paid to each company to date. 
What is the country of origin of each company which has been granted a subsidy. 
 It is on a somewhat dramatic change of subject that I rise to speak tonight. I have before me some interesting samples of synthetic meat. I have been distributing samples of synthetic beef, synthetic ham and synthetic chicken. I might say that I have not found any great enthusiasm for the samples. I am not sure of the opinion of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  but I invite him to be my guest. 
That is quite so; it does look revolting. I invited honourable members to sample these ersatz products, which I find poor and pallid substitutes for the genuine products. Be that as it may, the threat of synthetic meats to the Australian meat industry is a real one and action should be taken to protect the Australian public by having synthetic meat so labelled. 
The Rural Bank of New South Wales in its Trends' publication for December reported that the consumption of synthetic meat in the United States was, until recently, the equivalent of about IS per cent of the total imports of meat into the United States. It has now risen considerably beyond that figure, as I will show in a moment. The Bank also reported that substantial amounts of ersatz meat were now mixed with meat in a variety of processed meat products. In Japan, the consumption of ersatz meat amounts to 2 per cent of total meat consumption and it is increasing. In the Bank's report it is stated that: 
Tn Australia there already is on sale synthetic meat in the form of sausages, hamburgers, meat loaf and poultry, mostly in the canned form.  ls all this serious for the Australian meat industry? At the National Agricultural Outlook Conference in Canberra recently Colonel M. H. McArthur, chairman of the Australian Meat Board reported that in the United States last year production of substitute meat was now greater than the total meat imports. He called on meat producers to fight the spread of the ersatz product. In the Meat Board's annual report for last year there was a call for urgent action to prevent the word 'meat' being used to describe canned ersatz varieties. The Board asked for principles to be adopted, firstly, that the meat consumer is entitled to protection that what he buys is genuine; secondly, that the consumer should be informed if substances of vegetable origin replace any meat in the pack so labelled; and, thirdly, that no existing limitation of non-meat content should be permitted without appropriate changes in labels. 
Because of the concern of many people in the area I represent I raised in the first instance, on behalf of a branch of the United Farmers and Wool Growers Association at a little centre called Kikoira, this whole problem with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I did this on 24th November and I hold the Minister's detailed reply dated 16th December. When I received the samples of synthetic beef, ham and chicken, I again made writer representations to the Minister on 2 1st December and I made it generally known that I had taken this action and that these ersatz products had been brought in. Against all this background, imagine my astonishment when I found the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who, incidentally, I have had paged for the last 10 minutes or more, circulating in my electorate as well as in his own a statement which included the following passages. 

 Mr Grassby, the Federal member for Riverina, is being completely untruthful when he said he had protested to the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, M.P., about the present use of synthetic meat. 
He then went on to describe the whole problem as 'insignificant'. I find it incredi ble that be should brush aside the worry and concern of the Meat Board and of the industry generally, but if he says that if is his view not to worry about synthetic meats, he is entitled to bis opinion. But, he is not entitled to rush into print with serious allegations reflecting on my personal integrity. I have spoken personally to the member and 1 said this to him. He also knows 1 have the evidence which completely refutes his statement in the copies of the letters circulated and the reply which I received from the Minister for Primary Industry. I am sorry that the honourable member for Hume is not in the chamber. He may have been detained; I do not want to do him an injustice. However, I put it on record tonight that it would be the right and honourable thing for him to do to withdraw his published and circulated statement that I was being completely untruthful' in referring to representations which 1 had made to the Minister for Primary Industry. The only untruth was the statement which he published and it should be withdrawn. As an honourable member I invite him to do so. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Can bt say whether guest workers from Greece, Italy, Spain, Egypt and other countries employed in West Germany (a) contribute in the same way, as Germans to the compulsory German superannuation fund and (b) are entitled in the same way as German nationals to (i) German pensions when they reach retirement agc and (ii) invalid pensions, widows' pensions and payments to orphans in case of the death of the breadwinner. 
ls it a fact that a substantial number of guest workers to Germany have emigrated to Australia. 
If so, can he say whether they have come in the belief that their social security rights earned in  Germany  can be transferred to Australia. 
Have many of these migrants who came to Australia to stay, returned to their countries of origin as a result of the Australia's denial of pensions reciprocity. 
Will he obtain the text of the Social Security Agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Dominion of Canada from either the German Embassy or the Canadian High Commission. 
Will the Government take steps to initiate a similar agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany, and other migrant supplying countries and Australia. 
As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Paterson)  indicated, this Bill has the support of the Opposition, particularly because we believe in improved marketing initiatives for primary products and, indeed, for all products rather than the current policy which we have had for so long of cutting back and which I have categorised as economic nihilism. The Government has been singularly successful in the dairying industry in its policy of cutting back. Indeed, the Government was so successful that in the course of last year we came within one week of having to import butter for our own tables and for our own purposes. This Bill appears before the House of Representatives against the background of our having to go to Ireland, New Zealand and perhaps to Europe to buy the basic materi als to keep our recombining plants going in Asia, lt is rather ironical when we consider that these plants were an initiative to help us dispose of so-called surpluses. Certainly, they have been a success in many ways. They have shown a profit and I agree with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that this is so. They have had difficulties, but that is to be expected in trade and commerce. However the main point is that they have been able to take new initiatives and open in neighbouring countries new trade doors which we badly needed. There is no doubt that the recombining plants have been a success for many purposes, not only for the dairying industry. As I say, it is ironical that they were set up because it was assumed we would have a surplus and that we would continue to have a surplus. 
In fact, because of the policies which have prevailed and the cut backs which have been practised, we have to go to other countries to buy the materials to keep our own plants going. That was the situation last year and it is the situation at the present time. There is no doubt in my mind that the dairying industry has been one of the most maligned industries in this country. Even now, it is suggested that it really has no place, that it would be better if it were wrapped up and perhaps phased out. This image has to be overcome. I say with a considerable amount of pride that there is an efficient industry in the southern Riverina. It is an industry that is so efficient that if it were decided to indulge in unrestricted free trade, perhaps between New Zealand and Australia, the southern Riverina and many other efficient dairy areas would out-produce in efficiency and effectiveness the New Zealanders. That is a brave claim to make but it can be sustained. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  says that it is rather a stupid statement. It is interesting to look at the figures we have taken out and with which we are satisfied. We are not suggesting that this should be done and we are not putting it forward as a proposal. I am putting that statement forward on the basis that our efficiency can be demonstrated. The comparisons are not by any means odious to our own industry. 
One of the points 1 want to stress again is that the malignment of the dairying industry is completely unjustified. Of course, there are areas in the dairying industry which need adjustment. This is a matter of technological change which is necessary in the interests of the people in the industry. But this is not the picture of the industry as a whole. One of the points that should be made in relation to these recombining plants is that they have been operated on a basis which gives self respect to the local populations in Indonesia and in the other Asian nations where they have been established. It not only gives these people an opportunity to gain self respect and a knowledge of trading practices, but also to be a partner and ultimately own the means of production. This is very satisfactory. It is the antithesis of a colonialism with which we want no part. 
It is impossible at this stage to see ahead very clearly unless there is more clear decision made by government as to the future and the extent of the dairying industry. For example, it is no use our expanding these initiatives unless the materials are available to supply the recombining plants. Therefore, there is a need for decision at this level. At the present time, we have potential buyers from all parts of the world whom we are knocking back. They are prepared to pay top prices for our butter, cheese, milk powder, casein and our canned milk. But we do not have the material for them. We have been able, through the successful practice of economic nihilism, to manage not to have anything available for sale. If Australia is an exporting country and the dairying industry is an export orientated industry, it is obvious that we must make some decisions about the availability of the basic materials. 
An interesting contradiction exists between Government policy and the attitude of some overseas firms which have penetrated the dairying industry. It is rather interesting to find that there is a growing concern about foreign involvement in the manufacturing sector of the Australian dairying industry. British, 
United States and Swiss companies in particular have long held pretty substantial stakes in the manufacture and marketing sectors. Until recently, this foreign involvement was reasonably stable. But a considerable movement has taken place. The biggest dairy company in Europe has made its appearance in Victoria. It is about to buy itself a substantial share in Australia's dairy produce manufacture. It might be asked: Why would that company do that? After all, the picture that has been painted in this Parliament and across the countryside is that the dairying industry in Australia faced a mountain of butter in Europe. Unaccountably that mountain of butter melted rather rapidly. A picture of world surplus was painted. Why would the biggest dairy company in Europe come 12,000 miles to Australia to establish itself here? Let us look at the contrast of its assessment of the situation and the present Government's assessment of the situation. The head of the firm is  Sir James  Barker. The firm is called Unigate. It is based in England. I do not know the details of its share holding, but that is its headquarters at the moment. It is one of the biggest dairy and grocery chains in the world. He came to Australia to ask us to produce more. He asked us not to cut back production. This was his message. 
If the Minister is interested in the details of his message, he can see me afterwards and I can arrange for him to have the full statement.  Sir James  Barker was talking about basic dairy materials. Let me quote his own words. He said, in relation to the world shortage of dairy products that he could not see what will bring about a change in the situation. He said that there was no sign at all anywhere in the world of surplus dairy production. It might be said that here is a foreign enterprise that has come in and is anxious to get its hands on some Australian production. 
It has, in fact, just arrived in a major way in the Minister's State. My main point about tins- 
I do not mind the interjections from the Minister for Shipping and Transport because 1 know he is very interested in this matter. Is he saying to me that there has been no major new investment in the dairying industry in his area by this firm? 
Of course he is not. The point 1 made is accepted. The main additional point 1 wish to make is that this assessment by this new dominant figure in the Australian dairy scene is that there will be a continuing demand for dairy product. We have seen the enterprise of the French in our area of the world, particularly in Asia. What was his assessment there?  His  assessment there was that they would not have the continued production to be able to compete in a major way in Asia because the French have a programme in France of cutting the throats of cows. 
It has been suggested that the European programme for agricultural reorganisation has come to a standstill. I have had the privilege of working in agricultural areas in Europe. The attempt to equate European agriculture with Australian agriculture is absurd. In many cases, you are faced with strip farming and subsistence farming with no economic base of production. It is not suggested that the governments of Europe and the expanded Common Market will allow that to continue. Of course, they have allowed it to continue so far. But they are now in the process of changing this. If they do not, the people will leave the industry anyway because there has been a dramatic revolution in the European countryside in terms of the way of life. The young people will not be tied to a bunch of sterile cows. So changes are taking place in the European scene of which we have to be aware. 
Let us take a look at the penetration of the Australian food industry by overseas interests. Twenty of the top 40 Australian store commodities are now reported to be dominated by foreign capital. Another 8 have a large majority' of overseas money behind them. We have seen this happen in relation to cheese, margarine and ice cream and we will continue to see more and more of this penetration. At the present time, where co-operatives are operating successfully and find themselves confronted with international and multinational corporations, they are in considerable difficulty because they have not the great range of capital available to them. They have not much capital at all, let alone a range of it. But. of course, a multi-national corporation has a great deal of financial strength. It would not be here if it did not. It comes with a pocketful of money. The Government has to face up to the existence of this body. The Government, if it is the responsible government of this country, has to say what happens when this confrontation takes place. Does the Government just ignore the situation? Does it allow the co-operatives and other segments of Australian industry to be sold up or does it invite the participation of the foreign interests and enjoy their expertise but prohibit the selling out or the taking over of Australian assets? This is a question that has been asked and the Government has to find some answers. 
The Opposition has its ' principles pretty clear and definite about these things. I suggest that the Government cannot put off very much longer a number of decisions in regard to the dairy industry. One of these is what the Government's attitude is as a national government when independent segments of the industry are being confronted by multi-national corporations. Has the Government an attitude? If so, what is it? We are talking about combining plants and initiatives in Asia. Have we in fact a policy of maintaining a basic supply of materials which will enable those plants to continue? I ask this because the Government's policy is to reduce still further - to cut back. This is the only public statement that has been made. This is the understanding of the industry. 
If individual members of the Government do not agree with it I am very much heartened. But I think that they should make their views more widely known. 
Order! There is no point of order. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, you know that this was not really a point of order. The Minister is being rather disorderly. I forgive him, of course, because he must be one of the guilty men if these things are not corrected. Therefore I invite him, if he has views which are nef in accord with those of the Government, to fight for those views. We will give hint every support and encouragement to stand with the independent Australian dairy industry. 
Against this background we are discussing this Bill. The questions that I pose have to be answered. The .honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was pretty clear on our behalf .that we wanted to see. an extension of trade and commerce, and new initiatives in those 2 spheres. 
I am- not sure the Government is happy to have the Minister, because he is coming forth as a little rebel. I am delighted to see it. The Minister can join us any time. Turning away temporarily from the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I would like to say that the main point is that we are' faced with this situation of reduction in basic supply. This reduction has cost us export orders. That fact is known and accepted. We have lost orders because we do not have the production. The future is uncertain because of the Government's policy of wishing to further reduce and cut back the dairy industry. If the Government has another policy let it tell us what that policy is. Let the Government explain it. I might say in passing that there has been a great deal of concern that the cheese bureau which is wanted by the industry, and which was proposed by the industry, seems to have been discouraged by the Government, perhaps because the Government does not believe that cheese either has a future. 
This is a very serious matter for an industry that produces a great deal of employment and provides a sound basis for towns and country cities and is a valuable export industry. Only the other day it became pretty obvious that we were not able to fulfil our obligations to the British market. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that by a masterly Government plan we had diverted material away from Britain into other spheres. I would like to think that that was so. But in fact that is not the position. We did not and could hot supply the British market to the full extent that was desired because we did not have the material. We needed it for ourselves, to supply ourselves. Had we supplied Britain we would have been importing butter this year. That is the situation and it is not a credit to the Government that we have reached this state of affairs. 
The one thing that we must say now,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is that the ball is clearly with the Government. The Govern: ment has created the situation. It has caused us to face a crisis of supply for our traditional markets, for. our new markets and indeed for the tables at home. We say that these things have to be resolved. We feel that the new trade initiatives which have been spoken of by the honourable member for Dawson command, or should command, the highest priority. On that basis I support the legislation. I am looking forward very much to the perhaps incipient rebels on my left standing in their places and giving us some support for an industry which has been much maligned and which needs some champions at this time. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Are the waters of the Murrumbidgee River as far downstream as its entry to Burrinjuck Dam pure enough for domestic use? 
Is the Burrinjuck Dam being used as a tertiary sewage treatment facility by Canberra authorities? 
Does the sewage discharge at Weston Creek Works amounting to15 cusecs constitute a large proportion of the Murrumbidgee River flow? 
Does the water improve in quality after ponding and storage and is the Burrinjuck Dam therefore being used as a sewage treatment facility? 
If so, will be take steps to avoid the use of the Dam for this purpose in view of its primary function to store water for domestic use and irrigation? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What area of land is owned by Aborigines, in Territories under the control of the Commonwealth, either as individuals or associated groups. 
What are the categories of ownership and what percentage do they represent of the total land available in (a) the Northern Territory and (b) the Australian Capital Territory of land for (i) housing, (ii) farming and grazing, (iii) industrial purposes and (iv) service enterprises. 
Before I address the House during the adjournment debate this evening I should like to establish whether there is a Minister in charge of the House. I am delighted to see that the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  is in charge of the House tonight. 1 think it is important that there should be a Minister in charge to hear what I have to say, and I am grateful for his alacrity. It is a measure of the peculiarities of Australian government that today in our country the standard refund under our so-called national health scheme for consultations or confinements is 80c. This incredible fact applies to the major medical and health funds when they deal with the Bush Nursing Association of New South Wales. This is the flat rate applicable. Can there be anything more ludicruous in east or west than the categorisation of confinements as worth 80c? But this is part of the great and sad anomaly of government attitude to the bush nurses who have served for 2 generations in small distant country centres. 
I am informed that some medical and some hospital benefit funds refuse to pay for any treatment at all at the bush nursing centres. I raise the matter tonight and ask the Minister for Supply, who is at the table, directly to raise with the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  the legality of funds refusing to pay for treatment that is carried out at these essential centres which have served so well for 2 generations. It certainly cries for an investigation and reply. But perhaps all these silly anomalies were only irritants in days when the rural half of the nation was prosperous, but tonight the story is different. We have rural troubles, we have hardship, and the bush nurse is more important than ever before. I have the privilege of having 4 bush nursing centres situated in the Riverina. They are located at Darlington Point. Moulamein. Tullibigeal and Weethalle. All of them face a crisis. I have made directly and personally to the Minister for Health 9 different submissions. So far no action has resulted. The tragedy in human terms is considerable. 
The only support given by government to bush nursing is a subsidy of $18,000 which has remained unchanged for nearly 20 years. This subsidy from the Government of New South Wales goes to the headquarters of the Bush Nursing Association in Sydney and is then divided up across the countryside. While the New South Wales Minister for Health is con.idering improving this tiny contribution, the crisis continues. One district nurse has lost her car; there is no money to maintain it. Yet in one centre alone last year more than 3,000 patients were treated, more than 1,300 miles were travelled and 371 babies were attended to. One nurse is relying on lifts or the use of a bicycle. But it is sometimes necessary to undertake round trips of up to 100 miles. That would be an awfully long bicycle ride. It would be a long wait for a mother who has a baby waiting to be born. As my own mother would have put it, I would not like to be hanging from the heels for the whole of that time. 
It may be asked what is the involvement of the Commonwealth. The involvement is direct and pertinent, These centres treat up to 300 and 400 pensioners every year and the Commonwealth, which pays doctors, which pays chemists - not much, it is true - and which pays hospitals refuses point blank to pay the bush hospitals, which is what these bush nursing centres are. The Commonwealth makes no payment at all. It ignores this aspect of the care of pensioners. But if these centres were to close down the Commonwealth would be faced with a tenfold rise in the money to be found. The Board of the Base 
Hospital at Griffith has been investigating what would be the position if the Darlington Point centre were to close. Instead of several hundred pensioners being treated on the spot and kept at home, they would have to travel 20 miles to Griffith and, in many cases, would have to be admitted to the hospital there. Yet the Griffith Hospital has a bed shortage on many occasions. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  in his last advice to me. said: 
The only legislation administered by the Commonwealth Minister for Health under which financial assistance could be provided to the association by the Commonwealth appears to be the Home Nursing Subsidy Act. The Home Nursing Subsidy Scheme commenced in 1956 with the basic objective of providing special Commonwealth assistance in the establishment of new home nursing organisations or the expansion of organisations which were already in existence in 1956. i have ascertained that an application for subsidy under the Act was made by, the NSW Bush Nursing Association to my Department last year. However, this application was unsuccessful because the number of nurses then employed on a full-time basis did nol exceed the number so employed at the commencement of the Scheme on 30 September 1956. 
That is a magnificent example of bureau.cratese - an ugly word, but an ugly decision, too. I have no doubt that it is the reason for the refusal, but it is so much rubbish in relation to the needs of country people. The bush nursing centres do not even receive recognition for the drugs they supply free. They are a subsidy to the mighty Commonwealth Government; they really are. These little centres, which are voluntarily supported, are subsidising the Commonwealth Government, which has an annual budget of $1 0,000m. It is true that there is a charge of $1.30 for a consultation and that the maximum charge is $2.30. But contrast that with the general charges. Doctors speak highly of the scheme. Local committees in the Riverina area and in all the States have worked for 50 years to keep the centres going. The base and district hospitals look in trepidation at their threatened closure as the needs of the people are obvious. 
I make a request tonight to the Minister for Health, firstly, to recognise the bush nursing centre as an approved place for the treatment of pensioners under the national health scheme - it is obvious that that should be done; secondly, to take action to ensure that all medical and hos pital funds properly recognise the treatment given - let us end the 80c charge for a confinement; and, thirdly, to ensure that there is adequate Commonwealth compensation for the thousands of Aborigines treated over the years. In many of these places there are substantial Aboriginal populations and these Aborigines are treated there. I understand that some gesture is made in this respect, but I am asking tonight for an assessment and an investigation of the range of treatment given and for recognition by the Commonwealth, which does not seem to be adequate in the third category that I have mentioned tonight. If the Commonwealth acted properly and rightly and took these steps it would remove the crisis and save the bush nurse. If nothing is done these centres will be lost, the people will suffer, some will die, the district and base hospitals will be embarrassed and the Commonwealth will have to find a large sum of money, which it is not now required to find, for the treatment of these people in public hospitals and other State supported institutions. So I appeal to the Minister and the Government in the name of common sense and humanity Vo end the crisis facing the bush nursing centres at this time. 
There is  a  final point of clarification that should be put. 
I wish to direct a question to you,  Mr Speaker,  seeking information. 
 I am seeking clarification of what you have said. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  The dilemma at present is that located in the Senate is a Minister who is directly represented in the House of Representatives by a Minister on the front bench. At the same time an Assistant Minister assisting the Minister in the Senate is located here. We are concerned with what should be the correct procedure in relation to matters that are raised by an Assistant Minister. Is it proper to refer questions to the Minister on the front bench representing the Minister in another place or is it proper to refer such questions to the Assistant Minister? In this House we have 2 persons concerned with the one portfolio and there is considerable confusion. I think the position should be clarified. 
I rise perhaps as a glaring example of the Australian shirt industry. I am happy to bow to receive that accolade twice bestowed on me earlier. 1 do not think there is any need for Australia to apologise for its shirt industry but I feel that we should avoid taking a simplistic view of it, the view that it should be either wiped out or retained without question. I addressed a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry, who is still  Mr Anthony,  about the Australian knitted and woven shir's industry. He said in reply that half of the fibres used in Australian shirts represented an Australian product, and half of that represented wool and cotton. I would hope for us to do a little better than that. Nevertheless, it was a brave attempt by the Minister to give me some information and I accept it. 
However, in regard to the style and presentation of our apparel there is no need for the Australian industry to apologise for the flair and dash it employs. I do not apologise myself. I need only to make a comparison between myself as a protectionist and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  as a free trader to demonstrate that he has a long way to 120 fo catch up. Having spoken perhaps in lighter vein I want now to draw attention to a particular matter which seems to have been overlooked in this debate; that is (he tendency for Government supporters to speak around the countryside like free traders and to go to the city and speak like protectionists, or even like members of the Australian Labor Party. 
This seems to me to be a rather inadequate approach to the problem created by our tariff policy for our export industries located in the country. This should be recognised and there is no reason why it should not be recognised in a constructive way. We have considered some of the ways in which the possibilities of export industries could be treated. One approach has been to deal with tariff compensation. When that subject is mentioned in the conservative circles of the Government there is either a complete unawareness of what is involved or it is regarded as completely radical and unacceptable. Our export industries have to compete across the world wilh world parity prices; in other words, our export industries in the countryside have to get what they can for their products on the world's markets, and when they have to buy what they need within the tariff barrier which is built, for the great national reasons outlined so masterfully by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  this evening and on the previous occasion when this Bill was before the House and the Committee, there has to be a recognition of what is needed to ensure that they are in a position of competitiveness. There is a need for the tariff structure for great national reasons associated with our development, our migration programme and our full employment policy. The conflict with rural export industry is obvious. How is it to be resolved? 
I suggest to the Committee that instead of adopting rigid and ritualistic attitudes we should be looking for flexibility to counter the cost disability met by our export industries. In fact, we should be looking at tariff compensation. When I mention this subject there is an immediate reaction from conservative Government members that it is something that has not been tried, is unproven and therefore should not be entertained. But it has been done by New Zealand in relation to some of its export industries and in relation to some of its primary industries which are aimed at export markets. New Zealand has already taken this step. 
In an endeavour to establish that the Government was aware of New Zealand's action I addressed a question to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I asked whether New Zealand primary producers aiming at the export markets had been able to receive some of their cost inputs at prices 50 per cent lower than those paid by primary producers in Australia. The Minister agreed. He went further and gave me not only the detail but also the drill employed in New Zealand to bring about that result. This is tariff compensation and it applies to a whole range of chemical inputs used in New Zealand's horticultural industry. 
Since 1969 New Zealand has had a system which has enabled its primary producers who are exporting their products to get their raw materials, their input materials, at 50 per cent of the cost applying in Australia and the cost that would have applied in New Zealand had the tariff compensation system not been adopted. This is tariff compensation at its best, used in New Zealand since 1969. I had become used to thinking of New Zealand as always being at least one step behind us. This is no longer so in many directions, and certainly not so in the field of tariff compensation. 
We have in this debate been discussing shirts as if they were the one peg on which we could hang our entire tariff policy, particularly in relation to our export industries. This is not nonsense. In fact, if we do not preserve flexibility of approach we will be doing a disservice to every industry in the nation and to Australia as a whole. 1 want to make this one final point: Never let us forget that Australia and Argentina were 2 similar nations. They both started off about 30 or 40 years ago on a path which led Argentina to continue its economic dependence and Australia to lesser economic dependence and with some hope for the future. The great difference between the paths taken by the 2 countries rests on how we use the tariff to promote our independence economically and to promote our industries and employment. We have to meet the challenge of whether we destroy what we have - and this is the point that has been made by my colleagues - or whether in fact we look ahead in a way which will plan better for the future. We believe that if we do not destroy what we have we will plan better for the future. In the meantime let us apply ourselves to tariff compensation where it is necessary for our export industries. 
I draw attention also to one other aspect of tariff administration, that is, the matter which I raised with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  not too long ago in relation to material that comes into our country. I drew the Minister's attention to material that was coming into Australia, the description of which had been challenged. I refer to woollen piece goods. Woolen " piece goods' was a description used for materials that were imported into this country, and the Minister, after he had looked into the question, said that the material was 60 per cent viscose and 40 per cent polymide. Fortunately, nobody bought that parcel. But let us be quite clear about some of the other parcels of material that have come in, also labelled as woollen piece goods. According to the Minister for Customs and Excise - and I am grateful to him for the information - 2 of the parcels of goods were properly invoiced, in terms of the customs law. as 45 per cent wool and 55 per cent polyester. But they were still described as woollen piece goods. The Minister has said that in relation to customs law this is legal. But I think we have reached the time when we should be looking at the labelling on parcels of material coming into our country to see that they specifically describe what those parcels contain. To say that it is wool when only 45 per cent is wool is. in my book, just not good enough, and I make that point while the Minister is present in the chamber. 

 Mr KELLY (Wakefield)- by leave-  i  want to make 3 brief commendatory remarks about the Government, the Tariff Board and the protective system, and to say that in some cases the system can work well. I refer briefly to pipe fittings, which are one of the items on the schedule. This matter was mentioned previously, T think, by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  A very serious position obtained before the Board's inquiry when a 75 per cent rate of protection applied in the pipe fittings industry. The duty seemed to be imposed only to protect the industry against competition from within the industry. It was a very serious restrictive trade practice arrangement which completely forbade competition from within the Australian sector of the industry and made it very difficult for those merchants who were trying to import pipe fittings in competition with what was nothing more or less than an Australian ring. Pipe fittings from other countries were kept out ot Australia by the operation of the ring. 
This was a very heavy burden for the rural sector to bear, particularly those people who used malleable iron pipe fittings. 1 congratulate the Board on spelling out the position so clearly for all of us to understand. The industry continued in its comfortable and fragmented way for years. The Tariff Board has recommended - and the Government has accepted the recommendation - a gradual reduction in the rate of duty in order to give the industry time to adjust, and 1 congratulate both the Board and the Government on doing this. The same comment can be made about the Tariff Board's report on steam engines. The rates of duty on steam engines had been in existence for far too long. Some of them had been in existence since 1934. Very high rates of 55 per cent or. 50 per cent with primage were applied to some steam engines. Obviously, thu steam engine industry has a very great advantage locally because it lives close to its market. The Board recommended duties of 25 per cent and 15 per cent, and I again congratulate the Board and the Government. 
I turn now to the very interesting Tariff Board report on mining and metallurgical machinery. This industry really is in the big league; it supplies a very big market. The industry is controlled by the Heavy Export Machinery Association, which is commonly called HEMA. The industry supplies big mining machinery to the market in Australia and obviously it hopes that in the future it will be able to supply the overseas market. The industry - rather foolishly, I should think - requested what seemed to be very high rates of duty. The Tariff Board, 2 years ago, recommended rates of general duty of 20 per cent and 30 per cent and said to the industry: 'This is the level of protection you will get. You will have to sort yourself out. Those sections that are good will be able to live on that rate, expand and export'. The Government accepted the Tariff Board's advice, and I congratulate HEMA on the way in which it has accepted the advice. HEMA is growing up as a group. It now realises that it cannot continue to load the exporting sector with these very heavy rates of duty which the industry has been asked to carry and which HEMA wanted the industry to carry before the Tariff Board brought down its report. HEMA realises too, I hope, that there is hope for export. This is where the industry's expansion will come from. Again I congratulate the Board and the Government. 
Finally I refer to the Tariff Board report on plastic products. This is an old hobbyhorse of mine. I particularly refer to proposals Nos. 18 and 24. They both adopt, as their authority for the change in the rate of tariff, a Tariff Board report. One proposal was dated 23rd August and the other 10th November, yet there was only one Tariff Board report. The history of this matter is that obviously the Department of Customs and Excise or the Department of Trade and Industry - I do not know which one - made a mistake. I am not being critical of the department concerned in any way for making a mistake in this very difficult field. What happened was that on 24th August the duties on some of these pipe fittings from New Zealand were reduced from 25 per cent to 5 per cent. On 17th August, according to the documents I have in front of me, the duties on some goods were increased from 5 per cent to 25 per cent. I repeat that I am not critical of the mistake which has been made, but I am critical of the fact that Australian importers saw that the rate followed the Tariff Board's report and said: 'This is going to be the rate'. They then ordered these fittings from New Zealand, but before the fittings could be imported into Australia the duty was raised suddenly to 25 per cent again, which meant that the importers were caught out. It had ordered in good faith but the duty was suddenly increased. In a case like that I think that some restitution should have been made. 
Turning to the Tariff Board's report on plastic products one sees that it is of 250 pages. This is a real problem area caused by the basic protection given to the chemical industry which itself faces 2 basic problems: Firstly, there is not enough throughput to achieve really economic protection; secondly, because of the high protection, or too high projection, in the past there has been too much duplication of plant. So you do not get the results you could if you had a sounder system of protection. I do not say that the chemical industry is not in many cases efficient. I do say that in many cases it is not economic. This has placed a very grave burden on those who make plastic products. It is worth remembering that, roughly speaking, there are 10 times as many people employed in the making of plastic products as there are in making the granules from which those products are made. This means that employment in the plastic products industry is jeopardised by the high protection for the original chemical industry. There is no doubt that this is important. 
I W111 give a list of the kind of things that are affected - I am sure that my Country Parly colleagues will be interested in this - whose prices are made much higher because of this system of protection. They are plastic wool packs, haystack and farm machinery covers, silo lining, covers for dried fruit, poultry blinds, netting for fruit trees, roofing for greenhouses, mulching film, strawberry punnets, ear tags, fertiliser bags, agricultural drainage pipe and - I think the chief of the whole lot - polythene pipe. I am not the pin-up boy of the wine industry at the moment. The other day 1 went to look at a new vine plantation of 400 acres that is being irrigated by a very interesting technique, drip feed, evolved in Israel. It depends on the usage of polythene pipe. I saw the owner of the vineyard coming and 1 left rather hurriedly because 1 was frightened that he was going to ask me what is the actual cost that the present system of protection imposes on that vineyard. This is the kind of thing that we ought to remember. 
So that honourable members do not think it is just me, the honourable member for Wakefield, talking about these important costs, let me quote 2 people whom 1 suppose we recognise as business leaders and who would not be regarded as rabid protectionists. I refer to  Sir Ian  McLennan of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and  Mr Clarkson  of Metters Ltd. One would not expect them to be rabid free traders either, as I am supposed to be. During an interview last year  Sir Ian  McLennan was questioned about development in the defence industry. He said: 'I was staggered at the disadvantage which plastics are under because of the tariff. This is because the raw material is made here. The protection given to the locally manufactured raw material jeopardises employment in the plastic products industry. It jeopardises the use of the products on the farm and in industry. (Extension of time granted.) 
I will take the opportunity to hammer the point home. Far too often we hear a chorus from both sides of the chamber, and the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  has just said it, that secondary industry is our greatest employer of people. That is not so. Only 27 per cent of the work force is employed in secondary industry. Most of our people are employed in tertiary industry, as is the case in every developing country in the world. The point we must realise - this is not just economic theory; it appears in statements by people like  Sir Ian  McLennan and  Mr Clarkson  - is that the plastic products industry is under a disadvantage because of the tariff on the raw material concerned. We must realise that employment in the plastic products industry is jeopardised always by the high protection given to the base  Taw  material. It is no good saying: 'Let us raise the tariffs on the products that are made from the base raw material'. As soon as you do that you come up against the competition from glass, paper or some other material. You also come up hard against the increased costs that are passed on to the exporter in the way I have mentioned. 
I am glad to see my Country Party colleagues listening so intently, because this is the message 1 have for them: It is not good enough to say that tariff protection automatically creates employment. In many cases it jeopardises employment. I repeat that it clearly does this in the chemical industry. The employment opportunities in the plastic products industry are limited indeed because of the high protection that is imposed on the raw materials at the chemicals stage. I repeat, because I am thought to be a bit over-enthusiastic about this on some occasions - although I find that hard to believe - that  Sir Ian  McLennan and  Mr Clarkson  were both staggered at the disadvantage which plastics are under because of the tariff. So when we talk about tariffs in this chamber do not let us say  that  employment is created by high tariff protec tion. In many cases it is jeopardised. I asked for an extension of time so that I could spell that out again. 
This Bill comes before the House at this time because of a peculiarity in the Reserve Bank Act which makes it mandatory that advances for such purposes as wheat sales must be repaid within 12 months. This is an outdated provision, lt is unreal and should be altered. The only purpose it serves is to provide the Government with an opportunity for grandstanding to the countryside. By doing this the Government does a disservice to the rural half of the nation, because the Government's Ministers and many of its supporters give an impression that this is some kind of handout to the wheat industry and that the sums of money involved are somehow a subsidy to another struggling rural industry. This is just not true. The Australian wheat industry pays its way. The one big production year which frightened the Federal Government into imposing quotas - through the back door of these advances - was 1968-69. The Parliament should realise, and the nation should know, that the wheat growers in that pool faced an interest bill of $25m or 5c a bushel. It should also be remembered that since it took office the Government has nearly doubled the rate of interest from  3i  per cent to the 5i per cent announced in the Bill before the Parliament at the present time. That is despite the fact that the money in the rural credits development fund is simply the profits from the Commonwealth Bank that are earmarked for rural development. So it should be clear that the Commonwealth is, as usual, extracting its pound of flesh. 
The Government has bowed to some common sense this year and agreed to lift the national quotas. But I think it is about time we reviewed the operation of quotas - the quotas which flow from the predecessor to this legislation or the quotas which are set nationally by this Government by its control of advances to the Australian Wheat Board. It is not so long ago that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board,  Mr Jack  Cass, warned about the dangers of facing a shortage of wheat. He estimated last year - that is, a year ago - that if the Board made its sales to China we could end last season with a carry over of 1 19 million bushels. He was blunt about saying that 119 million bushels was far too low. He did not know how low it was going to be. The New South Wales Minister for Agriculture went further and described the carry over as dangerously low. The  Chairman  of the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales,  Mr Rod  Black, has also expressed concern about dangerously low carry overs. So it is about time that we had a look at what the policies of the Government have done to the Australian wheat growers as individuals. in the first instance it introduced a system of wheat rationing in the middle of the year - a panic measure which was unjust and unworkable. The Government's original intention was to take the quota and nothing more. The wheat was supposed to bang around the farm until somebody called for it. That was opposed. The Government backed down and agreed to accept all the wheat, but it said that it would pay only for the quota wheat and that there would be a storage charge imposed on the remainder. That was opposed. Again the Government backed down and abandoned its intention to burden the wheat growers with an additional storage charge. It became obvious then that the Government had panicked prematurely, that the great crop it was worrying about of 500 million bushels would not in fact eventuate and that the national quota would not be reached. There was then pressure by the growers, naturally, and by all concerned to take in and pay for all the wheat that had been produced in that year. That was opposed. So we fought on. The Government again refused to heed the warnings that all it was doing was hurting the wheat growers' credit and damaging orderly marketing. It held out as long as it could. Finally the Government capitulated on this matter. That was a third victory foi common sense over the damaging policies that have been adopted by the Government. But the quota system groaned on. We have the situation now where (he traditional wheat growers have in some cases quotas so absurdly small that they would hardly sustain the family hens. We have the situation in other cases where share farmers have been driven out - bankrupted. Some of them ure refugees in the cities with their families. The New South Wales Minister for Agriculture agreed with a submission made to him at the wheat centre of West Wyalong that the quota system was 'rotten to the core' but that to change it was beyond his ability. 
What has been the result of the Government's first steps to impose quotas in 1969 and the way in which they have been established? They have caused widespread hardship, a loss of confidence and credit restrictions and, for the most part, have penalised the honest men. Those who disregarded the Government have fared the best. The big wheat growing interests have suffered not at all. The corporations with huge quotas - the big men - have had no real worries. Others have ignored the Government and made long term arrangements to trade outside of the Wheat Board. The very way in which the quotas operated last year gave the greatest fillip to the black market - or is it the grey market or the free market? - since the Government launched its wheat rationing. 
Let us examine what occurred. Despite grave doubts by those closest to the grass roots it was decided to curb quotas. It became obvious very quickly that we would not reach the national quota. That was obvious many months before the harvest, lt was obvious to the State administrations, if not to the Ministers and the governments, that the national quota would not be reached. It was obvious in New South Wales that the State quota would not be reached. Yet the fiction was maintained right up to the harvest that there would be an over-production of wheat. That fiction was maintained by the Government telling farmers of surpluses, by the Government telling farmers that they had to hold down production and by the Government telling farmers right up to the end of the harvest that if anyone had the unique experience of having over-quota wheat in a bad season he would still not be paid for that wheat. That fiction was maintained over the months. All it did was to give the black market its greatest boost since the introduction of quotas in 1969. Everyone in the countryside was well aware that wheat was in demand in the season just past and everyone in the countryside knew that if the Government maintained the fiction of over-supply the only people to benefit would be the black, grey or free market operators. Yet all the governments maintained an intense silence. The Canberra administration had set the style and performance. The fiction of over-supply was to be maintained at all costs and the States bowed to the inevitable. 
What was the result of all this? The result was that the farmers were in the grips of a great dilemma. They knew that there would be a shortage of wheat, that the free trade operators were knocking on their doors and that in some areas $1 a bushel was being offered for wheat at the farm gate. They also knew that the Government was maintaining quotas and maintaining the fiction. They had to gamble as to whether to stick with the Government and run the risk of not being paid for socalled over-quota wheat or sign up with the free operators and be assured of not only their first advance but also more than they would get through the Board system. Let us be clear about that. There must be people listening to this debate who wonder why the farmers bothered at all and why they were in any dilemma at all. But, as everyone in the industry knows, the wheat growers had to fight for the orderly marketing system. They wanted it and they needed it. They worked for a whole generation to have it implemented. Now this Government has tampered with it. When the survival of the family - I say this very sincerely - and the survival of the farm are at stake and the bank manager is saying: 'You had better sell or sign up' the wheatgrower has to look at his home first, particularly when he knows that the Government is wrong and will not admit it. 
Let us examine the incredible anomalies the Government's nihilistic policy has created. The New South Wales Government decided to abandon quotas publicly after the harvest was under way. All the wheat that was left went in and it was to be paid for. So that was the end of that as far as New South Wales was concerned. But Victoria lagged behind. It was maintaining the fiction, with Canberra, that there could be too much wheat. So in an area which is in New South Wales but which is administered by Victoria for the purpose of wheat deliveries there was about 200,000 bushels of wheat without a home. New South Wales had no quotas and Victoria had quotas and in the middle was 200.000 bushels of homeless wheat. So I gently mentioned this situation to the State authorities in Victoria and warned them about it. Their response was lofty and negative. So I told them in a little stronger terms that either they did something straight away or there would be no wheat for them to take in. They acted eventually and got about half of what I suppose would have been available had they in fact recognised the situation and made an announcement at the right time. 
Let us have a look now at what has happened as a result of the Government's policy. We have now institutionalised the black market or the free market, whatever one likes to call it. We have big growers who have contracted 5 years ahead. We have a criss-cross - I was about to say a crisis - of wheat trade outside the Board and outside the Government. One branch of the Victorian Farmers Union has advised me that a transport operator from a small area had contracts for 4 months to cart across the border. I intend to read to the House a report which was carried by a border newspaper in this regard. I intend to suppress the names of the towns mentioned because I have no wish to issue an invitation to the Government again to send the Commonwealth Police into my electorate. The report is headed 'Inter-State Wheat Trading'. It reads: 
In recent weeks, many Inter-State trucks have been bringing in wheat to the silos of- 
The report gives the name of the town -  dealers, end at present many of the silos are full to over-flowing. 
The words 'Inter-State wheat trading' have now replaced the old phase 'Black Market Wheat', and the farmers seem to he quite happy with their dealing in NSW. 
It has certainly helped to keep-- 
Again the name of the town and the next town -  busy. 
Trucks from-- 
The report mentions 6 towns in Victoria -  have been seen deliveringwheat to the local silos.  That is the report. The black or free market is quite openly and freely being institutionalised. Microscopic quotas have created this situation. Unreal attitudes in marketing have created this threat to orderly marketing. Now we are faced with a possible carry-over of only 60 to 80 million bushels of wheat - a dangerously low level. If Australia has a bad harvest next year we  will  face the prospect of importing wheat for the fourth time in living memory. This would mean hardship for the farmer and hardship for the city housewife. She should understand that when wheat went up 4c a bushel the cost to the consumer  was  90c a bag. There are about 3 bushels of wheat in a bag of flour and there are about 90 loaves of bread in a bag of flour. So  Mrs Housewife  should be clear on this: She may pay too much for her bread but the producer receives too little for his product. 
Let me look to the next season. If governments - Federal and State - maintain the conspiracies of silence that they have in the past throughout the season and the harvest is down and demand is constant then there will be an even greater boost for the black or the free market. One-third of all home wheat sales will be outside the Government system next season unless there is greater flexibility by all concerned in the administration of quotas. As my friend and colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said, there is a need in fact for a far higher national quota. He was blunt and definite on this point. The onus is on the Government. The Government decided to hold the quota at the present level despite a dangerously low carry-over. The Government had to be prodded in an election year to accept even the present quota because it was no: going to accept it. The quota was going to be even lower, so the Government hadto be pushed into it. I serve the warning that-- 
MrO'Keefe  -  How many bushels are involved in this black market? 
lt is estimated that for this year there would be 10 million bushels and if the Government keeps up its performance this year, 20 million bushels will be involved next year. The honourable member for Paterson is the honourable member who rose in this House and complained about thousands of bushels of wheat being stolen from silos and asked for an investigation. I do not blame him for doing that. Why did people steal from silos? Why was there this activity? I will tell the House why: Because there is a demand. 
A former Minister asks who is buying wheat outside the system. If he does not know then I suggest that he should have found out. It is not my duty to act as a police informer in these matters. I am pointing out the consequences of the Government's policy. 1 repeat that if the Government maintains this policy with the S ates in the same way as has been done in the last 3 seasons then this will be the consequence of that policy: It will destroy the orderly marketing system. 
Yes, it is also unfortunately too true. Government supporters have called upon growers fo put their neighbours in before now. This was the appeal that was made in this House: 'Report them. Tell the Government who is delivering across the border and who is selling outside the border.' In fact the demands were so insistent that I thought I had better address a question to the then Minister for Primary Industry who is now the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I asked the Minister how many members of the House of Representatives had reported this activity; how many names of farmers had been given so that police could descend and prosecute them? How many members have done this? In fact, how many reports has the Government received? It is very interesting but very specifically a matter for the record that not one member of the House of Representatives - and f am glad about this - has submitted the names of any wheat growers for illicit trading. 
1 do not want to be uncharitable because the honourable member is not in the chamber but if the hon ourable member really wants me to give the name of the honourable member I would be quite happy to do so because it is in Hansard. The supporters of the Government at this time should be clear and definite about the position. There is a warning here. The action which is to be taken next season is also quite clear. The national quota has been set. There will be a vote of the money to cover it and the Government, of course, has already decided on that amount. The wheat growers will pay the interest on it and the Government will be amply repaid. But if the season goes wrong it will be of no use maintaining the fiction right up to harvest time that there is a quota that is going to operate. 1 suggest that both in Canberra and the other capitals there is a little bit of intestinal fortitute to support the opinion that we should say: 'Look, we set a quota. It was a genuine effort, lt is not going to apply this year because in fact there is a failure, so we are telling you, the growers, that quotas will not operate.' That is fair and just. If this is not done the system the growers have fought for will be destroyed and the thing that the Government has said it is against will be created. What is more, it will be a guilty government that destroys an orderly marketing scheme and brings growers into greater difficulties than they have ever been in. 
In the minutes remaining to me in this debate 1 think it is just as well to mention for the benefit of those members of the House of Representatives who have not realised it that Australia is not really a very potent or great force in the world in terms of grain production. It is about time that members of the House of Representatives realised that our wheat crop does not decide the great balance of hunger or plenty in the world. In fact the islands of Great Britain which are not very great produce twice as much grain in an average year as we do and the French - and of course Government supporters very rarely refer to them except for certain specific reasons - produce 5 times as much as we do. So let us not have honourable members going into their electorates with the great alibi that we are dominating the wheat scene in the world because it is just not true and it never has been. I might say that the Government alibi in this regard just will not stand up. I would hope that 
Government supporters would have learned heir lesson and 1 would hope that there would be a more realistic approach in the next season and in the next 12 months. If there is not there will surely be created a permanent institutionalised black, grey or free market in our country which the growers themselves do not want to see and which would be to the detriment of the industry. 
 I rise on 2 matters tonight. The first matter follows the sincere exposition and statement which were made by my friend the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I am very jealous of the good reputation of the Parliament and the nation, and I think this is a matter to which we should have paid a little more attention.  1  was very disappointed with the reply by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  who is sitting at the table. I say this because while it may well be that the case is at this stage unproven there are 2 points that should be made. Firstly, it is a serious matter to make a racial or anti-Semitic statement in a multi-racial community such as Singapore as a senior supporter of the Government and indeed as a senior member of the Parliament. 
1  want to make the point that this is a very serious matter, if proven. The Minister indicated that he had doubts as to whether this statement had been made. I hope for the sake of the Parliament and the nation that the statement was not made but I feel that it would have been right and proper for the Minister to make one statement tonight that he neglected to make. He should have made it very clear on behalf of the Government, as we would make it very clear on behalf of the Opposition, that any anti-Semitic references at any time in our community are completely and absolutely unacceptable. Racism and bigotry should have no part, and I feel this is something- 
My  Speaker,  I draw attention to the fact that a most serious statement has been reported. I am not accepting the report by any means. I am giving you the point that this matter has to be properly investigated. I am making this point very clearly now. I am asking also that the results of the investigation be conveyed to this House by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The Minister at the table has heard the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson. I am making the point to the Minister, very properly I hope through the Chair, that there should be an investigation - a clearing up of (his matter. 
The Prime Minister should order and undertake an investigation and a report should be made to this House. If in fact the statement was not made this will be welcomed by all of us. If the statement was made there should be a call for an apology and indeed a resignation by a member of the Australian Parliament who would indulge in that sort of conduct while on an official mission. I am not prejudging the issue. I want to emphasise that point. But I hope that the action that has been requested tonight in the chamber will in fact be taken. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer concerns 4,000 landholders and irrigators in New South Wales who are in a state of revolt against impositions which they are unable to meet. It must be the first time in the history of the State that so many people have served notice on government that the charges and imposts made by government which have increased their burdens are unjust and cannot be met. I draw the attention of the House tonight to this position tonight because there is a responsibility on the national Government to give a lead in helping to lift or relieve some of the burdens on primary producers at this time and in these categories. 
Let me refer to the revolt of 600 settlers affiliated with the Closer Settlement Association of New South Wales. These are 600 families who had been settled on the land by government. Members of the Association have seen the Premier, the Deputy Premier and the Leader of the Country Party. They have, to quote their communication, received sympathy from all but no assistance'. They are seeking in fact  a  reduction of rents on blocks selected since 1960. The 600 members in revolt remember very well that  Mr Lewis,  the New South Wales Minister for Lands, and the State Minister for Agriculture on 2 occasions in 1960 and 1963 attacked the then government for raising rents from2 per cent to 5 per cent. The Minister for Lands spoke with feeling and passion in Opposition. He said settlers would fail and that the doubling of rent would be disastrous. He was right. But now  Mr Lewis  is the Minister for Lands and he has the responsibility. What he has done, of course, is to run away from his own words. He has change his mind and forgotten his compassion for the struggling settlers. He has told them to pay up. The collection of the rents means about $280,000 to the State. But in a time of rural recession - and I quote the words of the Closer Settlement Association - the 'settlers cannot pay'. 
Already the Government is at least this amount behind each year in uncollected and in many cases uncollectable rents. The continued advice given to farmers is to apply individually to the Rural Assistance Board. Yet the New South Wales Minister has said that, unless the Federal Government makes more money available, applicants, whether their applications are reasonable or not, will not be able to receive assistance. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  knows this is the position; he has admitted that this is the position at the present time. So the Federal Government has a direct responsibility in this matter. 
The revolt by the 600 settlers was decided upon at Dubbo when the Closer Settlement Association of New South Wales determined to withhold all rents until the reduction is effected. This is a direct challenge to the State Government; it is a most serious one. My request tonight is to the Federal Government to raise this matter of the settlers when Federal-State talks on rural reconstruction are resumed. This is an urgent matter. It is one that should be examined as part of those talks. The 600 families to whom I have referred are not the only people involved in this case. There are also between 3,000 and 3,500 water users in irrigation areas and districts who have revolted as well in a unique way. 
Despite all the rural difficulties, the State Government sought to increase water charges by 50 per cent. This increase was contested and the State Government said: Oh, well we will increase the charges by only 21 per cent'. But this still means that between $500 and $600 is still being owed in bills which in half the cases are not being paid anyway. So the irrigators have gathered in protest meetings in Whitton, Finley and Hay. They have now resolved that no increase in water charges can be paid. They cannot pay and they will not pay. They have revolted against this impost. Again this is another direct confrontation with revenue hungry government. Across the New South Wales countryside, nearly 4,000 people are in direct confrontation with and revolt against this government impost. 
I ask the Minister at the table to ensure that the Minister for Primary Industry takes steps to raise these matters at the resumption of the Federal-State Government conference on rural assistance. These are matters of urgency; they are matters that touch 4,000 settlers. I think that the matters I have raised should be dealt with at this conference in an urgent and specific way. These people are entitled to have help. I ask that the help be given. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bouse adjourned at 11.37 p.m. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the open letter addressed to him in the 'Maltese 
Herald' of 23rd February and further letters in the Italian language newspaper 'La Fiamma' on 14th February in relation to the transferability of pensions overseas? Is the Prime Minister considering the points raised by spokesmen for the 100,000 Australians of Maltese origin, the 300,000 Australians of Italian origin and many other migrant groups such as the German group who are bitterly opposed to the present proposal of the Government to increase the pension qualifying period to 20 years? Are the Government's proposals discriminatory to the extent of providing for 3 different categories of Australians in relation to pension rights? Will the Prime Minis:er agree that it is undesirable to divide the nation and its people in this way? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on order of the day No. 12 General Business being resumed forthwith. 
To refresh the memory of the House I remind honourable members that on 25th November 1971 the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  moved: 
That Parliament abolish wine excise because (a) the grape grower section of the industry is bearing, and is likely to bear, the main burden of the tax. (b) it has caused damage through being the most important factor in a strong downturn in sales and (c) it is largely self-defeating. 
He was. The honourable member for Angas on that occasion put forward a strong case for the immediate repeal of the tax. He described it as 'a thoroughly reprehensible, ill thought-out piece of bureaucratic nonsense'. He also pledged that he would reintroduce his motion time and time again until the tax was repealed. It might be remembered that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  seconded the motion and that the honourable members for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  and Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  supported it. Then, inexplicably, when we attempted to have a vote on the subject they all voted against the motion. Then  we  tried again and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  moved for the suspension of Standing Orders on that same day to enable the motion to be debated until the question was put and the Parliament had an opportunity to vote on it. For the second time that day Government members voted against the motion from their own side on this subject. 
But I am pleased to report to the House tonight in connection with this matter that the honourable member for Angas has had the benefit of conferring with his constituents. As a result of that confrontation he gave an undertaking at a public meeting on wine excise held in Berri on 21st January that he would divide with the Opposition on his motion against the tax and bring as many honourable members from his side with him as he could. I have quoted from the minutes of the meeting, a copy of which both he and I have had for nearly 2 months, and there has been no challenge to them. It is true that he said he would not vote for his own motion or for an Opposition motion if it was tied in any way to replacing the wine excise with a sales tax. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)I remind the honourable member for Riverina that at the moment we are debating the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders and not the subject matter of the debate which the honourable member seeks to have resumed. 
You are correct,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I would draw the attention of yourself and the House to the fact that the urgency of this matter is associated with the fact that the harvest in the Hunter Valley is very well under way and very little remains to be done. This is not, of course, a major harvest in the nation. The harvest has begun in South Australia and in other areas. It has began in a major way in my own area, and in some of my constituency along the Murray River at little places like Euston all the grapes are off. The only problem remaining is what to do with them. This is the urgency of the matter and that is why tonight this attempt is made to bring the Parliament back to the motion moved by the honourable member for Angas and to a decision on it. 
I again draw attention to the fact that the motion which is associated with my exercise this evening is that moved by the honourable member for Angas. The Opposition has been very careful not to change it - not a comma, not a syllable - because it feels that it is an extraordinarily good motion. It is this motion which we want to debate. We want to give everybody who represents a wine grape growing area an opportunity to make a decision in this Parliament now while there is this urgency. It may interest honourable members to know that 18 members of the Parliament are directly concerned with this industry - 4 Liberal, 7 Country Party and 7 Labor members - and I am hoping that from these 18 members- 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Will he list the 13 foreign advertising agencies and the 33 Australian-owned agencies used by the Commonwealth Advertising Branch of the Australian Government Publishing Service during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
What was the value of the advertising contracts involved. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Will he have investigated urgently the report by the Goodradigbee Shire Council on the pollution of the Murrumbidgee River and the recommended need for refinements at the Canberra Sewage Works to remove nitrogenous and phosphatic nutriments which contribute to the growth of poisonous algae in Burrinjuck Dam and offer a potential threat to the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area? 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Hashis attention been- drawn to an incident in December 1971 at the immigration barrier at Heathrow Airport in London involving  Sir John  Pagan, New South Wales Agent-General in London. 
If so, was this New South Wales representative involved in a widely reported altercation over the status of his Australian passport. 
Do representatives of the States travel on Australian diplomatic passports. 
If so, are these passports recognised by British officials as carrying the same privileges accorded to nationals of all friendly nations having diplomatic status. 
Will he take steps to ensure that there is no continuing confusion concerning ' the status of State representatives carrying Australian diplomatic passports and serving in overseas posts to enable this type of incident to be avoided in the future. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This is a legal matter, not really a matter of emotion. It has nothing to do with culture, heritage or anything of that type. It is a matter of legality. The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  is trying to interject. 1 ask him to contain himself for a moment and I will put a question to him. He may then enter the debate a second time, which is his right at the Committee stage. This provision has been taken from old imperial Acts drafted at a time when there was a common citizenship throughout the British Empire. In 1972, if we adopt the provision in this legislation, a very interesting situation could arise. 1 suggest that the Minister take an interest and apply himself to what f am about to say. 
Pakistan has withdrawn from the Commonwealth of Nations, as it now is legally. Honourable members can check on that with London. Members of countries in the Commonwealth of Nations generally hold British citizenship. Pakistan has withdrawn, but all the Pakistani citizens by a law established in London, not Canberra, are still British citizens because before their status can be changed the Citizenship Act of Britain must be changed. There is therefore an interesting situation. I understood from the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  only a week ago, and from his 2 predecessors, that the primary citizenship is Australian, but we are now asked as a Parliament to enshrine in law something which is quite ludicrous in the light of reality. 
A man can be recruited from Pakistan as a British subject, just so long as he is described as a British subject, not by our legislation but by another nation's legislation. The honourable member for McPherson is amused. I agree with him that it is rather funny. It is very amusing that we are asked to enshrine such an outofdate provision in 1972 legislation, lt is asking rather much of the national Parliament of a country which is gradually moving towards some semblance of independence in law making. I suggest that the Minister, who prides himself on his erudition, apply himself ' to that legal tangle so that when we recruit British subjects from Pakistan we ask whether they are British subjects by virtue of the law of the Commonwealth of Australia or by virtue of the law of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, or just how they measure up in the present situation. 
Obviously it is an empty provision because events have left it behind, ft is entirely a legal matter. If it is not recognised as such, I suggest there should be consultation with members of the former imperial government, I am sure that they will be delighted to explain to the honourable member for Mcpherson, who seems a little confused, that the British Empire has passed away. 
Tonight 250,000 Australians are worried about the future of their pensions and their prerogatives as citizens of Australia. The Federal Government, by its attitude to pensions, is perpetuating undesirable divisions in our country. Indeed, the Government's present proposals do more than that. They will create more divisions than we have at the present time. The burden of the legislation before the house is not to end the divisions but to perpetuate them and to extend them. Very briefly tonight I should like to refer to 5 divisions that will be created by the Government's proposed 20 year scheme. 

 - Mr Speaker, I respect your ruling and, of course, it is right. I do not think that is a reflection on the Chair. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  You have drawn attention to the fact that I am not to canvass the Labor Party's Bill relating to social services which is before the House at the present time. I accept that ruling. I represent the largest concentration of migrants in any inland area in the Commonwealth of Australia and I had hoped to make a contribution in the course of the debate which was initiated this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Because of the deliberate and definite tactics of the Government- 
Of course I missed out. The Assistant Minister Assisting the Postmaster-General, one of the voices of the Government, says that I missed out. Of course I did. He knows that very well. I missed out because honourable members on the Government side decided that I would miss out. That is entirely in accord with the tactics of the Government. Tonight during this adjournment debate I must say that I represent many people who are closely involved in the Bill which was before the Parliament today. They would have liked to have had their voice heard. It is a matter of great, pride to the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  who interjected that their voice was not heard. But that is his privilege. In accordance with Standing Orders I cannot debate that Bill. I speak on behalf of a quarter of a million people who have come to this country and who do not share in the benefits in which they expected to share when they came. They feel betrayed. More than feeling betrayed they feel double crossed because they had been told that there would be no trouble because portability of pensions would be accepted. 
The proposals before the Parliament will, in reality, deprive many thousands of new Australians of the privileges which they presently have. That is the reality of the present position.  Mr Speaker,  you and 1 sit in this national Parliament as Australian citizens.I hope that we do that with great pride. In fact, I know that we do it with great pride.  Mr Speaker,  you and I have a stake in this legislation. If the Government's proposals are adopted there will be created 5 categories of citizens in our country and you and I will be one of those 5 categories. I know that the ruling you gave is correct and that it is not open to me to continue to debate this matter. If there are any interjections from honourable members opposite, let them speak up, because I cannot hear them. The tribal rock musical on my left is a bit muted tonight. However, if they want to be out of order and if they want to speak, I challenge them to do so. 
What did you say,  Sir Winton  Turnbull? Sotto voce interjections are not really my forte but if the honourable member wants to challengeme,  Mr Speaker,  encourage him. 
In summation, may I say that the proposals now before the Federal Parliament which were introduced by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on behalf of the Government and which purport to extend social services will mean that there will be one-quarter of a million Australians who will be worse off. 
I think that the Government should heed the voice of the many settlers who have come to Australia in the last 20 years and who say that the 20-year scheme is unacceptable and wrong and should be abandoned. I have risen during the adjournment debate tonight to make this point. I know that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, is not responsible for all the Government's sins but I hope that he takes the message from half the Parliament to his colleagues that we would like one simple concept to be adopted, namely, that a man's pension in our country should be his right and not a privilege. It should be taken wherever you,  Mr Speaker,  and I want to end our days. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and  Industry, upon notice:  (!) Was the last and only occasion on which the United States of America reduced its discriminatory tariff  on  Australian wool in 1947 when the then Labor Minister for Postwar Reconstruction, the Honourable  J. J.  Dedman, secured a reduction from 34 cents to 25 cents a pound after some hard bargaining  in  Geneva. 
Did the Minister secure similar results on his recent visit to Geneva. 
If not, when can some results in this matter be expected particularly as United States agricultural authorities have indicated that the United States tariff is not only affecting Australian wool but destroying the United States wool market at the same time. 
I present the following petition from certain citizens of Australia, mostly in Moombooldool: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth; 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In seconding this motion I say very bluntly that the deplorable situation to which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has referred has been brought about entirely by the Minister and the Government. In fact, this entire situation is their responsibility. The only reason that the Minister is in !he chamber this afternoon and the only reason that the Government has at last permitted the Parliament to say anything at all is that the industry has recognised this responsibility and that the Government is guilty of causing all the confusion of the situation which members of the Opposition have tried to rectify for the last 2 years, indeed, throughout the whole life of this Parliament. I remind the Minister, in case he has forgotten, that on 18th March 1970 I indicated that the Government was allowing matters to drift and there were increasing requests by wool growers for the matter to be referred to them by referendum. He continued to ignore that proposal. The partial lifting of the ban was in defiance of the wishes of the Australian Senate. It was lifted in defiance of the expressed opinions of Victoria and Western Australia. It was lifted in defiance of the Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales, the Victorian Farmers Union and the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales. The 2 New South Wales farmer and grazier organisations and the Victorian Farmers Union could claim to represent 56.6 per cent of the industry. These organisations were against lifting the ban. I might say that the Senate was also definite in its opposition to the lifting of the ban. On 18th March 1971 I directed a question to the Minister in connection with this and urged that this matter should be dealt with properly. I remind the Minister that on 29th April 1969 the Senate, by a majority of one, passed the following motion: 
Thar the Senate is of opinion that the embargo on the export of merinos should not be removed at this rime and that the embargo should remain in force until a majority, of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
There was no constructive response to that motion. Then, on 9th December 1971, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and I sought to have the Minister present a prepared statement to the Parliament to enable the House properly to debate the issue. He denied us the opportunity. The House divided on the proposal and by a vote of 52 to 44 - a majority of 8 votes - members of the Opposition were denied a proper opportunity to debate the matter at that time. 
I might say, despite the Minister's noisy interjections, that he is in a fix because of his inadequacies in this matter. He only reflects the inadequacies of the Government at the same time. 1 am deeply concerned, as a representative of many fine and basic studs, that in recent years, as a result of the Government's sponsored rural recession, the studs have been in a situation which has been increasingly difficult. In fact, last year alone they were 70 per cent down in their operations. They have not been able, in many cases, to get access to private finance to carry on their operations. They had hoped, when the wool subsidy was introduced, that they would be able to participate in that scheme and would get a share of it but, as the Minister knows, 90 per cent of the subsidy in some areas has gone, not to wool growers or to stud owners and operators at all, but to the pastoral finance companies, banks and other people who have a lien over particular flocks and sheep numbers. This is a situation where the much vaunted wool subsidy scheme has not helped a vital section of the industry. Of course, no-one on the Opposition side wants to see the dispersal of studs. It would take 20 years to put them back together again. Under the legislation of a Labor government they will be in a position of security compared with their present position. I speak of those who are seeking to serve the industry. 
Let us just have a look at what the Minister has put to the House. It was really quite an incredible statement. He said: 
On 27th November 1929 the Scullin Labor Government imposed, by administering action, a ban on the export of stud sheep from Australia. This action was taken hastily, without adequate research, and without proper consultation. . . . 
That is a very interesting statement. It has taken the Minister and his colleague  40  years to wake up that this was hasty and jil advised. The Minister has spent the last 3 years in denying this Parliament an opportunity to properly debate this matter. I might say that we have been totally consistent on this subject. We have said that if the Minister wanted to impose a ban or to lift a ban we should discuss it in this place. There are some very exotic bans. This Government maintains a ban on the export of budgerigars. I do not know what the attitude is on this matter but perhaps the 
Government is going to have a nice little conference somewhere to recommend that this ban should be lifted partially or entirely. Nothing would surprise me. I know that it is possible to have a referendum amongst the honey growers. We had that and we approved of it. There was no problem as far as the bee keepers were concerned but our great wool industry is to be denied a voice. Now, after 40 years, the Government has woken up and begun to count rams. This is very interesting. 
This Government has never brought this matter to the Parliament. It has denied the Parliament any opportunity to decide. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made it plain that as far as we were concerned - being interested in parliamentary procedures, dedicated to upholding them and seeing that they are properly observed - this matter should be brought to this House so that it can make a determination. He said that on behalf of members of the Opposition. This opportunity has continually been denied to us. Then the Minister has what I think are very serious things to say about our trade, particularly with China. We have had again a pattern of attacking China. I understand, of course, the motives of the Govern mont. But is it not incredible that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  on the very first day that he took over this portfolio, sought to denigrate and smear China? In fact, he said he would not jeopardise his soul to sell wheat to China. I am not sure of the state of his soul, but I know that we have not sold any wheat to China. 
We had the Minister for Primary Industry come into this House this afternoon and say that there is a deep plot to help the communist Chinese. What a poor thing to say when we have an industry which hopes to join the world rush for trade with China. I wonder what is this incredible phobia of the Minister for Primary Industry and his colleague in this continuing dislike of trade. This has nothing at all to do with politics. It has nothing to do with the emotionalisms of politics. This is a matter of international trade. I suggest that we as members of this Parliament have a responsibility to see to it that we are not out of step with the march of time now in regard to trade with China. Unfortunately the Government is. 
The situation now is '.hat it has been suggested that the Australian Council of Trade Unions is in some way the guilty party. That is a very interesting observation in view of the fact that the ACTU has told the Minister and the Government that it was awaiting the expression of the will of the Parliament. The ACTU was an instrument of parliamentary democracy in this case. I might say that the only people who have denied the Parliament the opportunity to debate this mat'er and resolve it have been the Minister for Primary Industry and the Government generally. The Minister's mishandling has caused this indecision and the difficulty. It is, of course, an embarrassing situation. It is a reprehensible situation to find that sales have been made from Australia to overseas countries, including China, much as the Government may not like it, and contracts have been entered into in a situation of complete indecision by the Government, the Parliament and the nation. The indecision is clearly the responsibility of the Government and the Minister. We have pleaded that the indecision be resolved. We tried. We are completely consistent because we said 3 years ago and we repeat it today: Let this great industry decide for itself. 
The Minister may have another point of view. In fact, 1 think he does indicate his support for a partial relaxation of the embargo on the export of merino rams. He does attempt, of course, to support this with a reference to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is neither a democratic nor an acceptable body to the overwhelming majority of wool growers. So let the Minister take the responsibility for what he is proposing. Let the Government for once take some responsibility. It does so when it is in the mood but it usually likes to hide its decisions behind someone else. Let the Minister take the responsibility for this decision. He is the one who is putting it forward. He takes full responsibility for it. He and his predecessor should have done this before any decision was taken. It should have been properly done, not done in a bad and poor way. 
I am saying this to you very bluntly. If I have not made myself clear, I think this is worth repeating for the Minister's benefit in case he dropped off; I know that the afternoon is getting on. There should have been a reference to the industry in the first place. This is what we have consistency said. We have also said that if there is to be any determination it has to be made in this Parliament, and we have sought to have this done. There has been nothing inconsistent about our stand. 
I say that there was no agreement at all and the Minister knows this. In fact he is in a situation of his own making and now a decision has to be made or will be made, I hope, by the House; this is what we desire. This is the sovereign Parliament of the nation, as sovereign as it can be under this administration. We have a responsibility to the people whom we represent. I am only sorry that this whole mess occurred in the way that it did, with the attempt by the Government to shift the responsibility on to the ACTU and to blame the communist Chinese - again I quote the Minister. This is a reprehensible thing to have done. It does no honour to the country. It does no good to the Government. It certainly does no good to our trading relationships. Our stand is clear. First of all, there is a great concern - and I share this concern - for the future of the stud industry. As a matter of fact, there is a need for definite support to be given. There is a need for the wool subsidy, which is being held up, blocked on its way to the growers and the studs, to flow to them. 
I repeat that we on this side of the House do not want to see a situation where the best blood lines in this nation would be dispersed because it would take us 20 years to put them back together again. This is a clear situation as far as we are concerned. What we are debating is a great decision which touches on the industry but on which the industry has been denied the opportunity to express itself in a democratic way. As far as the Opposition is concerned, we rest on our consistent advocacy of the reference of this vital matter to the industry itself. I hope that in the meantime, because there is this continuing confusion, the Government will act with some dispatch. After  2  long years of waiting the penalties that have accrued to the good name of Australia and to the wool industry have been severe. It is more in sorrow than in anger that I castigate the Government for the situation that it has created and which we are trying to change. For these reasons I speak today and second the amendment. 
It is right that I should rise in this debate as a representative of the sweetest State in the nation, if we take honey as a criterion. Following the honourable member lor Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  with his well known ornithological interest, I was tempted to be less than sweet but seeing he desisted from mixing vitriol with honey tonight I will attempt to leave him undamaged on his perch. I find myself in surprising but complete agreement with his expressed desire for a poll or referendum of honey producers. I thought he made the point very well. It is a matter of some surprise that he did express himself along these lines because it seemed to me that it was only yesterday that my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Paterson)  and other members of the Opposition tried to convert him to the idea of having a poll or referendum of wool growers. 
There seems to be some great difference between the 2 industries and the issues for this ambivalent attitude to be adopted. We of the Opposition tried very hard to put our plea forward. I thought it had fallen on deaf ears but as I recall the events of yesterday I seem to remember that the honourable member for Wakefield was pretty definite that there should not be a poll of wool growers. I do not know whether he was suggesting that wool growers were not as fit as honey producers to go to a poll and express an opinion. However, it seems to me that we are at one tonight, at least on this principle. We of the Opposition have been quite clear in our attitude. We have said: 'Yes, let us refer to the industry by way of referendum; let us have a poll'. I hope that the expressed wish of the member for Wakefield this evening and his late conversion might be heeded by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Certainly we of the Opposition support the expressed view. 
It might be just as well to remind the House that Australia's honey industry is not without some significance. In fact there are 5,481 beekeepers or apiarists and in the last year for which I have figures they produced nearly 49 million lb of honey that brought $4.8m. I mentioned that New South Wales is the sweetest State if we take honey into account. The total number of apiarists or beekeepers in Australia who have over 200 hives is just under 700 and 26S of them are in New South Wales. Next in line is Victoria with 153. Queensland has 73 apiarists. South Australia 129, Western Australia 67 and Tasmania, for some reason or other - perhaps it is the climate - has 9 only. So in New South Wales there is considerable interest in this matter. 
If the 200 limit is what is required to qualify for a vote and for registration and recognition as a bee keeper I thought the figure might be a little high. I thought that it seemed to be just too much. However, this evening, on looking at the figures, I find that the 700 apiarists mentioned, who represent only 13 per cent of all those registered, account for 83 per cent of all the honey produced. There are over 4,000 beekeepers whose average gross income from honey is only $90. So it seems that the organisation that represents apiarists, the States and the Commonwealth officers have decided on this occasion that 200 hives seems to represent the level of commercial enterprise and we of the Opposition accept that at this stage. 
However, there are one or two queries that should be put tonight to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  as the representative of the Government. There is always a worry among primary producers that those who buy their product may also be in a position to fix the prices for it, to fix the conditions of acceptance and in fact to place the producers in a captive situation. This is one of the worries producers have about the representation on the Australian Honey Board. We find that there are 5 producer members, 4 packer representatives and one member nominated by the Commonwealth. If the Commonwealth nominates a packer it means that there are 5 packer representatives. The  chairman  has the casting vote. If the board is constituted in that way it means that the primary producers, the apiarists, are outvoted and outnumbered. This is a matter for consideration and it is a worry. I think that the people in the industry are right to raise it. It may well be that the appoint ment by the Minister on this occasion will not be a processor or packer; but it could well be the other way about. I think that the Minister should give some reassurance along these lines otherwise some hundreds of people will be in doubt as to whether they will have a major voice or a minority voice on this board. I put that query forward in a constructive way. 
My colleague the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and  Senator McLaren  of South Australia both have raised worries that have been brought to them by beekeepers in their 2 States. One of their worries related to registration. This was mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson. He said that surely there is some importance about the date on which these people with 200 hives or more become eligible to vote. Surely there is some importance about this date. If there is not some safeguard it could be that someone with 800 hives could register, dividing them by 4, and thereby get 4 votes. In other words, he could divide his holding by 4 into 200 hives each and thereby be entitled to 4 votes. There is concern about that. That concern has been expressed in the State of South Australia. I think that it is fair to put to the Minister and the Government that the date of the last registration should be accepted as the date of registration with 200 hives for voting under this legislation. I invite the Minister to comment on that and to clear up the point. There has been a desire in Western Australia for clarification of just who is a producer. In fact, I understand that the Minister was asked to insert a clause clarifying the definition of a producer. I ask the Minister why, if he has given close consideration to the representations from Western Australia, he did not in fact insert in this legislation the clause that Western Australia sought. 
Running through all of the correspondence that my colleagues and 1 have received - it has been mentioned that we have received a great deal of correspondence on this subject from 3 States - is the great worry that the producer will find himself in a minority. Without labouring the point at length, I feel that it is important to receive assurances from the Minister on this matter. It is all right to set up a board. As has been said on many occasions, the structure of a board may be fine and the concept of a board may be fine, but the composition of the board often determines whether or not it is going to be an instrument in favour of the producer. There is that very real concern to which I think the Minister should apply himself. The date of eligibility, which is one point that 1 would bring home again, the actual definition of a producer and why the Minister has given consideration in the way that he has to this particular matter, are points that the Opposition raises quite constructively. As has been indicated by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  there is no opposition to this legislation, but there are these queries that have been rightfully posed and I think that this is the time to clear them up. Like my colleagues, I welcome the strengthening of industry organisation, but I do feel the responsibility for clarifying the worries and doubts that have been raised rests with the Minister tonight. I invite him to undertake that clarification at this time. 
 I rise tonight to ask for the Government's intervention in order to halt a further cutback in wool processing facilities in Australia. It is incredible but true that Aus tralia, the greatest wool producing nation in the world, is one of the smallest processors of wool. In fact, we process only 7 per cent of our national clip. We are processing less wool than we did 20 years ago. The wool industry has been allowed to languish as a colonial industry in which we in Australia produce the raw product for our sophisticated big brothers to process and market. One of the largest wool processors in our country and one which plays a key role in handling carbonising wools - these are an important segment of production in the Riverina area - is Henry B. Smith Ltd of Melbourne. This is an Australian company which has been struggling to survive. It has been under threat of takeover from an organisation called Tour Finance Ltd. Suggestions have been made as to the content and make up of Tour Finance. I do not know, and I cannot tell the House of Representatives tonight, whether Tour Finance is an overseas dominated firm or whether it is a consortium which is solidly based. I make no allegations one way or another. I do say that it is very largely an unknown quantity at this time. 
The Henry B. Smith company on the other hand has been struggling to stay in wool processing. It is happy to continue processing. It is trying desperately to stave off a takeover which will result in the destruction of a vital wool processing facility. I am not interested in taking the side of one group of financial interests against another. They are both in the market place on their own behalf. But the national Government has a commitment to the economy at least to scrutinise transactions which could be to the detriment of a national industry. 
The people engaged in the industry are rightly concerned. The Wool and Basil Workers Union has expressed grave concern about the motives for the takeover bid for a company which those in the industry describe as efficient by world standards. This company also has the maximum overseas consumer outlets built on a half century of expertise. Those engaged in the industry are alarmed that a significant wool processor will be run out of business for financial speculation. Throughout the wool industry there is a desire to see more processing of the national product, not less. The wool processing industry has a vital role to play in the future of the sheep industry generally. But let us just see what Australia has been doing about wool processing in the last 20 years. 
During the war years, and in the postwar years, our country processed up to 35 per cent of the wool clip. Today we are down to 7 per cent. Employment in the processing industry has dropped by 30 per cent in 20 years. Let us see what has happened State by State according to the figures of firms which were respondents to the Wool and Basil Workers Award. Twenty years ago in New South Wales there were 40 respondent companies. Today there are only 4. In Victoria at that time there were 72; now there are 20. In South Australia where there were 7 there are now 4. In Queensland the number has fallen from 7 to 5. In Western Australia there were 4 and now there are 3. Every State has shown a decline in wool processing and, nationally, 134 firms which were respondants 30 years ago are now more than 39. Yet, here we face the loss of another vital processing plant. 
I realise the difficulties of any intervention, but the nation and the national administration has a responsibility to know what is happening to vital components of industry. I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, to influence the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to make urgent inquiries and, if necessary, to enlist the help of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  The matter is urgent. It should be treated as urgent. We should not lose yet another segment of the wool producing industry by default. I suggest that the Government has a responsibility here to check on the bona fides of this possible takeover and to do everything possible to assure the continuance of a full wool processing industry. I ask the Minister to ensure that his 2 colleagues whom I have mentioned take action together to do what they can to preserve this important segment of the wool industry. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Government cooperating with the New South Wales Government in a feasibility study to establish the need for a Darling River Basin Authority with the object of opening up areas in New South Wales and Queensland exceeding 250,000 square miles; if so, will he indicate the extent of Commonwealth co-operation. 
If the Commonwealth Government is not co-operating, will he make available to the New South Wales Government all possible assistance in a significant national project. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are there four organisations desiring to speak for oil seed growers. 
Are these organisations (a) the United Farmers' and Woolgrowers' Association, (b) the Australian Coarse Graingrowers' Association, (c) the United Oil Seed Growers' Association and (d) the Oil Seed Export Development Association. 
Has he details of the names, addresses and occupations of the office bearers and committeemen of these bodies. 
If not, will be obtain the details and supply them to me. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many officers of his Department who represent Australia overseas have not yet become Australian citizens by naturalisation or registration and where are they serving. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the reduction in expenditure by the Commonwealth on migrant education resulted in the closing of more than 100 evening continuation classes in New South Wales. 
What plans has he to replace these with specialised and accelerated forms of instruction. 
How many migrant English language classes are now being conducted in each of the Australian States at this date and what were the numbers at the same date In each of the last 2 years. 
How many persons are currently enrolled and what was the comparative number at the same date in each of the last 2 years. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Will he investigate the import of frozen chickens through the port of Sydney from Canada. 
What quantity of chicken has been imported in the 1971-72 financial year. (3.) Who are the importers and is the chicken for the retail or restaurant trade. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What sum has been paid - out under the wool subsidy scheme to date. 
What sum has been paid to (a) pastoral companies, (b) banking firms and (c) individual woolgrowers. 
Has the government maintained a check on how much of the subsidy paid to banks and wool broking and handling firms on behalf of their clients has been received by woolgrowers and how much has been retained as debt adjustment. 
I find the Government's approach to trade and tariffs extraordinarily lethargic and dilatory. 1 echo the criticism that has been made of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for absenting himself overseas when the statement he has just presented to the Parliament and which contains so many important implications was about to be debated. He made the statement and he left. This typifies an attitude which has been enshrined in the actions of the Minister and of the Government over the last 2 years. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who has just resumed his seat, indicated that there was a certain sadness on this side of the House. It is a certain sadness tinged with resentment at the fact that our trading record over 20 years shows a deficit of $8,000m. This is nothing to be proud of. It is something to be deeply concerned about. Yet in 2 years we have not had the opportunity for a full debate in trade and tariffs and on the implications of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. This is a matter of deep concern. The Minister should stand condemned before the nation for his attitude and for his absence on this occasion. 
We have had 10 years' notice by the British that they intended to try to effect entry into Europe. It is now some considerable time since they made their firm decision and they were accepted. They are now in the process of entering the Common Market. They have indicated that the United Kingdom Australia trade agreement will be non est by January 1973. That is next January. In the statement that we are debating this afternoon the Minister said: 
I wish to announce also that I will shortly be asking the Tariff Board to examine and report on tariff items where the margins between general and preferential rates of duty are greater than are required under our preferential trade agree ment, particularly with the United Kingdom. The  reference  is expected to cover some 1,000 items of the tariff and a report will be requested by the end of 1972. 
That means that by the time the British decision is implemented and they are in Europe and our trade with Britain is in limbo, we will not have an opportunity of debating in detail the technical information and the Government's recommendations, if any. I charge that there has been great lethargy and great dilatoriness in this matter. We have made attempts to prod the somnambulant Minister into some sort of activity. In November last year I drew attention to the fact that on 28th October 1970 the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, made a statement in this Parliament on the United Kingdom levies on imports of Australian agricultural commodities. The debate on that statement was adjourned. We have seen the retirement of  Sir John  McEwen but still we have not had an opportunity to debate that statement. To get the detail behind the statement I had to rely on a local newspaper that turned up with a detailed report by the present Minister for Trade and Industry which he made somewhere, somehow, at some time or other but which he had denied the Parliament. We still have not had any detail on that matter nor any opportunity to debate it. On 16th February last year this matter was raised again. In November I asked the Minister whether we would have an opportunity to debate this 2-years-old statement in relation to trade and tariffs.  Mr Anthony,  the Minister for Trade and Industry - I use his name because there have been two in the last couple of years - said: 
There is no desire on the part of the Government to avoid debate on the issue. 
I find that extraordinary. There has been no desire on the part of the Government to avoid debate. We just have not had any debate. Again a request was made, and my colleague the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  interjected on that occasion: 
Do you think it ls not important? 
The Minister for Trade and Industry said he hoped to have a debate. He said: 
At the moment it is calculated that the session 
We are talking about last year - will continue until at least 9th December. We are presently debating the Estimates but it is my desire and wish that we have a debate on the paper which I presented to the House. 
That was last year. It is now April. We have not had a comprehensive statement on the position of Britain's entry into Europe. Do not forget that trade and tariffs are intertwined. You cannot separate them in these great matters that are before us. But the national Parliament has been denied the opportunity to have this proper review and proper debate. We still have no idea whether the Government has woken up to the fact that the British Government and the Common Market countries have come to some sort of agreement. There have been great and dramatic developments in trade. The United States of America has taken extraordinary action. Britain has made major decisions. The Common Market countries have made major decisions. This must be the only Parliament in the Western world which has not had an opportunity to debate trade and tariffs. We must be unique in that way. This Parliament has been fed a magnificent diet of trivia but it has not had an opportunity to tackle these problems and to deal with them. 
The, statement which the Minister for Trade and Industry made - he then went overseas - is very much overdue. As I mentioned earlier, notice was given 10 years ago by Britain that she was going to seek entry into Europe. The British have already made and announced their decision. They have had debates in the British Parliament lasting days and, in fact, weeks. But of course the Australian Parliament does not have to apply itself to these important matters. Our net trade deficit for the last 20 years amounted to $8,000m. This is not a matter of concern to us. When honourable members opposite talk about sadness on this side of the House they can be sure that we are sad at this performance. I go further and charge the Minister and his colleagues with some deception in this matter. There is no doubt that they have been making statements which have expressed dissatisfaction with the arrangements made by the British Government to safeguard Australia's interests during the transitional period leading to Britain's entry into Europe. That dissatis faction has been expressed recently. The Minister for Trade expressed further dissatisfaction with the instrument of accession. It does not give the assurances which the British Government said it would contain, and so there has been criticism. Apparently there has been criticism here in Canberra and elsewhere in Australia, but this is not the situation as the British see it. I have a letter over the signature of  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home, the British Foreign Secretary, addressed to a member of the British Parliament,  Mr Leslie  Huckfield, in which  Sir Alec  says: 
Australian Ministers, including  Mr McMahon  on his visit to London in November last year, have expressed their satisfaction at the steps taken in the EEC negotiations to safeguard Australia's interests over the transitional period. No Australian Minister has criticised the UK for joining Europe, and many Australians welcome the prospect of an influential British voice, which can. speak up for Australia, inside the European Communities. We have been in close contact with the Australians at Ministerial and official level throughout the EEC negotiations and I think the position of each side is well understood by the other. Talks at official level are expected to take place again in April. 
That is this month. This Parliament has not been advised of that. There have been no announcements at all made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  I charge the Ministers concerned and the Government with dereliction of duty to this Parliament and to the nation on these matters. They will have left themselves open to the serious charge of duplicity unless they can rebut completely the statement made by the British Foreign Secretary. This is a serious matter. It is a matter of credibility. It leaves them open to the charge of roaring like lions here in Canberra but squeaking like little mice in London. This is a matter of more than passing concern when we consider the future of our trade and of the community which depends upon it. This nation lives to trade and trades to live. This is the precept by which we should be guided. The British Foreign Secretary expressed his satisfaction with the present position of British trade with Australia. He said: 
As regards our trade with Australia, the balance is in our favour. In 1971 our exports to Australia were valued at stg365m, compared with imports of stg277m. But the United States is Australia's main supplier, being responsible for 25.1 per cent of Australian imports in 1970-71. We came next, supplying 21.4 per cent 
The British Foreign Secretary continued: 
Out 1957 Trade Agreement with Australia provides for tariff preferences to be given to most of our exports to that market and also to most of our imports from Australia. On our accession to the EEC this Agreement will have to be terminated, and we shall phase out, over the transitional period, the preferences which we accord to Australian exports of industrial goods. The future of the preferences which we enjoy in the Australian market is a matter for the Australian Government, and they will no doubt be eliminated in due course. But we see no reason to assume that they will disappear immediately we enter the EEC. 
This is the most important definitive statement on Australian trade relations with Britain that I have heard in 2 years - in fact, that has been made in relation to this matter in 10 years - and it came from the British Foreign Secretary. It did not come from the Australian Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry or any other Minister of the Australian Government. What a jolly colonial situation we are still in. Is it not all very nice? I wonder whether the salaries of our Ministers have been earned in this matter. After all, they are paid as Ministers of the Australian State to administer affairs on behalf of the Australian people but I do not see very much evidence of either at present. 
As a matter of fact, I resent the fact that a British member of Parliament is able to get this information from his Foreign Secretary. I might say that they are on different sides of the House.  Mr Leslie  Huckfield happens to be a Labor member and, if I remember rightly,  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home is a Conservative Minister. However, they seem to be able to exchange information quite well and quite precisely. This is in contrast to the situation in the Australian Parliament, where the Parliament as a whole - Government and Opposition - is treated in this cavalier fashion by the Minister for Trade and Industry and by the other Ministers concerned. So, I find it a matter of grave national concern that we are at this stage of the year and at this stage of the change in our relations with Britain and we still have no idea where the Government thinks we are going. 
In case there is some feeling that this is an abstract matter, I would point out that entire communities - there are a dozen towns involved - are relying on the Gov ernment to re-negotiate tariffs and preferences to ensure their continuation in production - production that was originally designed to serve the British market and which was designed within the Imperial fabric which will come to a complete end on 1st January 1973. These are urgent matters. I place the charges seriously in the Parliament this afternoon and I would hope that there is a Minister of State who has the courtesy and the information to rebut them. I notice that not only is the Minister for Trade and Industry - he also happens to be the  Deputy  Prime Minister - not here but somewhere else, but the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Nixon)  also has fled the chamber. 
I do not know where he is. The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry was here earlier but he has disappeared. I might say that it does the honourable member for Mallee little honour to interject on behalf of absent Ministers. As far as I am concerned, they should be here. They are not here and they stand condemned in their absence. The charges that I have made have still to be answered. 
I move: 
Thai the following words be added !o the  question  "subject lo the omission of proposed standing order 132 and the addition of the following new standing order: 28A. A Petitions Committee to consist of seven Members, shall be appointed at  the  commencement of each Parliament to which all petitions shall be referred for examination and reference to thi appropriate instrumentality, of Government. The Committee shall be empowered lo report to the House from time to time indicating what decisions have been taken by it in regard lo th? petitions received, if any reports have been received from or action taken by departments, and whether tha Committee recommends to the House any action in relation to the petitions'.". 
I point out that at the present time in Australia up to 100,000 people in a single year sign petitions and they do so mostly in the hope and expectation that the national Parliament will take some action on those petitions. They do this because they feel that the Parliament is the repository of their rights as citizens. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  have pointed out that history has been studded with efforts to make sure that the people had the right to petition their parliaments. What happens to the petitions at the moment is that, far from receiving the serious consideration of the Parliament and action by the Parliament, they are received, on some occasions they are read and then they are consigned unanimously to limbo. In this instance limbo does not comprise the pigeon holes, because we have a great many petitions and the pigeon holes are not quite adequate; the petitions just rest in dungeons to gather dust and cobwebs and to receive the consideration of the spiders, if any. This is not good enough. The people expect some action on their petitions. lt has been suggested b&gt; members of the Government parties that the people are wasting the Parliament's time and their own by petitioning the Parliament. The phrase 'waste of time' has been used by several members on the Government side. 
I feel that this is a tragic attitude to petitions. To present a petition is the only way in which a citizen can present his views directly to the Parliament - not to the Parly, not even to the member. It is just possible that there are citizens in the community who have no confidence in their members. It is just possible, too, that there are people in the community who are not attached to any of the parties, lt is just possible that they take seriously the fact that the Parliament is the repository, or is supposed to be the repository, of the people's rights and so they go past the member, they go past the Party and they go direct to the democratically elected Parliament of the nation sitting as a Parliament - to what has been called the grand constituency of all the people. They do that, and what do they find? They find that the petition is received, read and sent to limbo. There is no investigation; there is no action; no real notice is taken of the petition. 
It has been indicated that it would be beyond the bounds of possibility and the time of Ministers - and presumably of the small horde of Assistant Ministers - to give some time and consideration to petitions and to what they contain. I reject this suggestion and I hope that the Parliament will reject the concept that petitions are a waste of time and that people should be denied the right to present them or be discouraged from petitioning the Parliament direct. The honourable member for Stirling in his address to the House earlier pointed out that the New Zealand Parliament had taken steps to ensure that the people had direct access to their Parliament and that the Parliament took action on their petitions. I will not go over the ground covered by my distinguished colleague from Stirling because he gave the House an outline of exactly the procedures that  aTe  adopted in the New Zealand Parliament - exhaustive procedures which have been accepted by both the Labour Party and the conservative Party in that Parliament. It has been possible for New Zealand to follow this system successfully. 
The petitioner even has the right to present his case in person. It is not just a matter of investigation; he has the right to present his case in person to the appropriate committee. We suggested that for the first time here. The sugges-ion was advanced by the honourable member for Stirling and it was ridiculed. Imagine an ordinary individual having the right to petition the high and august members of Parliament assembled in a committee! It was heresy to have that echoed here. But New Zealand seems to be able to manage it particularly well. I am not advancing tonight the full procedures that are followed in the New Zealand Parliament - far from it. What I have suggested is a streamlined version of their intent and their actual practice. The streamlined version is a very simple procedure inasmuch as it involved the establishment of a petitions committee by the Parliament and of the Parliament. The petitioners come to the Parliament. What the Government is saying is that the people can always petition the Parliament, but the petition will go to the Ministers. Most of the petitioners have from time to time unsuccessfully approached their members on the subjects covered by the petition. They have unsuccessfully approached the Ministry. Their next step is to petition the Parliament assembled. 
Through an honourable member; that is quite so. But if you are going to suggest that the only recourse that a citizen of our country has in an appeal from Caesar's decision is to go back to Caesar but only through the avenue of the Parliament, that makes a farce of the petition. In fact I would go so far as to say that at the present time petitions to the Australian Parliament are nothing more than a confidence trick. What the Government is saying to the people is: 'Petition the Parliament. We will receive it and read it but we will take no action.' There is implied in the right of petition the right to have action taken. The Government is continuing a ritualistic farce. That is all it is. I agree with my distinguished colleagues on both sides of the House who have said that there is still a residual power in the petition to influence, but it is a very indirect and very pallid power. The Opposition wants some reality about the rights of petitioners. Let us say to them: 'You may petition the Parliament and if the Parliament receives the petition the Parliament can (ben refer it to an appropriate body under the control of the Parliament. Also the Parliament will be the final arbiter of whether further action should be taken or not.' I suggest that it is just not good enough to have Caesar enshrined in full authority and for nothing else to be considered. That is what the Government is saying. 
The major point that has been made in this debate is that the Standing Orders Committee of this House has made certain recommendations. It is those recommendations that we are debating tonight, lc has also been suggested by members of the Government parties that there is something entirely wrong about members of the Standing Orders Committee coming into the Parliament and moving amendments. The impression has been given by honourable members opposite that the Standing Orders Committee - and all-party committee - has been meeting without restraint or restriction in a non-party atmosphere. I am very sorry to say to the House that this is not true, m fact the Government members caucused on these matters and they came to the Standing Orders Committee as a group, as a government and representing 2 political parties. This to me is a matter for regret. The Standing Orders Committee should meet as representatives of the Parliament and not of parties. The debate should be undertaken by members of the Parliament and not by members of the parties. I do not stand here tonight and address the Parliament as a member of any particular party in this respect. A completely free vote has been permitted by the Opposition on all these matters. 1 am very sorry to see the mindless discipline which has been accepted by members on the Government side in this matter. It seems to be a complete source of regret After all, if the Parliament is an institution it should not be denigrated by this sort of party hackism 
As a matter of fact, an honourable member has interjected to say that there may have been some measure of disagreement as well as agreement on the Government side on some of these matters. I am perfectly happy to accept that my brother legislators have minds of their own. They may disagree with me on all counts, but I would like them for once to disagree with me as members of Parliament and not simply as disciplined members of a party. Why not once be able to stand free as a member of the Parliament? We have been able to do this on many issues and I am very proud to be a member of an organisation which has recognised the right to conscience. If there is to be no acceptance of this proposal which I advance tonight, to make the petitioning of Parliament a reality in regard to action, what we are asked to do tonight by the Government is to accept the continuation of a ritualistic farce and I am very sorry to think that the Parliament of the nation is allowed to degenerate to just plain ritualism. 
When we refer to the report of the Standing Orders Committee, we find that on page 18 there was advanced by members of the Committee something along the lines of the proposal that I have spelt out in a streamlined form to the House tonight. It was dealt with by the Committee, but unfortunately it was not considered on a non-party basis. It was subject to party discipline by the 2 Government parties. 
Someone said: 'Shame*. I think that is right. 1 think that it is about time the Parliament and the members assembled had the opportunity to express their thoughts as free members of this Parliament without party and Government discipline. 
I should like to wind up on this note: The important matter is that the people concerned with a petition have, in the normal course of events, presented their case to a member and to a Minister. Their case has not been heard and they are taking it to the supreme organ of democracy in cur country, which is the House of Representatives. What happens now is that the House of Representatives says: 'You have been to see Caesar. We will take you back to see him again'. I am suggesting that the Parliament have under its control the action that should be taken on behalf of petitioners. I ask all members of the House to give serious consideration to this procedure just for once as members of the Parliament and, as far as honourable members opposite are concerned, not as disciplined members of the Government parties. I suggest to them also that they should recognise that humbug will be out and, if all they are trying to do is to preserve empty forms, they will be known and recognised for doing just this. So, I suggest that consideration be given to this proposal because, after all, we have accepted on all sides of the House the right to petition. Surely then, if we are to be genuine about this matter, action should flow from a petition lo a committee of the Parliament under the control of the Parliament and the report should come back to the Parliament. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the Chair to comment on a statement made by  Mr Speaker  just before he vacated the chair? During the course of my remarks I indicated that the Government members of a House procedures committee had met together and made certain recommendations. Of course, they had caucused in that regard. I understand that is the position. However,  Mr Speaker  pointed out to the House that once those recommendations from the Government members procedures committee had come before the Standing Orders Committee the members of the Standing Orders Committee, no matter whether they were from the Government side, had not caucused. I wel come this assurance from the  Speaker.  It is a most welcome development. I had intended to point out that the Government joint party House procedures committee had met together and had presented recommendations as a committee to the Standing Orders Committee. This was the procedure which had been followed. That, of course, was caucusing. But I accept and very much welcome the assurance by the  Speaker  that he as a Government member and other Government members of that committee did not caucus again on those recommendations and, in fact, operated independently. This gives us all a glimmer of hope that perhaps the measure before the House tonight might be dealt with in a similar way. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has the overseas company of Diashowa Harris been granted occupation and use of Twofold Bay, New South Wales. 
Was an undertaking given that sufficient trees would be left on the headland to shield the ugliness of a chip mill development. 
Has this undertaking been broken. 
If so, will he use the resources of his office to ensure that environmental desecration is at least minimised even at this late stage. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will Australia's recent accession to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development mean that 
Australia's economy in future will be open to the same international scrutiny as that of the other nation members? Is the Prime Minister aware of allegations that the OECD secretariat in Paris is finding it difficult to secure from Australia basic data needed to provide for the visit to Australia by the OECD survey team in September? Will the Prime Minister ensure the fullest co-operation with the OECD secretariat now and with the visiting team in September and will he further ensure that the results of this first open scrutiny of the Australian economy and development will not be held up by the Government until after the election and thus deny the opportunity to the Australian people to have access to an independent judgment of the Government's economic performance? 

 - Mr Speaker, during question time the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  misrepresented me and the purport of my question to him. He also reflected on my allegiance to the Parliament and the nation. He stated that my request to him involved the abdication of what is left of Australia's independence after 22 years of Liberal-Country Party government. I wish to put the record straight. I asked whether the Government would co-operate in the comparative studies which the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development undertakes of the economies of member states. Presumably we joined the OECD to seek help and information. The Prime Minister misrepresented my question on that matter of co-operation and indeed seems to have repudiated our membership of OECD. 
It is timely, after a year of operation of the Commonwealth Government's rural reconstruction programme, to examine how it has worked in that time. The scheme was announced as one of 3 major measures which the Government had decided would solve the problems of the rural sector. The first of those measures was the emergency wool grants scheme. The Government allocated $30m under this scheme but by the time the scheme ended there was a list of unsatisfied applicants and the Government took back an unexpended amount of $8.5m. The second measure that was supposed to be of major assistance was the wool subsidy scheme. In answer to a question, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  told me that up to 17th March $5 1.2m had been paid out so far, but the Government has confessed that it does not really know or care who got the money. The Minister has been told bluntly that in some areas up to 90 per cent of the wool subsidy has been going to pastoral finance companies and banks. What is happening in so many cases is that the debt structure of the wool grower is being lifted from the banks and pastoral finance companies to the local government bodies and local businessmen. Only today I received a copy of a letter from a wool grower, well known in his area, who wrote to his shire in the following terms: 
I understand,  Mr Speaker,  that the Minister's conscience is troubling him, and he has my sympathy. AH I hope is that conscience will prevail and that his policies will change. The opposition has spelled out precisely and clearly in its supreme policy - making body - the Federal Conference - which met in Launceston that it recognised the need for long-term low-interest finance. It was resolved as a Party decision that this finance should be made available. The Government parties might find it incredible in their circumstances, but we placed no limit on the amount to be made available. Such money was to be made available as would lead to a new deal in the countryside. We are not tied to banks and pastoral finance companies. A Government guarantee of $500m at 3 per cent would cost the Treasury $15m, the amount that the Government is now frittering away in little extras. If those loans were made available on terms up to 30 years it would break the recession and bring a new deal to the countryside which the Government has refused and which we are pledged to bring about. 
I desire tonight to deal briefly with the position of science in Australia and also to rebut the statement that was issued a few days ago by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  There is no doubt that science in Australia today is in the doldrums and that there is a disillusionment among many scientists and a disenchantment with science by a growing number of Australians who do not see science solving the problems in the way they had hoped. The reasons for this are to be found very directly in the Government's neglect of research. Some figures that have just been made available dealing with the expenditure on research and development in Australia compared with other countries show that we are one of the lowest nations in the Western World in relation to expenditure on research. I thought it important that the House should know this so that there can be a debate on the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which is the major scientific force in the nation md indeed the nation's research instrumentality. Australia spends a lower proportion on research and development funds in industry than any country in Western Europe except Spain and Norway. The figures speak for themselves. The figures that have been compiled by  Dr Clive  West show that Australia's expenditure on science as a proportion of the gross national product is 1.19. This is among the lowest in the world. The figure for the United States of America is 3.56. The situation is a serious one. The Minister for Education and Science said that there was no muzzling of CSIRO. I W deal with that point later. The Minister also said that the expenditure on CSIRO has been quite adequate. The position of CSIRO in the nation makes it important that it is adequately funded. In the expenditure on research and development in Australia in 1970-71 the Commonwealth Government sector amounted to $1 65m, the State Government sector to S33m, the universities to $68m, industry to $120m and the private non-profit sector to $6m, making a total in that year of $392m. The biggest single amount in the Commonwealth Government sector went to CSIRO. 
The Minister said that there has been an adequacy here. It is interesting to note and it should be noted that for 7 long years, from 1960 to 1967, there was virtually no increase in the number of scientists on the national payroll. After 3 years of this financial drought for the nation's scientists there was some movement forward to expand the work and scope of the organisation. Over the subsequent 3 years there was an increase of about 100 positions a year spread over nearly 50 divisions. The ratio of these appointments is one research officer to an assistant. So, it can be seen that the nation's gain in scientists was minor. In the past 2 years only maintenance allocations have been provided to the CSIRO. That is the situation in regard to the financing of this organisation. In fact, it has been asked to do additional work and the funds have been maintained at a constant or maintenance level which means that there must be reductions. It is a matter of concern that the effective work of the CSIRO is being reduced and must be reduced in existing projects because there is just not the money being made available for these to continue. 
The other matter with which I wanted to deal tonight was the constraints which are imposed on the nation's scientists. I made the statement that CSIRO research officers in the main at present are muzzled and that the CSIRO is becoming the silent service of the seventies. My complaint in this respect has been echoed by  Sir Otto  Frankel who was the Chief of the Division of Plant Industry for many years before his retirement. In an address recently at the Academy of Science in Canberra  Sir Otto  said: 
Constraints on the, roughly, one-third of Australian scientists and technologists employed in government departments and instrumentalities constitute a significant deprivation of the 'public interest'. 
I think that statement speaks for itself. The new  chairman  of CSIRO,  Dr J.  R. Price, in an address to the Victorian Society for Social Responsibility in Science sounded a warning. He said: 
However, owing to the Organisation's role as advisers to the Minister and through him to government, and since public interest is frequently associated with matters which may be under active political examination by the Government, or may be so in the near future, 'it is obviously undesirable for anyone expressing a personal opinion to appear to speak on behalf of CSIRO'. This applies particularly to senior members of CSIRO likely to be called on for advice to the Government ... 

 Dr Price summed up by saying: 
Hence, members of CSIRO should 'restrict public comment on matters falling within the legitimate areas of expertise of the Organisation to factual statements'. 
If we examine that statement we find that it means that anyone who is engaged on research into aspects of pollution is permitted to give the detail of the findings in relation to the effects of pollution, but if he is asked to comment on the causes of pollution he cannot do so. That seems to me to be a most serious constraint at a time when we need scientific bases for our programming to take this nation out of the arthritic present into, I hope, a somewhat more dynamic future. 
To refer specifically to the restraints which are imposed, only today a complaint was lodged with me by a representative of private industry who has been engaged in some work with an officer of the CSIRO in a cap/.ai city. The result of that work has been that they are launching a new project, and so an invitation was issued by the private sector to the officer concerned to take part in the opening so that they could acknowledge his good research :rid public work. However, to their concern, he was refused permission even to tike part in the opening of the project. That seems to me to be part of a muzzling which is going on in a continuing way. I do not think that the Minister can afford to brush these things aside and say that adequate finance is being provided to the CSIRO when obviously the figures tell a different story. I do not think he can say there is no muzzling and no constraint when obviously there have been. We should take the gags off scientists so that they can deal not only with the factual matters that they have under their care and responsibility but also with the causes of the problems they are studying. 
This is the plea that I make tonight: It is important that there be a national debate on where science in Australia is going and what will be the future use of the nation's major scientific instrumentality, the CSIRO. I feel that it should be a matter of concern to all of us that for 2 years the estimate for this Department have not been properly debated in Parliament. There has not been an adequate alloc ation of time to examine those estimates in detail and, in fact, there has not been an adequate allocation of time to review the programmes which currently are going forward. This ls important for both sectors. It has been suggested that new work on the environment should be undertaken by the organisation. That is very desirable and very commendable. It has been suggested that work should be undertaken in the mineral sphere. This, again, is desirable and needed. But unless funds .ire made available some of the existing research will have to be reduced if that work is undertaken. Half the efforts of the CSIRO at the moment are directed to the primary sector. That research has been supported by the primary industries themselves. But those industries are not in a position to continue that support. In the absence of Government initiative that valuable segment of research will be reduced. 
In summation, I suggest to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is at the table, that he convey this submission to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  so that he may review the constraints that I have, mentioned and so that he may look at the research project within the CSIRO which has been held up in order to evaluate what is being done and to indicate needs in a forward way. This survey which started in 1968-69 still has not been completed. The question may well be asked: Have the brakes been applied to that survey? Is it another example of the desire for secrecy, for muzzling and for gagging the nation's scientists? 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Did he advise the Griffith Aborigines Advancement Organization on 27th January 1972 by letter that the Government intends to eliminate all provisions discriminating against Aborigines in Commonwealth and State legislation. 
If so, will he list the present discriminatory Commonwealth and State Acts which he believes should be amended. 
Did the previous Prime Minister state that all discriminatory legislation would be changed in the life of the present Parliament: if so, will this time-table be adhered to. 
The urgency of action in Australia on imitation meat is indicated by the fact that, on present forcasts, by 1980 one million Australians, 20 million North Americans, 20 million Japanese and 5 million Britishers will be eating ersatz meat products. At present promotions of imitation meat are being launched even in the country areas of New South Wales. Only 2 days ago I received a protest from the city of Albury pointing out that the virtues of imitation, ersatz or plastic meat - whatever term one likes to use - were to be extolled at a public demonstration. By its lack of action the Government has suggested that this matter is not urgent and important. I would say that there is an urgency and a need for action, and this has led the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  into his minor revolt today. Obviously, the honourable member and his colleagues are saying very bluntly to the Government that there is an urgent need for action and that there has not been sufficient action on this matter. 
The terms of the matter of public importance indicate criticism of the Government. They read: 
The urgent need for the Government to take immediate steps as a matter of public importance to plan for the protection of the Australian meat industry against the probable future influx of synthetic or imitation meats on the Australian market or Australia's overseas markets following recently announced developments overseas. 
When the matter was put by you,  Mr Speaker,  to the House as a matter of public importance and you asked whether a sufficient number of honourable members supported it, you would have noted that the members of the Opposition were quick to rise to their feet and support it and we were glad to encourage the somewhat sluggish members of the Government parties to do the same. This stricture oh the Government is well earned, because the matter has 'been under consideration for some considerable time. As a matter of fact, some months ago I raised it with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  This led to some questioning, particularly by honourable members opposite, as to whether I did the right thing in raising the matter and querying whether sufficient action had been taken at Government level. We now see that there is deep concern among members on the Government benches. 1 welcome this expression of concern. I welcome the minor revolt which it indicates. On 21st December I raised this matter with the Minister for Primary Industry, following the importation of a consignment of $28,000 worth of synthetic or filler products. I wrote to the Minister in the following terms: 
I have been provided with samples of imported synthetic beef, ham and chicken, which I am informed was part of a $28,000 consignment brought in by an overseas cannery operating here, as a filler for products so labelled as to indicate they included meat. 
I am concerned that this could lead to a flood of similar imports of synthetic meat, and I am also concerned that if the name 'meat' is to be used at all it should be used only to describe the genuine article whether included in such products as canned foods or meat pies. 
It is my assessment that the synthetic meat is actually a soya bean product 

 Mr Speaker, you might recall that some time ago during an adjournment debate some honourable members who were interested and I had a little midnight supper with some of the synthetic ham, chicken and beef products I brought along. The tasting was an unqualified success as I had endeavoured to indicate that this was an inferior product from the point of view of taste. I have also established that imitation meat is a soya bean product. Soya bean is a very fine product of our countryside - not very much is grown, unfortunately - but it is not meat. I was glad to hear the honourable member who raised this matter today say that there was no intention of denigrating the soya bean. We accept that the soya bean is a very versatile product of the countryside, but a very serious principle is involved here. It is perfectly in order to have a soya bean product such as a soya bean loaf. There is no argument about that at all. But it is perfectly improper and an exploitation of the housewife to have that product labelled 'meat' when it is not so. 
I drew attention to this matter and 1 pointed out that the Australian meat pie was under attack, that the canned meat product on our market was already under attack and that the attack on the fresh meat market was just beginning. In Australia today there is already on sale synthetic meat in the form of sausages, hamburgers, meat loaf and poultry, mostly in the canned form. At the National Agricultural Outlook Conference in Canberra recently the  chairman  of the Australian Meat Board,  Colonel M.  H. McArthur, reported that in the United States last year the production of substitute meat was greater than the total meat imports. He called on meat producers to fight the spread of the ersatz or imitation product. The annual report of the Meat Board for 1971 called for urgent action to prevent the word 'meat' from being used to describe these ersatz products. The Board asked that 3 principles be adopted: Firstly, the meat consumer is entitled to protection so that what he buys is genuine; secondly, the consumer should be informed if substances of vegetable origin replace any meat in the pack so labelled; and. thirdly, no variation of existing limitation of non-meat content should be permitted without an appropriate change of labels. This is a very fair submission on behalf of the Industry - not only on behalf of producers but also on behalf of consumers. I would urge the adoption of those 3 principles that have been put before the Government. 
But what in fact has the Government done? The Minister for Primary Industry advised me that all States have been requested to examine their existing legislation to ensure that the definition of meat clearly specifies that it is a product derived from animals. That was a fine first move but that was last year and the situation in relation to market penetration by imitation meats advances steadily. There is an urgency about this. The figures that I quoted at the beginning of my address to the Parliament this afternoon indicate that urgency. It is not good enough simply to deal with the matter on one occasion at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council and say: 'That is the situation'. Australia has a import position to consider. We have had what basically was a pilot introduction, the samples of which I have brought with me into the House. That pilot introduction was by a multi-national corporation which naturally was interested in maximising its return. It will go ahead with the operation if it proves worth while. 
We need action to protect not only the producer but also the consumer. The crying need in Australia at present is to see that the Australian housewife is adequately protected and she is not being adequately protected at the moment through the poor labelling not only of meat but also of other products. Perhaps one of the most glaring examples of bad, inadequate and misleading labelling relates to the citrus industry. I have a whole file on products which would give one the impression of containing citrus juice. Indeed, some of them give the impression that they are pure and unadulterated citrus juice and nothing else. However, on analysis, it can be found that they contain no citrus whatsoever. That is an example of misleading advertising and this also applies to the sorts of synthetic meat products that we are discussing this afternoon. 
It is not good enough to leave the housewife to her own devices. She is not in a position to analyse the products. She is not in a position to go to the supermarket, select a range of products for her family table, take them along to the friendly neighbourhood research chemist and ay Give me a rundown on the actual content of what I am supposed to have brought'. So, it is not just a passing matter of abstract interest; it is a matter of very real importance. From the producers' point of view, the meat industry is making a major contribution to Australian exports. We were told in the House today by the Government spokesman on primary industry that there was a challenge to the meat industry to rise to the export opportunities. I am sure that if the producers are given a reasonable deal, they certainly will rise to any market challenge that the Government or anyone else puts to them but, at the same time, it is improper to have the meat producers of Australia undermined by permitting the sale of wrongly-labelled synthetic meat products. 
I feel that, nationally, we should be taking a fresh initiative with the States to introduce the reform of labelling which will give the consumer and producer protection. It has been pointed out that the imitation product just is not as good as real meat. If any honourable member has any doubts as to whether this product is good or not and as to whether it tastes well or not, he is welcome to join me in another meal - perhaps not in the chamber - of ersatz products. I am sure that this would convince honourable members of the inadequacy of the taste of synthetic meat and also of the undesirability of taking a vegetable product, adding some chemicals to it, giving it a chemically simulated flavour and saying: 'Here we have something that is equal to or better than meat'. That is the situation that exists at the moment. These things are being done and I and my colleagues have grave concern about this matter, particularly in relation to the import situation. We can see the very real possibility of the imports of these products, particularly for processing purposes, being expanded. 
It is as well to place the figures in relation to overseas countries on record. I have given the projections up to 1980. British consumption has risen just recently to 1,500 tons and a recent survey of 40 of the major food suppliers in the United Kingdom revealed that these suppliers expect a 5 per cent penetration of the meat market by 1977, a 10 per cent penetration by around 1981 and a 25 per cent penetration by 1990. I stopped my projections at 1980. The continuing attack on the market by these synthetic products is illustrated by that set of figures which was provided by the Rural Bank of New South Wales. Production of substitute meat in Japan has doubled in the last 2 years to 24,000 tons. In the United States at the moment 26 firms are producing ersatz meat and the United States Department of Agricuture has estimated that by 1980 meat substitutes will displace up to 20 per cent of the meat now being used in meat type food preparation. All this adds up to one great challenge to the consumer and the producer - to the producer because bis home base is being undermined and to the consumer because  Mrs Housewife  is being misled again. 
I would join the revolt by Government supporters against the Government's lethargy in this matter to ask that it take  a  new and further initiative. It is not good enough to leave the Australian meat industry exposed to this unfair penetration. I stress that we are not talking about discriminating against someone who is a vegetarian. The Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr King)  who is sitting at the table might well be  a  vegetarian. I do not know. If he is, I would be very happy that he has made that dietary choice and I would not dream of denying him the sustenance that he seeks. However, I would like him also to be sure that when he buys meat - I am only using this as an example, of course - he gets exactly what he asks for and is not misled. As I said, I join in this revolt and ask that there be a new initiative by the Government to ensure that the 3 principles that have been requested are adopted as  a  matter of urgency and that there is justice and truth in labelling for the consumer and the housewife. We on the Opposition press for this and want to see it brought about as a matter of urgency. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation  and Science,  upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the Honourable W. C. Fife, M.L.A., representing the New South, Wales Minister for Education, informed the' Riverina University League Conference held in Albury in 1971 that the New South Wales Government would defer consideration of the Riverina University until the 1976-78 triennium, and that the New South Wales Government's decision on the University would depend on the Commonwealth Government's attitude to finance for it. 
If so, has he or have his predecessors received a direct submission along these lines from the New South Wales Government. 
If a submission along these lines has been received, will he give details of the answer. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
When was the question of interstate travel concessions for pensioners first considered by Commonwealth and State Transport Ministers? 
On how many occasions since then has the question been raised at meetings of these Ministers? 
Have State Ministers told the Commonwealth that any such concessions for pensioners sh'ould be provided by the Commonwealth as  a  social service and as a legitimate function of the Commonwealth under the Constitution? 
If so, has the Commonwealth refused to accept this proposal? 
If the position is as stated, will the Commonwealth reconsider its altitude which is denying pensioners interstate travel concessions in most instances. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Will he indicate: 
what staff and facilities he has at his disposal to operate effectively as Minister for the Environment; and 
whether he regards these facilities as adequate, having regard to his recent answers to questions and personal representations requesting investigation of environment problems and his advice that these matters are for Slate action only.  "  Mr Howson  - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I invite the honourable member's attention to information about staff provided in reply to Question No.5013. Clearly, it would be inappropriate for me or officers of the Department to investigate specific environment problems which arise locally and exclusively out of activities within the constitutional responsibility of the States. Consultation and co-ordination between the Commonwealth and the States on appropriate environmental matters take place through the Australian Environment Council and its Standing Committee. 
RuralPo  .  eduction  (Question No. 4956) 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the plan which he announced in early December 1971 to remove 14,000 woolgrowers from the countryside involves families exceeding 40,000 people. 
Is it also a fact that the established ratio of producers to other rural residents is one to four so that the evacuation of about 100,000 people is involved in the plan. 
Is it the intention of the Government to establish refugee camps for the dispossessed within the capital cities. 
Will steps be taken to provide transport for these people, preferably not in sheep trucks, as the $1,000 loan to be provided by the Government to those dispossessed will hardly cover the costs of moving. 
It is evident from what we have heard from the Government benches tonight that there is some dissatisfaction with the structure of the Australian dairy industry and some doubt and uneasiness about Government policies. We on this side of the House would echo that doubt and uneasiness. I rise particularly to support the proposals that have been outlined by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for the development of a national dairy industry with national initiatives and national leadership. The 7 dairy industry legislative measures which come before the Parliament tonight cover the very basis of industry operations. 
The essential measure before us provides for a cut - a possible cut, a foreshadowed cut or an actual cut, we are not sure which - of nearly $14m by the Federal Government in the funds made available to the dairy industry. I must say that the cut is diplomatically introduced. It is introduced under the guise of a minimum sum only, but if there is to he further support for the industry, this seems to be entirely contingent on whether the industry and the States do as desired by the Commonwealth Government. If anyone is in any doubt about this, then the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech has made it clear. He said: 
The actual amount of Commonwealth assistance for the next 5 years will be determined each year in the light of the needs of the industry and taking into account the action taken by the States in the adoption of am effective scheme to control production but it will not be less than $27m. 
The Minister and the Government are in fact wielding the big financial stick to the dairy industry, and the big stick is being used perhaps to bring about further reductions in that industry, again as the Government sees them necessary. The Minister for Primary Industry has made clear the Government's policies in this regard. Speaking in South Australia, and reported in the 'Victorian Farmer' of 11th April last, the Minister had this to say: 
The 2-price scheme . . . provides for the tailoring of production to market opportunities in times of depressed market circumstances . . . the 2-price plan forms part of the industry's proposals for the stabilisation arrangements to apply after 30th June this year, and the adoption of the scheme by the States or their preparedness to adopt it, will be an important consideration in relation to the Government's consideration of the stabilisation arrangements to apply after 30th June. 
The Minister has always indicated that the 2-price plan is the brainchild of the dairy industry; that it is in fact the unanimous solution that the industry in all States has put forward to the Commonwealth; and that the Commonwealth, in its generosity, has agreed to do something which the industry is demanding should be done. It is a pretty picture. But the fact is that the idea of the 2-price plan was conceived in Canberra and sold to the industry and with the carrot and the stick the Government is now seeking to get legislative approval for its own proposal. Perhaps it is the solution. But when we try to see what the proposal in detail really amounts to, we find that it tends to disappear. There is in fact no detailed 2-price plan. 
Western Australians, and interests in Western Australia, have put forward the proposition that each State's quota should be its own consumption. Another proposition is that the quota should be based on present production so there would be no cut up of reductions as part of the 2-price scheme. A further Victorian view is that the scheme should operate on factory quotes instead of farmer quotas. Under this scheme it would be too bad if a farmer were tied to a low quota factory. Another proposal was called the Gouen plan, under which every farmer would have a home consumption quota and he who wished to follow the export trend could do so; he could follow the market as he chose. 
The question to be asked tonight is whether the Government, which has brought in this legislation, has properly worked out a 2-price plan. If it has, we should know how it would operate and whether the States have signified agreement with it. Let us consider what preceded this legislation. First there was a submission by the Commonwealth Government to the Australian Agricultural Council for a 2- price plan. The State Ministers have agreed to seek detailed proposals from the State dairy officers. We could end up with six 2- price plans and perhaps a further 6 plans from the Dairy Board. We could have 12 plans from which to make a selection but tonight we certainly do not know on what basis. It is very likely that the reduced funds now being made available could be dissipated. In fact I think the Minister really has in mind that these funds will not be adequate and that it will be necessary for the industry to come back to the Commonwealth saying: 'We need further funds'. Then the Minister has told us that he will insist on certain market controls being adopted. Let us consider what this means. Surely it means that the Minister tonight is asking for a blank cheque. In the future the dairy farmer could well find himself being squeezed between the Federal Government and State governments wrangling over the details of a scheme not yet finalised. This hardly seems to be the national lead - the national initiative - which the dairy industry surely has reason to expect at this time. The situation as far as the dairy farmer is concerned is that the Government's policy of industry demolition is succeeding. It certainly is reducing his numbers and his returns are being frozen. 
In 1961 there were 3.1 million dairy cows in Australia. Last year the number was 2.6 million. In 1961 there were 72,751 dairy farmers but now there are only 59,000. When we look at the returns we find that the dairy farmer has been in a financial strait jacket. Since as long ago as 1952-53 the equalised return for butter has not varied more than $2 either side of $39 per cwt. For cheese the range has not exceeded 2c either side of 22c per lb in 20 years. But that is the return to the industry. The dairy farmer gets what is left after factory costs have been taken out. The farmer's unit return is, in fact, effec tively down. The dairy farmer has managed to keep abreast of increasing costs by increasing productivity per acre and per man and increasing his herd size. The owner-operator is working longer and harder and more efficiently, but there is a limit to how much further he can go along this road. So it is hard to see the justification for any cut back in support by the Commonwealth Government at this time. 
The Parliament would be remiss in its duty if it ignored the fact that the dairy industry's supportive services - the freights, the handling and the marketing - are the areas where improvements in performance are needed. The cost of every single service provided for the dairy farmer and for the handling of his product has increased. His return remains static. This means that the return per unit of production is effectively reduced. The cost of every method of handling his produce has risen. Surely if we talk about efficiency in the industry we should go beyond the farm gate for a change and look at the whole pipeline of costs involved in a primary product and its marketing. I represent, I am proud to say, the most efficient dairy farmers in the world but they are confronted with the most inequitable cost system in the world. It is time we had a look at the whole situation. In 20 years farmers have, over a wide range of products, doubled their per man and per acre output and efficiency. The fanners have done this but such results have not been achieved by any of the supporting services. I urge Government supporters to ask any dairy farmer whether he can name one service or one product which he must use which has improved or been reduced in cost in the last 20 years. 
Let us examine in further detail the rural cut-back as it affects the dairy industry. Let us look at the State position. It is interesting to note that almost the whole of Queensland's production of factory butter is sold on the domestic market. Its exports have shrunk almost to vanishing point. The disappearance of butter in Queensland amounts to 26,500 tons of which 16,500 tons represents local consumption. In order to maintain exports of butter and butterbased products, such as ghee or butter oil, it is necessary to import approximately 7,500 tons of butter last year. New South Wales is in a similar position. Production has been reduced from almost 39,000 tons to approximately 21,000 tons in the same 10-year period. Butter exports from New South Wales average only 500 tons a year. It is necessary, in fact, to import about 20,000 tons annually to New South Wales. Both Western Australia and South Australia supply only about two-thirds of their own needs. In 4 States, therefore, butter producers are selling virtually the whole of their production on the domestic market. 
It is interesting also to note that the number of dairy cows in milk in Queensland had dropped from 963,000 in 1949 to only 532,000 in 1969. This is a trend which is well marked. In New South Wales the number of cows in milk in 1970 was 652,609 as compared with 894,163 in 1961. That is a decline of almost a quarter of a million cows in 10 years; so there have been considerable and almost dramatic reductions in New South Wales. We have a story of a decline in the numbers of farmers and in stock numbers. This has taken place against the situation where dairymen's money in excess of $10m has been poured into the establishment of recombining plants in Asia. These plants have been described by the Australian Dairy Produce Board as vital to the future of the industry. The plants were to utilise the so-called dairy surplus in Australia, so we spent the money and built the plants. But we have been so short of dairy products that we have been buying Irish and New Zealand products to keep our export plants going. As the Minister knows, we came within a week of importing butter to Australia last year. 
The Government has put all its emphasis on butter. It bases its support on butter but it seems to me to be a narrow and inadequate base for the industry. The honourable member for Dawson indicated this in some detail. At the same time the United Kingdom butter market of 65,000 tons available to us will receive perhaps only 15,000 tons and at most 17,000 tons because we just do not have the production to meet our United Kingdom obligations. Perhaps it might be said that this does not matter because the British market will go anyway. Be that as it may, we have certainly lost recent opportunities there. We spent a lot of time and money developing a cheese market in Japan. But if further cuts are made and the doctrine of cutback applies we could lose further in this market. We could lose a market on which we have spent a lot of time, effort and money building up. Japanese buyers want to expand. They want to expand on a firm and secure basis of supply. If we fail to supply, they will look for another source of supply. Certainly they will not be harnessed to declining production. 
There is no doubt that production control by the Government has cost the Australian dairy farmers thousands of dollars in export orders.  Mr E.  C. McCartney of the Petersville Dairying Division was one of the protesters about this control. The Australian dairy industry had genuine nonspecultive orders for the supply in 1971-72 of about 200,000 tons of butter - 3 times the quantity that would be available. We have lost about $50m in export orders and dairy farmers may have lost as much as $1,000 each as a result of the confused policies that have been applied. The Government's alibi for its cut-back policies in dairying lies with the European Economic Community. We should examine what is happening in France. The number of French milk cows declined from 8.7 million to 8.4 million between January 1969 and January 1971. Declines also have occurred in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, West Germany and in western Europe as a whole. Comparing the mid- 1971 figures with those of 12 months previously it can be seen that dairy herds in the Netherlands, England and Wales have declined by 2 per cent. The future level of European milk production depends on 2 unknown factors - the duration and extent of the further reduction of the dairy herds and the milk yields per cow. 
If we look at the effects of the survey carried out recently by the European Economic Community we find that 57 per cent of farms with dairy cows had one to 5 head, 78 per cent of the farms bad one to 10 head and only 9 per cent of the total number of farms had more than 14 dairy cows. Farmers over the age of 50 years without heirs were running 58 per cent of the smaller dairy farms, averaging just over 4 cows a farm. These small farms accounted for one-quarter of the total EEC dairy herd of 22.9 million. The figures I have submitted to the Parliament indicate a continued decline in EEC dairy herds. I think that the exercise of comparing Australian dairy farms, and Australian farms generally, with European farms is futile. It is just not valid. It is true that the protectionist policies of the EEC have made an impact and have created some temporary surpluses but it has been the express policy of the EEC to obviate and reduce the level of production and the level of what they regard as excessive and uneconomic production. 
If we are to take the .view that the Australian dairy industry is to be equated with the industry I have just described in precise terms in Europe, I suggest that one just cannot do it and it is not a valid comparison at all. I reject the view that the Australian dairy industry should be further reduced. There is a need for further market development. There is a need to expose what I submit is the stupidity of the refusal to explore the possibilities of the combined butter ofl - vegetable oil blend. This, it seems to me, is compounding the wrong decision made in the wool industry, now being changed, not to get on to the sythetic blend band wagon. After years of delay the thinking has changed but we should recognise the need to explore this development thoroughly and completely. In fact, we have failed to do so. This is a serious omission and the Commonwealth should have shown clear leadership and ensured that at least a proper exploration of market potential was undertaken. 
I have a deep fear that our friends and rivals in New Zealand will seize the lead. They have been showing interesting and commendable initiative and I do not want to see us again left behind in this sphere by New Zealand initiatives. I do not mind any necessary national initiatives in the legislation; merely an indication that there is a concern and a preoccupation with what is regarded by the Government as surplus. 1 suggest that if one carries this view further forward one is indulging in what I would describe as economic nihilism. Whenever there is a marketing and selling problem the top shelf of the stone is cut back one year. If marketing difficul ties continue, the second shelf is cut back and so it continues down to the floor where all the shelf goods have been eliminated and production and so the problem is solved. That constitutes economic nihilism and I do not subscribe to it. The Government's solution seems to be in restrictions and cut backs. The Opposition's answer is new national initiatives and improved marketing and handling. Therein lies the difference between us. 
We have decided to take all of these Bills together and I shall apply myself briefly to the research sections of the legislation. The dairy industry does contribute substantially to research but there has been a breakdown in communication and a laggard situation has been allowed to develop in regard to the dissemination of information in the industry. I have here a report entitled 'Dairy Research'. It is the most recent report available from the Dairy Produce Research Committee and it describes the progress made in dairy industry research programme of 1958-1966. The calendar tells me that we are now in 1972. It is not good enough to have this sort of delay. 
As I understand it, the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation has been concerned to see that the results of research are made available more quickly than has been the case in the past. In fact, there has been pressure at each meeting of the federation that reports on all research projects should be provided with funds supplied by the research levy - the levy we are going to increase - and that the report should contain a brief description of each project, the status of the project, whether it has been completed, abandoned, deferred or is still continuing, and if abandoned or deferred the reason for such action. It has been suggested that the report should contain also a brief statement of the result of each project where completed, or an interim progress report where projects are continuing, deferred or abandoned, and a statement on the extent to which the results of each completed project or the interim results of continuing projects have been adopted by the appropriate sector of the industry. Where it appears that the results of research have not yet been adopted by a sector of the industry the report should contain an assessment of the apparent cause of such situation. - There is obviously a need at all levels of the industry for more involvement in what is going on in research and for results of research to be disseminated more quickly and applied more effectively. This is an age old problem in research and extension where we have in too many spheres the results of research taking 10 years before being applied constructively and properly in the paddock. In the 1970s we cannot afford a 10 year lag, and I suggest that the Minister apply himself to this aspect and also to updating the status of the reports from 1966 to 1972. The delays I have referred to are delays we cannot afford and I ask for some initiative in this direction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to my question No. 4293 that 157,000 Australian school children in rural areas do not receive free milk at school (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4579). 
If so, will he review the position and take appropriate steps to remedy this apparent injustice to country children. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer in preface to his Press statement, No. 45 of 1972, relating to the Australian Labor Party's immigration policy. I ask: Why did the Prime Minister feel it necessary to state his opposition to a policy which he said favoured southern European migrants - I take it that he meant migrants from Italy, Malta, Spain, Greece, France and presumably southern Switzerland and Yugoslavia - bringing out their relatives and friends? I also ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the chain migration concept which he attacked has been hailed by most demographers and social scientists as the best and easiest system of migration and one which has been described as migration without tears. Finally, will he reconsider his announced opposition to a priority for friends and relatives to be sponsored here and to chain migration, in the interests of the migrants themselves and of the community at large? 
asked the Minister for Trade  and Industry, upon notice: 
How much cheese has been imported into Australia in the financial year 1971-72 to date. 
What was the value of these imports. 
What percentage of cheese sold in Australia originated overseas in the years 1969-70, 1970-71 and 1971-72 to date. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he institute an immediate and urgent investigation into the case of the only rural retrainapplicant I have put forward for Riverina. 
Has his attention been drawn to the case of  Mr Edwin  Collier, of 494 Prune Street, Lavington, who after losing his farm and being found nonviable by the New South Wales Reconstruction Board has been forced to move with his wife and three young children into town. 
Is it a fact that his Department has been able to offer  Mr Collier  a total of only $56 towards his three-year retraining which will cost  Mr Collier  $1,728. 
If so, is this level of assistance not only Inadequate, but an insult . to farmers in need: of assistance. 
asked the Minister for Prim ary Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Wheat Board insure all wheat of which it takes delivery; if so, with whom does it insure. 
If the Board does insure, what premium has been paid by it in each State for each of the years 1967/68, 1968/69, 1969/70 and 1970/71. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the Government's commitment to cellular container ships 
How many ships authorised by the Government are being used by the Australian National Line 
What was the cost of these ships 
How many more are either being planned or on order 
What will be the cost of these ships 
Has the Government entered into any agreement with the conference lines to guarantee a profitability level covering not only cellular container ships and other vessels of the Australian National Line but also of the conference lines. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has a study been made of proposals for the formation of an Asian-Pacific Economic Community with Australia taking the initiative. 
Have any preliminary talks been entered into with neighbouring nations, apart from New Zealand with which we already have special trading arrangements, to explore this concept. 
Have any, initiatives been taken by Australia through United Nations agencies to develop and advance trade in the Asian-Pacific region. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is thepresent position of the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation established by decision of the Premiers' Conference in July 1964. 
Will he bring up-to-date his answer to Question No. 3794 (Hansard, 10th September 1971, page 1148). 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the reason for the discrepancy in the figures provided by the Australian Meat Board and the United States Department of Agriculture on Australian meat sales to the United States of America in 1971. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many requests have been received from the animal industry since 1958 for the import of new genetic material not available by imports of semen. 
How many have been approved. 
Can the Minister say when the New Zealand high security animal quarantine station on Somes Island In Wellington Harbour will be in operation. 
Will the Minister seek to use these facilities untilthe Government establishes a similar facility in Australia. 
What stage has been reached on the Australian facility and is it possible to indicate now when it will be operative. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What finance has the Commonwealth made available in each of the last 5 years either directly or through State instrumentalities towards the provision of or improvement in bulk handling facilities at all Australian ports to facilitate the export of (a) Minerals and Secondary Products; and (b) Primary Products. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he initiate action to encourage private forestry as  a  means of rural reconstruction: 
Will he examine the New South Wales Forestry Commission practice of developing  a  plantation by paying the entire development costs, meeting the interest for the 13 years during which no return is received and recognising that the complete outlay plus accumulated interest will not be recouped until the final cut 45 years from commencement. 
Would an application of similar principles to the private farmer cost no more than the present system and assist in establishing much needed pine plantations while giving new opportunities sorely needed by farmers at this time. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did he state to 300 farmers at Laidley, Queensland, in January 1972 that there is a serious defect in the rural reconstruction scheme. 
Is it a fact thatit is not possible under the scheme for sons to buy out their fathers when the time has come for the property to be handed over to young trained men and at the same time provide the fathers with funds for the start of retirement; if so, is this the defect to which he referred. 
Did he agree to examine this apparent anomaly. 
If so, has he done so and what are the results of the examination; if not, when will he do so. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Will he list the individual amounts received by each of the 46 advertising agencies categorised in the answer to question No. 5056 (Hansard, 21st March 1972, page 947) as substantially Australian owned and substantially foreign owned, out of the $6,473,753 paid by the Commonwealth during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Is he now in a position to evaluate the policy guidelines of authorities of the United States of America and Canada on the placement of national advertising which he undertook to examine and report upon in answer to a previous question. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Under what authority has he established  a  shippers' council. 
What are the functions of the council 
What is its membership. 
Who selected the members. 
What export commodities are covered. 
Are there any exports not covered by the council. 
What authority has the council to negotiate, 
Has it authority to enforce any policy or agreement in respect of any industry which may decide to opt out of council activities and arrangements. 
What role will this new council play in negotiating the freight rates for the current season's wool clip in the light of the recent statement by  Sir William  Gunn,  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board, that the Board will negotiate in London with buyers and shippers. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What marketing research has been carried out by the Australian Wool Board. 
Will he make available reports based on this research; if not, why not 
Has any cost benefit analysis been carried out on wool promotion. 
What sum has been spent in Australia on wool promotion in each year since the inception of the promotion scheme. 
There is a danger that this entire legislative operation may become an empty gesture, yet cause hardship in unexpected quarters. 1 commend the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who has just resumed his seat for his modest revolt against the 

 Deputy Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and his Cabinet colleagues Who have agreed to and supported this legislation. I would hope that when the honourable member understands the full purport of the amendment that we have moved he will vote for it. What we have said is that this is an inequitable piece of legislation. We say, in essence, one in all in; one out all out. This has been said by members of the Opposition. If honourable members opposite read very carefully the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition they will understand it better. If they are sincere they will put their vote where their words are. After all, this is the year of a dying government. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister wishes to exercise some influence I think it would be a very good idea if he did so on this occasion. 
To suggest that the legislation is not a ban on cigarette advertising is just simply not recognising reality. Is it seriously suggested by some supporters of the Government who have spoken that a firm will pay for an advertisement which says: 'Smoke my brand of cigarettes and you will drop dead sooner? This is rubbish. When this Bill in fact is enacted it will mean the absence from television and radio of cigarette advertising. Let us be quite clear. The proposition to which we are committed is that there should be a complete ban on cigarette advertising. But what is proposed in the legislation before us is simply a partial ban. It means cutting television revenue, for example, by 12 per cent. There is no other restriction outside radio and television; so it is no great effort for an advertising agency to switch the advertising vote from one sector of the media to another. One week we get cigarettes between television and radio programmes and the next week after the legislation is passed we will have an increased diet of cigarette advertising between news pages and in the pages of glossy magazines. Another avenue of advertising that has been extended considerably in the United States recently has been on the advertising hoardings. They are bigger and brighter than ever before and they appear everywhere, except in church. 
So, there is an inadequacy and also an inequity here. One half of the media is penalised and proscribed and the other half is let off scot-free. It is not an equitable situation and it could lead to a crisis in Australian radio and television, particularly in country areas. It could mean retrenched personnel and restrictions which the Government, in its usual haphazard fashion, has made no provision to overcome. I suggest that we are putting forward a positive proposal. Firstly, we are consistent - one out, all out. Secondly, there should be a positive Commonwealth programme on national health - an advisory programme which will utilise the forcibly abandoned time - on radio and television. Here we can do something positive to develop health programmes which are badly needed. We can give a lead in areas that have long been ignored. 
The time could be used to bring out the truth about so many of the products which are foisted upon our people at this time. There is no doubt in my mind that Australian housewives are being sold a pup daily by exaggerated claims. A visitor from another world tuning in to a regular commercial programme could be excused for thinking that we are a nation of neurotics in need of constant treatment for an incredible range of ailments and in need of constant washing by a bewildering number of patent products. Let us use the airways to teach and to expose the fallacies and dangers of anti-social habits. I think that the whole Parliament should get behind the positive programme we have put for-, ward - to invest in valuable time - in the interests of the health of the people. 
References have been made to the tobacco growers. I agree entirely that the nation should stand behind the growers and initiate a cutover programme when it becomes necessary. I do not want to see any crocodile tears from Government supporters about the fate of tobacco growers. The Government stood idly by while the entire tobacco industry in many areas, such as Barham in the Riverina, was wiped out progressively and selectively by foreign tobacco firms dedicated to importing their leaf from parent firms. I say 'selectively' because one centre after another was marked for extirpation. It was only the intervention led by my distinguished predecessor in the parliament of New South Wales, George 
Enticknap, who was Minister for Agriculture and Conservation in that State, that led to some stabilisation and introduced  a  better limit on foreign leaf imports. 
My own view is that the Government, if it is genuine in seeking  a  limitation of the habit, should, firstly, ban all forms of advertising and promotion to keep to the dictum that is fair and equitable, namely, one out all out. That principle is contained  in  the amendment. Secondly, the Government should initiate positive public health programmes on television and radio  to  take up the slack in time and finance. Thirdly, there should be immediate planning to cut over valuable and skilled growers from this industry to other forms of primary industry when and if this becomes necessary. We should not wait until they are in trouble; we should plan now for future action. There is no doubt where we stand on this matter, but I feel that it is  an  exercise in humbug to say that this is something less than a total ban and to say that there should be fair play - these statements came from honourable members  on  the Government benches - when in fact all Government supporters are pledged to vote for something which, as we see it, is inequitable and may well be  a  farce and not in the interests of either country, media or of the health of the nation. 
 I rise tonight to raise a matter because of my long association with the Good Neighbour Movement of Australia and also because some of the people concerned have spread to areas as far as the electorate of Riverina. I had previously mentioned to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  that I would be raising this matter tonight and I am glad to see him in the chamber. Migrants from  60  countries are still coming to Australia and in the past year or so nearly  2,000  of the flower nf South American single womanhood have come to Sydney and Melbourne from Peru, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay. They have come in circumstances which have earned Australia a bad name, particularly in Peru. About  1,000  attractive, well educated and well raised senoritas have come from Peru and are currently in Sydney. About  700  have gone to Melbourne. I rise tonight to draw attention to their plight, to the inadequacies of the immigration programme and to propose immediate corrective action by our authorities both here and in the South American countries concerned. 
It is the opinion of the girls themselves that the Australian Government has brought them to this country as marriage fodder. They point out that of the 1,000 Peruvians in Sydney there are about 3 males. So they note Australia has recruited this large number of single girls and encouraged them to come here while finding visas for only a small number of men. These single girls find when they get here that there is a big imbalance in migrant intake - they meet more migrants than they do Australians - in favour of single men from many countries. Rightly or wrongly they feel that the Government has looked upon them as marriage fodder to correct an imbalance in the Australian community. 
A meeting of a representative group of young Peruvian senoritas and Australians who have been trying to help them took place in Sydney recently. I raise this matter tonight following that quite informal meeting at the request of both the girls and their Australian friends. A uniform complaint is that the picture they had of Australia and opportunities here has proved false. Almost all of these girls have had tertiary education. They left Peru in most cases because of unrest at university and uncertainty about graduate job opportunities. They came here with a picture in their minds of a wealthy country, a wealthy people and boundless opportunities for work commensurate with their education. They believed that they would be able to take a 3 months crash course in English which would be adequate. They believed that positions would then be readily available at good salaries that would enable them to have reasonable accommodation and a reasonable life. They were told also that they would have good hotel accommodation on arrival and no language difficulties. Remember that we are dealing with girls from sheltered homes in most cases, a high standard of living, speaking no English or very little English, knowing nothing of Australia and having no kinship links here. So they arrive and find that they have a week's hotel stay. That is arranged. But after that they have been moved to inner city accommodation shared with many who are very nigh destitute. In all this time there has been no provision - so they complain - of Spanish speakers, and they have had to stumble along alone but for tenuous contact with other girls from their home country as and when they could get together. 
They report that eventually an officer arrived with the anxiously awaited news of employment. One girl with 2 years university training in public administration was put on a machine in a factory to make trousers. She had never been in a factory before. She found it impossible to follow the instructions. Not surprisingly she ruined 3 pairs of trousers. After that a very tolerant employer - the employer has my deep sympathy - put her to work in the pressing room, where she remains. I think that is where the trousers end up before their eventual dispersement. Another girl, a fully qualified teacher in her own country found herself a domestic in a hospital. Yet another was given an unskilled hospital job, although on slightly better status. Another fully qualified teacher found refuge in the office of Catholic Welfare in Sydney. I have been writing to State and Federal authorities on her behalf to try to get her back into her profession. 
I draw attention to what they have reported in connection with the crash language course. They had pinned their hopes on this. They discovered that there is a 3 months crash course but there is a waiting period of about li years to get into it, with migrants and Colombo Plan students all trying to participate. Some of the girls fondly imagined wealthy Australians with big houses and complements of servants in the best tradition of the Deep South or the deeper south of the Spanish Americas, and they ended up as suburban skivvies. This is rather different from what they had in their minds. Naturally they have written home, and their experiences and disappointments have made the front pages in Peru. One mother was so distraught that she called her son in the United States and had him fly to Sydney to take his sister home. Ironically enough this was a girl who had survived the initial difficulties of the settlement period and wanted to stay. But such was the influence of a bad Press. The fact is that our national image is being smudged in the southern Americas. There is no doubt that very many of these nearly 2,000 senoritas believe that they have been imported as marriage fodder. 
So we need action. I ask the Minister for Immigration to review urgently the briefing given in South America to single girls applying to come to Australia, to ensure that they do not leave Peru and other countries with the wrong picture of Australia and the conditions here. I am not saying that anyone in the Embassy deliberately sought to mislead, because this would be rubbish. But there is no doubt that what Embassy officials are saying and what the girls are taking in is not a right and proper communication of the situation here. So the officials have to improve their communication with the prospective migrants. I also ask the Minister to arrange for a Spanish speaking task force urgently to ensure that these girls are not being exploited. 1 do not need to stress the point to the Minister. There are considerable dangers for large numbers of pretty, well educated but lonely girls in a big, strange foreign city with all sorts of temptations and predators. I think that the Minister with his sensitivity will recognise the need to do something in this regard. This task forces could be made up of personnel retained by the Department of Immigration - very able and skilled personnel - and also representatives of the Good Neighbour Council in the 2 cities of Sydney and Melbourne. 
I also ask him to explore the proposal being advanced by a welfare officer with the Catholic Migration Office in Sydney to establish some improved and continuing hostel accommodation. Above all there is an evident need to inquire into the situation in regard to language training. There is no doubt that the promises about the language seem to have been pretty definite. They were probably made in error, but promises they were, and we should try to redeem them. I would stress that these girls are not $20 tourists at the Australian taxpayers' expense, but have raised their own fares and paid their own way. If the nation is to continue to recruit some of the flower of South American womanhood I want to be sure that we need them; that there is a place for them; that we fulfil our promises, and that we do not by either accident or design recruit marriage fodder. I seem to recall that in the last century *.he colonial government ran female factories from which single males selected their mates. That system is a century out of date. I do not think we ought to revive it in 1972. I do not think that the Depart ment set out deliberately to do that, but I suggest that there is a need for action in this regard. I am grateful to the Minister for Immigration for being here tonight to listen to the report compiled after a full and extensive discussion of the problem with a representative cross-section of the girls concerned. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications have been lodged by Australian residents for the entry into Australia of their adopted Vietnamese children. 
How many applications: 
have been approved; 
have been refused; and 
remain to be processed. 
On what grounds were applications refused. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is there any Australian participation in the chip mill project operated by Daishowa Harris at Twofold Bay, New South Wales. 
Did the Commonwealth Government approve the necessary import of capital. 
Was there any limitation set upon overseas ownership; if not, why not. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me from moving that this House should take immediate note of the drastic drop in the growth rate of wine sales, as revealed in the annual report of the  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia, due to the imposition by the Government of the SO cents a gallon excise on wine and that the Parliament should abolish the wine excise in view of its demonstrable adverse effects on wine grape growers and the industry as a whole. 
The position is that the Government has failed to release the Grant Report, which is long overdue to see the light of day, and it has failed also, despite indications to the contrary, to abolish this iniquitous tax. Parliament is due to go into recess for  2i  months. Therefore it is important that we debate these matters. 
By way of amplification of the motion, I point out that  Mr Jeffrey  Penfold-Hyland,  president  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia, has said that the growth rate of wine sales has dropped by 0.2 per cent in 1970-71, which is a long way below the growth rate of soft drink and beer consumption. It is important that the House have an opportunity to debate the situation. The Government's own advisers warned the Government that if it imposed this iniquitous excise, wine sales would drop by 20 per cent. The situation is that the Government has been told by its own advisers, by the Australian Wine Board, by the Federal Grape Growers Council, by the Winemakers' Association - in fact by everyone connected with this industry - that the excise is damaging. If we are to go into recess without debating the matter, we will ignore the whole industry. 
The situation is that so far the Government has ignored the advice and the warnings given to it, and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has stalled on the release of the Grant Report. 
The only reference I shall make to the speech which the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  has just made to the House is to point out one glorious inconsistency. In the course of his remarks he said that 20 years was not too long for a migrant to wait to receive a pension. I point out that the honourable member has to wait only 8 years to receive his parliamentary pension, and he can take it where he will. This is the exact position that we take on this matter. 
There is a very simple proposition before the Parliament, and it is that an Australian citizen should be able to take his pension with him wherever he might go. The idea is that this pension is his right; it is not his privilege. This is the simple proposition that we put forward not only on behalf of the people who come to Australia but for all Australians. Even the honourable member for Mitchell may want to flee his electorate perhaps sooner than he has planned, and if he wishes we will be glad to see that not only his parliamentary pension, after 8 years, is paid to him, but also, if there are any other pensions due to him, that they are paid to him, and there is nothing wrong with that as a proposition. As a matter of fact, this is the proposition that we are putting before the Parliament at the present time. 
The Government has been less than just to many of the migrants who have come here since the war. After all, this nation needed migrants, lt wanted them to come, it encouraged them to come, and it has reaped the benefit of the labour of 2.5 million new people. At the same time, the Government has practised - I think this should be said on this occasion - a whole range of discriminations which I find offensive and unjust, and this matter of pensions is only one of them. The Government has tended to take a man from the bosom of his family and encourage him to come and work here. The categories for which entry was encouraged were all right. A man was encouraged to come here if he was in those categories. But it was 20 years before the Government recognised the basic humanity of facilitating family reunions. Tens of thousands of migrants went into deep debt to bring even their wives and children to join them. They paid 20 per cent and 30 per cent interest on loans to bring their families with them, while some favoured categories of migrants could hop on a plane and come here with ease and maximum help. 
We have drawn migrants from 50 countries, and there is a great range of discrimination practised between all of them. Even today, those of us who have been concerned with migrant welfare and have achieved some assistance for family reunions, find that there is discrimination continuing in the matter of the issue of visas. If a mother or a grandmother of a migrant wants to come and visit her family, in some cases it can take anything up to 6 months to clear her through all the long drawn out procedures. Of course, in other cases there is no trouble at all, and this constitutes discrimination. I submit that this Bill follows the 20-year-old pattern of discrimination between one migrant and another which has been practised by the Government. 
There is much talk in Australia of cutting down migration, of discouraging new settlement here. If the Government wants to discourage migration, all it has to do is to continue to practise some of the discrimination that it is practising at the present time. ] submit that the Government has  not  kept pace with the good will and unifying influence of the Australian people generally who have held out a helping hand and a welcoming hand to migrants. Certainly the Government has lagged behind the generosity of the people generally  in  this regard. In fact, 1 think  most  Australians would be shocked to find that distinctions are made between one category of migrant and another. I shall just quote in passing one example which concerns the  matter  of income tax. If a man settles in the Federal Republic  of  Germany, Canada or the United States  of  America and he has to maintain the members of his family in his country of birth, he can do this and claim income tax deductions. There is a facility to help members of his family. Surely this is something about which we should be concerned. 
I submit again that the Federal Government by its attitude to pensions, is perpetuating undesirable divisions in the community. Indeed, the Government's present proposals will do more than that. They will create more divisions and more categories of citizens. The burden of the Opposition's proposition is that there should be no divisions and no distinctions and that we should recognise that a  pension  is a right and not a privilege. Of course, the Government's attitude is  in  contrast. Let us look at the divisions created by this legislation. For some years the Government has applied the rule that Australians, whether they are native born or naturalised, should have 10 years' residence in Australia before they qualify for a pension. As a result of bilateral agreements with only 2 governments it has been possible for former United Kingdom and New Zealand citizens to take their pensions back to retirement in their own countries if they so desire, and there is certainly nothing wrong with that. The principle has been established for 2 categories of migrants. What the Government now proposes will create greater hardships for Australians as well as for 
United Kingdom and New Zealand citizens, because they will have to wait 20 years before they receive a pension. 
Let us see what this proposed 20 year limit means. It certainly will create great hardships for people who, after the middle of their lives, come to Australia for many reasons. Very often they come to join the younger members of the family who are here. They come here, very properly, and they are welcomed by the Australian people. Surely 20 years is not to be considered a reasonable period. I know it has been said that the Government in its generosity - perhaps next year - will look at this matter, but surely the principle should be accepted now. Why postpone it? If there are any doubts in the Government's mind why can they not be resolved now? 1 know that the Government has made gestures, but surely that is not adequate at the present time, because if we are to change anything that is on the statute book it means that we have to come back to Parliament and make the change here. 
The Government has made it clear that pension portability will depend upon negotiated agreements with other countries. So even this 20 year residence scheme depends on the Government negotiating with, presumably, up to 50 countries or 50 areas. I am not quite sure what happens when the Government cannot reach agreement with the country of origin of the migrant because, perhaps, the country no longer exists. This is a real consideration. In any case, as has been pointed out by my colleagues who spoke earlier, the very passing of this legislation does not mean that there will be portability of pensions. They still have to be negotiated country by country, and this could take a very long time. Where there are no countries of origin, the migrant just is not covered. According to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the discussions leading to the adoption of the 20-year residence scheme have been continuing for 5 years. This is the end result after 5 years. The Government is proceeding at a snail's pace to recognise a very simple and fundamental right that is recognised by other countries. So we have this situation of delay and inadequacy at the present time. 
I shall now point to some of the further divisions. In the 20 years residence scheme there will be a series of major divisions, and let me point them out to the Minister. An Australian born citizen at 65 years of age can go to his home town, and enjoy his pension, fie can also live abroad for as long as he likes, just so long as he goes to only 2 countries - the United Kingdom or New Zealand. There is a second category of migrants - the migrants from the United Kingdom and New Zealand who can return to their home towns with a pension. This is very desirable, too. Then there is a third category - the migrants from all other countries with whom reciprocity agreements have been concluded. They will have the right to wait 20 years to receive a pension. Ff one of these migrants is 55 years old when he arrives in Australia, it means that at 75 years of age he will be able to take his pension and go to his home town in his country of origin. That is the third category. The fourth category include migrants who come from a country which probably no longer exists or which, for one reason or another wish to sign a treaty of reciprocity. In this case there is no portability. So none of the rights no matter how limited enjoyed by those in the first 3 categories are enjoyed by those in the fourth category. Surely this is divisive and is divisiveness which is undesirable as between one Australian citizen and another. We have divisions now in the community, but we are going to increase the number of divisions. If we have this sort of situation, obviously it will create tensions in areas in which there need not be tension. 
We already have divisions between one citizen and another. If I may mention one in passing, even an Australian citizen who has been naturalised can be deported from his own country - that is, Australia - if it is the wish of the Government to do so. This is a provision which is retained in the legislation and which the Opposition has opposed for a very long time, lt is not good to have a law which does not apply equally between citizens. This is the situation that we have at the present time in many respects. I submit that the measure before the House is an inadequate one. It is a divisive measure. The signing of treaties of reciprocity is going to be a very interesting exercise because all nations which will be concerned have different levels of social services and have different qualifying periods to entitle a person for benefits. I am not sure how we can have reciprocity when there are entirely different qualifying periods. For example, after contributing for 5 years to the national health scheme a male Maltese citizen qualifies for a pension at 61 years of age. In Italy it is a 15-year qualification period. In other countries it is 10 years. This makes the Government's approach to writing of treaties of reciprocity much more difficult. 
I am not altogether sure what the philosophy is in making these distinctions. I cannot understand why we should be asked to accept a divisive philosophy in this matter. The German citizen who becomes an Australian loses all his rights in Germany. He loses everything. This has been one of the greatest worries. A year ago 1 received from Germany the text of a treaty which had been resolved between the Dominion of Canada and Germany. A convention on social security which was made between the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom of Great Britain came into force 10 years ago. lt seems extraordinary to me that the British and Germans, who 27 years ago were at war, got together 10 years ago on reciprocity without any great difficulty or delay, yet it has taken us twice the time to come up with a less sound proposition. 
I do not think there is much merit in what we have been able to do here. The West German Government has sought an agreement, f know from my own knowledge that since July 1969 it has very actively sought this agreement because of the position in which former German citizens were placed. I again say to the House that after pursuing a migration programme for 25 years we still have this discrimination in pensions. We have discrimination in conditions of settlement. We have discrimination even in naturalisation, which is undesirable, ft may be said that the law has not been invoked. All I want to say is that it is not enough to have a big stick in the cupboard and to say: 'I do not use it.' If it is there and it is legal and proper to use it, then obviously it is a continuing threat. 1 want to say also that in contrast to this measure, other measures that have been enacted by other countries which are actively seeking migrants have been so much more generous. I do not suggest that the Minister for Social Services has set his heart against any improvement in this measure. I sympathise with him in many ways because I believe that if he were a free agent he would probably have agreed with the Opposition and said to the House: 'The pension is a right, let us have it as a right and let us have no more nonsense to drag out long debates on technicalities.' In fact this Bill is the result of a decision by the Government and a decision by the Cabinet. 1 cannot understand how they reached it. I find it regrettable that they have done so. I feel that it would be far better for them to have second thoughts and to say: 'Let us have an Australian pension for Australian citizens and Australian residents as a right that they may take with them wherever they desire to go in their retirement.' I hope that this proposition will be adopted with unanimity by this Parliament, if not now, then, I hope to goodness, in the near future. 
I rise to move an amendment to the motion that is presently before the House. The substance of my amendment is- 

 - Mr Speaker, 

I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I was. I just want to clear up finally the misrepresentation of my position this morning by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in an exchange in the cross benches. To put the Ministers clearly and definitely into the proper position I refer to the minutes, which I have here, of the meeting on 16th May of the Rural Resources Committee of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party in which it was resolved to suspend Standing Orders or to take equivalent action on the last day of sitting - if no action has been taken by the Government by that time - to debate the wine tax. We waited patiently for the Government to repent its sins. There was no prior knowledge. As a matter of fact, the only knowledge I had came slightly after 5 o'clock from the Press Gallery when I was informed that the cut in the excise had already been announced there. I took a very serious view of that. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is a new strain of poplar, which is suitable for matchwood, plywood, toys, furniture and packaging and which would help obviate the $200m a year Australia spends on timber imports, available lor planting in Australia. 
If so, are hopes for the utilisation  of  this and other strains of poplar being literally blighted by the appearance of a fungus 'Melampsora 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Will he order an immediate inquiry into allegations that the telephone of Duncan McWade Industries Pty Ltd, of 51 Market Street, Condell Park, New South Wales, has been tapped or interfered with in some way. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Can he say how much of the $1.75 being charged for 'The Little Red Schoolbook' now on public unrestricted sale to adults and children alike in Canberra it repatriated overseas to the original Danish originators of the trash who retain copyright. 
 I rise to support strongly the amendment that has been moved by my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  on behalf of the Opposition. I support particularly the call for a national, co-ordinated timber development programme. During the course of the debate there has been reference to a disagreement - I think the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  referred to some misun derstandings - between the State of New South Wales and the Commonwealth of Australia in relation to this measure. I would describe it as more than a misunderstanding. There is no doubt, if we are to believe the various references that have been made by honourable members on both sides of the House, that there has been a considerable rat and indeed a considerable clash on this matter. 
The measure before us is the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill. In his secondreading speech the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
. by comparison with the last year of the first programme - 
That is, the first 5 year programme -  the annual rate of planting will be reduced from 58,300 acres to 54,680 acres. 
We must take note of that effective reference. The Minister went on to say: 
. following discussions with the Slates a base-year acreage of 29,680 acres was agreed to by the Stales and the Commonwealth raised its level of assistance to 25,000 acres. 
The major point there is that it gives the impression of sweet, reasonable unanimity on this matter. It also gives an impression of Commonwealth generosity. I suggest that the timber industry is important to the nation, and particularly to the Commonwealth Government, which is responsible for the nation's trading. I draw attention to the fact that the Minister pointed out the major concern we must have for the nation's accounts in relation to this industry. He said: 
It is estimated that in the financial year 1970- 71 Australian consumption of forest products was in excess of S900m and domestic production was $650m. 
That represents a considerable gap which the Opposition would like to see filled. 
When one looks at the effect of the programme which has been announced - I have referred to the disagreements with New South Wales - the main thing to notice is that it means an effective cut back in plans in various centres in New South Wales. As my friend and colleague from Tasmania, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  pointed out, this industry means jobs and opportunties. Indeed it means the whole of the basic existence of country centres. I represent some of them, so I speak in relation to this matter with some fervour. But let me come back to the disagreement in relation to the programme that has been referred to by honourable members on both sides of the House. In a letter to my former colleague in the Parliament of New South Wales,  Mr Don  Day, the member for Casino, the Minister for Conservation in New South Wales,  Mr W.  C. Fife, said; 
The cut back in the programme has forced the Forestry Commission to review its plantation projects and, as a result, one of the areas which has been affected is the small project at  Whiprie  State Forest in Casino district. 
The indication there is that there has been a cut back in the programme, lt might be said that overall there has been no cut back but that there has been a change in the pace of development. 
Let me point out what the change in the pace of development actually means. Under the original Commonwealth-State agreement on softwood planting programmes, the Commonwealth provided loans to New South Wales, as to the other States, to meet the additional annual cost of new plantations over a base area of 8,100 acres each year. That agreement, which began on 1st July 1968, was to run for a period of 5 years. In anticipation of similar arrangements continuing after 1971, the New South Wales Government was planning to achieve an annual rate of new plantation development of 25,000 acres a year by 1975-76. The Commonwealth put a ceiling on this. It reduced it. The effect of the policy that the Commonwealth has adopted and which it has dictated to the States is that in New South Wales the Tumut planting programme has been reduced by 3,000 acres, the Bathurst programme has been reduced by 1,000 acres, the softwood plantation programmes in the Casino and Coffs Harbour districts have been stopped completely, the Glen Innes programme will not be expanded and the commencement of the Barrington Tops programme in the Gloucester district has been deferred indefinitely by the New South Wales Government. Thus cut has brought a considerable number of protests from both sides of the political spectrum - from  Mr Don  Day, the State Labor member for Casino,  Senator Douglas  McClelland and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  in the Federal 
House. The honourable member for Lyne is quoted in the 'Gloucester Advocate' of 8th February as saying: 
We will not allow it to go against what was  a  Party policy on decentralisation. 
He was saying that the cuts mean that there is an accentuation of rural unemployment. This is a matter of real concern. I am pleased to say that the honourable member for Lyne associated himself with criticisms made by the Opposition. He made references to them, as well he might, as a Government member. I suggest that he should have done more than just mildly criticise the measure, because the whole of the needs of the countryside at the moment have been overlooked in the planmn 
The Commonwealth has said: 'This is the rate of expansion which we have determined is optimum at the present time'. I ask: Optimum for what? I would like the Minister to explain that to me, because obviously at the moment there are unused labour resources in the countryside. There is a need to inject some confidence, some job opportunities and some hard cash into the countryside. This is a wonderful opportunity to do just that. I want to know why it was considered that this was the optimum rate at this stage. Surely it cannot be in relation to production. I know that there is always a need to plan nationally so that we do not have too much of this or too much of that. I think the emphasis should be on having too little of some of the products which we need. In the matter that is before us, judging from the Minister's second-reading speech, we obviously have too little, overall, in terms of timber products. 
If we want to look ahead the major point that must be made is that at the present time we have a serious backlog of housing. In the State housing commission in Sydney there is a 3-year backlog. We have a lot of leeway to catch up. I suggest that we should not be planning as if the nation were going to come to an end tomorrow and that progress - such as it is - were just going to stop where it is. Our progress is not very impressive in economic terms or in real terms. Surely we should be planning for a movement forward. If we do that in regard to the timber industry we should be making sure that in the present situation the programme of timber development - the softwood project particularly - is accelerated. I want to point out that the misunderstanding that was referred to by Government speakers is a very real one. I would like the Minister to reply to the matters and the doubts that have been raised by the Minister for Conservation in New South Wales who obviously is unhappy with the programme and with the agreements. In fact, the summation could be that there is less money immediately available, so the softwood planting programme has been reduced. 
There are other considerations to which we must have regard. Of course, we have to look ahead at the trading patterns which will appertain. I would say that in relation to timber we have to make sure that we are in a position of some independence and strength. It would be the height of stupidity for this country to neglect to have the raw materials that it needs for housing and other purposes, relying perhaps on other areas outside the nation which may want to trade with us and be involved with us but in fact may not have an adequate programme to supply us. This reliance must be rejected because it is the business of the national Government to look after the national interest now and in the future. This is the reason for the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. We do not think that the planning goes far enough. We certainly do not think it is adequate. We do not think that a proper agreement has been reached with the States. The honourable member for Braddon made the point very well in relation to Tasmania. I have tried to indicate the serious disturbances in the minds of people in New South Wales. 
Therefore there are answers that are demanded here. But looking ahead we have to ensure that we have an adequate supply of this valuable raw material. We cannot go ahead on the basis that we will be relying on someone else to meet our own needs. Indeed, if we had too much timber it would be a blessing and not a curse. I might say that there are across the nation many scalded and overgrazed areas as well as many areas which have been fire cleared, blasted by bush fires. Other areas have been cleared irresponsibly by people. A great many such areas need to be re- timbered. This is an aspect which has not been given enough attention. Far from wanting to slow down the programme, I believe there is a need to accelerate it perhaps in new directions. Quite recently I raised with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  by way of a question on notice the proposition whether he would initiate action to encourage private forestry as a means of rural reconstruction. I asked whether the Minister would examine the New South Wales Forestry commission practice of developing a plantation by paying the entire development costs, meeting the interest for the 13 years during which no return is received and recognising that the compile outlay plus accumulated interest will not be recouped until the final cut 45 years, in some cases, from commencement. I also asked the Minister whether an application of similar principles to the private farmer would cost no more than the present system and assist in establishing much needed pine plantations while giving new opportunities sorely needed by farmers at this time. In his reply the Minister admitted that there was no specific provision for moneys to be used for the encouragement of private forestry. He said that no doubt the State authorities were considering them. 
Obviously this is a matter which comes very much within the purview of the Commonwealth. Again, it comes back to our amendment and request that we plan nationally in this regard because obviously there should be an integration of public planting programmes with private planting programmes. Certainly it needs special attention. I might say that it needs some special assistance because of the long term nature of the project from the Commonwealth. It is true, too, that the Commonwealth has a responsibility to have a look at some projects. I refer here to chip mill projects particularly, which have been approved by State authorities, sometimes doubtfully, and where there could be despoliation of the environment. I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  not so very long ago about Australian participation in a chip mill project at Twofold Bay in New South Wales. There has been serious concern that the undertakings that were given that the environment would not be unduly interfered with, that the scenic beauty of the headlands would be retained or at least restored to some degree do not seem to have been honoured. I am still seeking ministerial replies to queries on that. 
There is no doubt at all that there has to be some balance between a progressive planning programme of the type we are discussing tonight in regard to softwood plantations and the conservation -of areas that would be better left alone. There is no doubt that in certain localities this applies. It also means that in certain other localities we should be seeing to it that there is not undue disturbance of valuable and unique environments which we want to preserve. But basically in our planning and thinking we have applied ourselves to the fact that there is at the present time a cutback in the rate - and I am not talking about the overall total of development. This seems to me to be wrong and short sighted in view of the situation in the countryside. I would ask the Minister for National Development when he replies to this debate to think again about the rate of expansion that he has approved - the rate of expansion which the Commonwealth has dictated to the States, especially to the States of New South Wales and Tasmania which have been mentioned tonight. Certainly the Minister should have in mind the creation of new jobs and certainly the preservation of present ones in the hard pressed countryside, particularly in the areas where we can undertake these most desirable developments from the national point of view. 
I draw attention to an inadequacy in the Bill which has not been touched on and which I am entitled to raise at this stage. There is no provision in the Bill for a proper and continuing assessment of the value of the expenditure to the nation. There is no provision for proper integration of research by the Commonwealth Scientific and Indus trial Research Organisation, State Government departments and universities. The Bill does not have written into it any means of assessing the position which arises when international corporations that have local offshoots benefit from public expenditure or receive public expenditures and then apply the results of those expenditures to their parent companies overseas. 
I suggest that there has been an omission not considering this aspect. It is a matter that has arisen in Canada particularly, and it has thrown into doubt the value of such grants in Canada. The domination of our industry by multi-national corporations is a matter that arises regularly. I think this is a matter that should have. been dealt with. I think the Canadian experience was well worth noting. I feel that the Minister could well have guided the House onthis matter. Public expenditure in our country is being applied to research that could well be referred overseas to other people's benefit through other people's head offices, and we may very well not be receiving the results of research that we have paid for under this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will his Department investigate the McWade Emission Control Unit which the inventor,  Mr Duncan  McWade submits is a means of reducing car pollution and which it is claimed will also reduce engine wear, ensure better performance and greater engine power. 
Did  Mr McVVade  offer his invention to the Commonwealth Government in 1969; if so, what were the reasons for its rejection. 
Can he say whether the New Zealand Government has announced its intention to make emission control units compulsory for al] cars. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In view of the announcement of new United States meat inspection regulations enforcing considerably more restrictive provisions relating to tuberculosis in cattle, will he list the areas in Australia not now covered by the current tuberculosis testing and brucellosis eradication campaign which has been operating for the last 3 years. 
Will he confer immediately with the States and authorities concerned to ensure that the scheme is extended as a matter of urgency to cover all beef and dairy producing areas that are currently outside the operation of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Trade and  Industry,  upon notice: 
Has a study been made of proposals for the formation of a National Trade Bureau with membership open to all persons and organisations interested in international trade and foreign relationships. 
If not, is it intended to initiate a study. 
If a study has been made, will he indicate whether he favours the concept and whether consideration is being given to its implementation. 
asked the Minister  for  Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government been asked for 10 years to facilitate the entry of Australian citrus to Japan. 
Did he tell me in answer to question No. 1320 (Hansard, 15th September 1970, page 1169) that negotiations began as long ago as 1962 and that the last case for the lifting of the Japanese ban on Australian oranges had been presented in 1967. 
What steps have been taken since then, and how many countries now supply citrus to Japan. 
What is the present position in relation to the matter. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the basis of the reference made to Northern Ireland in the annex to the ministerial statement of 9th May 1972 on Australian foreign policy. 
Has he sought the views of the British  and  Irish Governments. 
Have these Governments put their points of view to the Australian Government; if so, when and in what form. 
If no expressions of views have been sought or given, what assurance is there that the reference is completely adequate and not one-sided. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What overseas companies have commenced beef raising and handling operations in Australia since 1969, where are these operations located and from what countries did the companies come. 
How many overseas companies are now engaged in primary industry in Australia and what are their countries of origin. 
What is the gross value of the assets of these companies. 
How much overseas capital have these companies imported into Australia to date. 
How much profit has been repatriated overseas by these companies. 
asked  the  Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Have research efforts over 3i years failed to produce an acceptable recommendation to control dieldrin resistant beetle borer in bananas. 
Is there an urgency to have an improved recommendation before next summer. 
Is he able to say whether this pest has been controlled successfully in South American countries. 
Will he investigate the position with a view to applying any relevant overseas experience and materials to the solution of the problem in Australia and seek appropriate urgent action by State and Commonwealth authorities. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has (a) the Bureau of Transport Economics or (b) the Bureau of Roads made or is it making an economic evaluation of proposals to build modern highways between Canberra and (a) Yass, (b) Tumut and (c) Goulburn (Hansard, 9lh May 1972, page 2263). 
It is not the purpose of the Opposition, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  indicated, to oppose the extension of the agricultural tractors bounty for 6 months but I want to echo the plea of my colleague for tariff inquiries to be extended considerably. I believe that the minister for national protection - after all, that is what the Minister for Customs  (Mr Chipp)  is, or should be - should interest himself in the end result of government protection and in the end price of the product. The present tariff reports are truncated. They do not go far enough. They stop a long way short of getting to the end result, to the actual purchaser. Perhaps the excuse might be offered that the Tariff Board is not adequate for this purpose. If so, that lends weight to the Opposition intention to establish a national protection commission. 
This Agricultural Tractors Bounty Bill is part of the fabric of protection which has been erected in our country over the years and which has been very largely extended by this Government over the past 23 years. It has been estimated that the sum total of bounties such as this - that is, subsidies of various kinds - as a cash equivalent of tariff protection, exceeds $3,000m each year. That sum of $3,000m annually covers primary, secondary and tertiary products and it has been estimated that the rural sector of the economy receives about $300m of that total. Even the most extravagant of estimates as far as the rural sector is concerned has not gone above $600m in total. That is an unsubstantiated figure but it is the highest that has ever been mentioned in that context. 
Tonight we are dealing with the extension of the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act for a further 6 months and I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise whether he will examine the figures for the cost of tractors in Australia as they apply to the people who buy them to determine whether they reflect the Government's intentions or not. I believe that when the Government provides a bounty, or provides support or protection, it has a duty to look at what happens at the end of the line - at the actual price that is paid. The price of tractors in Australia is made artificially high because of the way in which they are bought. The price of tractors ranges from $3,200 to $6,000 or even $8,000. A tractor is a key item, a vital item, on the farms of the nation. But what does the farmer actually pay for a tractor? In nearly half of the cases he pays more than $1,000 above the price that it would appear should be paid if the Government checked to find out what the price range of tractors might be on the showroom floor. The farmer pays $1,000 more than that. 
Let me show honourable members how this comes about. In the pre-war days, a farmer who wanted to buy a new tractor went to his bank, arranged an extension of his overdraft to cover the money he needed and paid the current interest rate, which could have been 5 per cent or 6 per cent. Today, between 45 per cent and 50 per cent of all tractors sold are bought under hire purchase. If we take the case of a tractor priced at $5,000 we find it is common for the purchaser to put in either a trade-in or cash to the value of $1,000, leaving him to find $4,000. The interest rates of private finance companies vary from 11.4 per cent flat to 19.3 per cent flat, and these days often it is customary to relate repayments of that regimen to the harvests. So if we take it that there will be 3 years for repayment at the minimum rate the price of the tractor is increased by $1,168. 
Has the farmer an alternative? Where else can he go? The private banks, although having money available at  Ti  per cent, do not lend for such propositions. In fact they refer such inquiries to hire purchase companies. There is no competition in relation to the money rates available in the private banking system or the rates available under hire purchase. One might say that the Commonwealth takes an interest in this through the Commonwealth Development Bank which offers money at 9 per cent for the purchase of farm tractors. Yet so far as other farm requirements are concerned, such as bores and structures, it makes money available at 4i per cent. The difference, when we compare 9 per cent reducible to 22 per cent reducible under hire purchase agreement, is very great. It is the difference between $1,168 in one case and $740 in the other; and, if the rate of  4i  per cent is applied, it is $350. 
Referring to the cost of protection and the intention of protection, I plead again that it is desirable when there is a report on matters such as the one before the House that there should be an extended inquiry to cover all the other aspects of the product being made available otherwise we are making these decisions in a completely unreal atmosphere. I want the Minister for Customs and Excise, the Minister in charge of national protection, to initiate such inquiries. I would like him to confer with the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  about this matter. The Minister might well say that the Government brought in this protection measure and that it has been accepted by the Parliament. But we are not quite sure what the end result will be. Should it not be quite clear? If such an inquiry were carried out might not an instruction be given to the Commonwealth Development Bank to begin to publicise its services? The muzzles might be taken off it. In fact an initiative could be taken which is not taken at the moment. Presumably that is by decision of the Government. 
It is no use our dealing with these measures in this way unless we are going to take the whole story together. I am suggesting that decisions should not be made on protection in any event unless there is a complete assessment of the benefits and the end results. I suggest that the farmers of the nation are not getting the benefit of any price level that has been determined by either the Government or the Tariff Board. The system of purchasing tractors is very germane to any consideration before the House at the present time. I conclude by suggesting that protection is not just a matter of looking at one item in this totally limited way. We must look at the full result of the Government's decision as to what it thinks ought to be paid at the end of the line. My submission at the present time,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in relation to tractors is that the farmer pays far too much and this should be a matter for review and adjustment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is Australia the only country in the arid and semi-arid zones without a wheat variety bred for irrigation farming. 
Has there been developed at the Wheat Research institute, Wagga, New South Wales,  a  wheat variety know as 7147 which has yielded in excess of 100 bushels per acre under irrigation in trials carried out to date. 
If so, has foundation seed of this variety been released to all mainland States and to several overseas countries. 
If seed has been released overseas, will those countries which have secured these supplies of foundation seed of this highly promising variety be in a position to successfully compete against our own producers with our own Australianbred wheat unless we ensure that we ourselves have adequate supplies of seed. 
Has all available seed of this variety been planted for seed increase this year pending quality testing and evaluation so that immediate advantage can be obtained if quality standards are met. 
If not, will he act urgently to ensure maximum seed increase this year by maximum plantings in optimum situations. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has damage estimated at more than $13 million been caused by an explosion in one of the pipelines of the Snowy Mountains Scheme. 
If so, has it been claimed that the explosion is a result of a failure in the prestressed concrete of the pipes of the Geehi Aqueduct. 
If this is not the reason for the failure, what is the reason. 
Is it a fact, as reported, that there have been three other failures of the Geehi pipeline. 
Has the explosion caused disturbance which the Snowy Mountains Authority is bound by agreement with the National Park Authority to restore; if so, can restoration work be carried out. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What is the present position in regard to (a) experimentation with combined butter fat and vegetable oil spread, (b) examinations of Japanese market potential for the product, and (c) the attitude of the States to experimental manufacture and consumer reaction tests referred to in Answers to Questions Nos 4638 and 4584 (Hansard, 25th November 1971, page 3779, and 9th December 1971, page 4556). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether migrants settled in the United States of America, Canada and the Federal Republic of Germany are entitled to income tax concessions every year, if they support one or more members of their family in the country of origin. 
If there is a concession in those countries, does a similar concession apply to migrants settled in Australia; if not, why not. 
Will the Minister for Education and Science tell the Parliament why a directive has been issued within the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation requesting that all contacts by senior officers with Federal or State members of Parliament be reported to the  Chairman  so that the Minister can be advised? Does the Minister realise that this is regarded as imposing a complete gag on the nation's top scientists for purely political purposes? In view of Professor Philip Baxter's recent categorisation of parliamentarians as scientifically illiterate, will the Minister recognise that this dangerous exercise of political power will prevent the free flow of scientific information and ideas, and will he have this obnoxious directive withdrawn forthwith? 
For the first time in 20 years this nation's scientists are under direct political pressure- 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
He is gagging not only the scientists but also the members of Parliament. 
I rise to make a plea tonight for a New South Wales industry and more particularly the growers who are the foundation of that industry. I refer to the canned fruits industry and to hundreds of farmers who have been left to wither in the winds of adversity, none of their making. It is not my purpose tonight to deal with the broad scope of the problems confronting the canned fruits industry nationally but I do want to make a plea to break government inaction in relation to New South Wales industry and New South Wales growers. The situation is that New South Wales canning fruit growers are in an industry sponsored by government particularly to service the British market. The growers have followed almost to the letter every recommendation of government, on how much to plant, on what varieties to plant. They heeded pleas to become more efficient and in fact New South Wales apricot growers have the highest per acre output in the world; peach growers have doubled their per acre output in the past 10 years and are now in the top 3 in the world in efficiency. 
The problems of the industry do not stem from New South Wales growers or the New South Wales industry. Those problems stem from government decisions in Canberra and elsewhere. We have a situation where South Africa has a 20 per cent currency advantage over us and the long awaited government promise to consider some protection for affected industries has not yet materialised. We have a situation where the New South Wales Government increased freights by 15 per cent. We have a situation where the canneries have been forced to buy higher priced Japanese tinplate because the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd could not or would not supply it. 
The entry of Britain into Europe has thrown great shadows over the 60 per cent of production which still goes to Britain. On the present basis after 12 months we could be faced with that export being halved. Faced with all these difficulties all canneries were in trouble but the giant SPC cannery in the Goulburn Valley was specially in trouble because of multi-million dollar losses associated with management. 
The government decided in all the circumstances that the Victorian growers should be paid for fruit they had worked to produce and had already delivered. The Commonwealth made $4.2m available to the Victorian Government to enable the growers to be paid, to avoid bankruptcies and hardship to families and entire communities. The Opposition supported the measure on humanitarian grounds. We anticipated similar treatment for New South Wales. But what happened was that Griffith Co-operative Cannery was abandoned completely by both the State and the Commonwealth and 43 growers lost $250,000 in cash owed to them for fruit already grown, delivered and sold. Now we face a situation where hundreds more growers have received no direct help at all. All that has happened is that some Commonwealth and State bank debts have been adjusted - a book entry only and a saving of interest of $114,000 already offset by increased Government charges for freight and by decisions on the currency. 
So we have a situation where growers in 4 New South Wales towns - 2 large and 2 small - are walking about being owed $1.2m for fruit grown, harvested, delivered and in some cases sold. This is on top of the fact that growers have to pay a levy of $7.10 per ton and pay income tax on fruit delivered and canned for which they have not been paid. The growers face bankruptcy, their families face hardship, the towns' prosperity is hit hard. The farmers who have done everything they were told and advised by government to do have been abandoned by government. 
The Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, has said it is a problem for the Commonwealth. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has stated in correspondence that it is a matter for the States. He added also that the Government - I quote from a letter from him of 16th August - 'still has under consideration requests from several industries including the canned fruits industry for measures to alleviate the effects of the currency realignments of December 1971'. But since then the English pound has floated to make another 6 per cent difference and there is still no action. But the main point I underline tonight is that when the Victorian growers were faced with personal hardship and disaster they received $4.2m without any argument. In contrast, the New South Wales growers in the Riverina were firstly denied $250,000 and now the people in the Griffith district are owed $1.2m. They feel cheated, let down and in fact double crossed by somebody. 
This feeling is all the more reinforced when they listen to the Country Party leader in Victoria,  Mr Peter  Ross-Edwards, advocating the phasing out of the industry, the farmers, the canneries and the workers in New South Wales. I ask the Minister tonight to break the merry-go-round of Federal-State inaction. I ask him to reject the solution advocated by his State leader in Victoria. I understand that there were hopes of getting something going but it is a matter of time and there is family hardship where the banks have decided to close down by saying that there would be no more money and where cheques have been dishonoured despite the fact that the growers concerned are owed large sums of money for fruit which they produced, harvested and delivered and which has been put in cans. 
I hope that the vigorous attempt to throw up a smokescreen about revaluation does not mean abandoning good men and women for political expediency. The Minister and the Government know the decision to revalue is theirs - it has been done. We are 20 per cent worse off compared with South Africa. The Opposition has made it clear that industries should be protected, particularly the most vulnerable fruit industry. There has been an attempt to distort, dishonestly to create decisions which should never have been made and will not be mads by the Opposition. Those attempts and distortions must be rejected. I reiterate that such a campaign of misrepresentation of the Opposition does not solve the problems of the countryside, does not bring help to the growers, and does not even the balance between those who in one State will receive $4.2m and those in another State who will receive nothing directly. I make a simple plea tonight for justice and help and 1 ask the Minister to take the initiative to bring the States, the canners and the grower's representatives together to take action on the money owing to men for the fruits of their labour. I make that plea directly to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Any attempt to create a Trojan horse out of any passing references to the value of the Australian currency is to be deplored in the national interest. As a matter of fact I was surprised to hear on national television this evening that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  and all members of the Australian Labor Party had made a decision that there should be an alteration to our exchange rate. If that had been announced by the Leader of the Opposition or any major spokesman of the Party it would have come as a great surprise to me, but when it came from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  it created tremendous astonishment because no organ of the Party - not the Leader, the economics committee, the rural resources committee or Caucus - had made such, a determination and never intends to make such a determination. The Opposition is clearly bent on preserving- 
There was an interjection from the Minister. I do not want to do him any discourtesy. If it is a relevant interjection I do not mind, but I want to make it quite plain that these pipe dreams and Trojan horses are no substitute for action where action is needed. I make that point clearly and definitely. I come back to the point I directed particularly to the Minister for Primary Industry tonight on behalf of the people who have no part in these major decisions but who are directly affected by them. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 1 have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Murray and I wish to correct the misrepresentation. The honourable member stated that I had quoted incorrect figures in a statement on imports of canned and processed fruits into Australia, f just want to say that the statement [ made was based on figures supplied by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics and I will make them available to the honourable member on request. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the Secretary of the United States Treasury made a trading bloc offer to Japan in talks with the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Sato. 
If so (a) can he also say whether this offer was rejected by Japan because it did not include Australia and some other countries in the Pacific Basin and (b) has the Australian Government discussed the offer with either Japanese or Unit:c States authorities; if not, why not? 
I rise to support strongly the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which states:  the House condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for  out  capital cities and regional centres. 
The attitude of the Government to thi rural half of the nation referred to in the last sentence of the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition in this election year Budget is reminiscent of the treatment of an occupied territory. A little foreign aid is given to keep the natives happy. It seems to me that the scant attention paid in this election budget to the Australian countryside indicates one of two things - either the Government has written off the countryside from the electoral point of view or it has decided that it is invincible and that the natives will remain friendly, no matter what. 
The main feature of the Budget from the rural aspect is the overall reduction or more than $60m in its rural allocations. The only hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  seemed to hold out for better things - this was the only mention that he made - was a rise in wool prices, and I gather that somehow he took credit for that. But the whole force and thrust of Government policy towards the countryside remains unchanged. It has been, and it remains, a policy of cutback, reduction and curtailment. We have seen the fruits of the Government's restrictive policies in wheat. We now face a shortage for our needs at home and abroad. We have heard the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board make a plea for increased production. We have even heard Professor E. J. Donath, long a critic of the industry, make a plea for the abandonment of quotas for this year. What is the Government's reaction? It is to maintain policies of restriction. We face a shortage of wheat, yet the Government continues to pretend that quotas are necessary. In fact, quotas should be lifted immediately for this year. If not, the Government will give further support to the black market which is growing in strength and permanency, if the Government does not take action to face up to reality then, by its actions, it will be responsible for the end of orderly marketing within Australia in the future and of most of the 60 million bushels needed for the home market. 
While the dairy industry faces shortage., of material for use at home and abroad, the only word from the Government in Canberra is of restriction and cutback. Giant firms are actually bidding for the production in my own area, yet the Government in Canberra maintains the fiction that we are overproduced. The truth is that we are short of a whole range of products. We are short of wheat, beef, dairy pro ducts, coarse grains and oil seeds. Yet the Budget turns its face against expansion in the countryside and continues its policies of retreat and restriction. There is not a single incentive in the Budget to promote much needed production at this time. 
The great omissions in the Budget include the enduring silence on the imbalance of Australian settlement and development. Even the overworked and discredited word decentralisation' was not invoked on this occasion. After 71 years of federation and millions of words in support of decentralisation, Australia now is the most urbanised country on earth. Eighty-eight per cent of our entire population lives in cities. There is no Federal Minister for decentralisation; there is no Federal department of decentralisation and there is no money in this Budget for decentralisation or, as the Opposition prefers to call it, regional development. So it does not matter how many more pious platitudes come from the Ministry; the Budget speaks for itself. It provides no money for decentralisation. 
The other great omission concerns the plight of local government. There is not a word about, or a scrap of recognition of, the plight of local government in both rural and urban areas. In so many places the rate payer is paying half his dollar to meet interest on old debts. We have the absurd situation where local government has more debt than the national government. The level of government least able to pay has to find the most money at present for debts for essential services. What a contrast this is to the alternative government's positive policies to bring local government to the financial feast table with the Federal and State governments to ensure an injection of much needed revenue to the local sector. Let it be remembered that, no matter what promises and pious platitudes follow in the weeks and months ahead, the Budget contains no provision for help for local government. Promises are easy but it is in the Budget that the truth resides. 
There are other major matters being discussed in the nation at present. One is tariff protection. Another is the value of the Australian dollar. In relation to both matters this Parliament has been turned into a castle of humbug by the Government. Take tariffs: Every election time, Government country members go out into the countryside to tell the electorate that the tariffs are too high, that the tariff burden on primary industries is crushing and must be relieved. Yet what do we find? Tariff protection has increased every year of the 23 years of this Administration. Four years ago the Tariff Board reported that the effective protection needed for manufacturing industry amounted to S2,710m. Honourable members might ask why I quote the position 4 years ago - in 1968. lt is because we have not had any figures since - we have had no further information. The Government has not either the competency or the will to make any later figures available, or to arrange for them. So we have not been told since 1968 what the increases might have been in tariff protection, but we know that the figure has now risen beyond S3,000m for manufacturing industry. 
Some industries have 55 per cent protection. One industry has a hand-out every year amounting to $2,563 for every worker in the industry. This covers the office girl, the tea boy and everyone else. It is a continuing support. Yet for the whole of my political life I have been listening to Government speakers in the countryside telling me that they are opposed to this very thing that they have been doing. I do not want to join the procession into the humbug castle. I have not and will not today pretend that I see any general or drastic reduction in the level of tariff protection in our country. I would share the humbug if I said that I saw this, but I do not. What I have done, with my colleagues, is to recognise that the tariff burden on export industries must be eased. To do this we have approved the principle of tariff compensation. This has already been adopted with success in New Zealand where chemical inputs, for example, into some primary industries have been reduced by this means by up to 50 per cent and more. So the tariff is one of the big Trojan horses built by the Government to mislead as to what its actual policies are. It has sought to give the impression over the years that it opposes high tariffs while increasing them. 
Trojan horse No. 2 has been inflation. Day after day the old work horse of wages is used as the only excuse for inflation. In fact, there has been an ignoring of the contribution to inflation by government charges, which combined with increased profit margins - mainly by foreign corporations which dominate our economy - account for double the increase in inflation and the rate of inflation compared with wages. Therefore we want to see wages justification and prices justification going hand in hand. For that reason we will establish a prices justification tribunal, have a strong monopoly commission and, in the last resort for the protection of all Australian industry and people employed in them - and that is primary, secondary and tertiary industry - have a national protection commission which would see to it that we are not 4 years behind in the essential data to consider where we stand in relation to protection. 
But this is not the end of an attack which must be made on inflation. Basic to the distortions in the Australian economy is the massive misapplication of resources. In the first year of this current Parliament we saw S3,000m going to build high rise office blocks and only $300m for new factories. When one looks at the Budget papers this year one finds that there was an actual drop in the number of Australians engaged in production by manufacturing and an increase in those handling the money. So we have fewer productive workers and more parasites, if you like. 
We find that in downtown Sydney $700m is currently being spent on a gaggle of new skyscrapers in an already overcrowded area of the nation's largest city. So there has been a massive misapplication of resources. 
But lel us look at the national debate which now ensues on the Australian dollar. The Leader of the Opposition quite accidentally, and in passing almost, has lifted the lid on a witches' brew which has been boiling for some time. He made a personal comment that he thought the Australian dollar was undervalued. Almost immediately there was a call to the Treasury - the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  particularly - to make plain the Government's position. But there was dead silence. The Treasurer said repeatedly that he would not say anything, but there was some indication that the Government had in fact been given favourable consideration to revaluation. So in one great athletic bound the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  jumped over the Treasurer, jumped over the Prime Minister, right into the national spotlight with a message that the decision had been made that the Government would not revalue and anyone who debated the matter was a criminal. This effectively made criminals out of the entire Reserve Bank Board composed mostly of Government nominees and party members; out of the Wool Board, of mainly Government nominees and party members; and one Country Party member of Parliament who felt that the currency should be devalued. 
Having said everyone who referred to the Australian dollar and its value was a criminal, the  Deputy  Prime Minister proceeded to talk about nothing else for 3 days. He was followed by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  who also discussed the currency in such erudite terms as saying that it was not only criminal to discuss it but traitorish. The Prime Minister was not able to say anything at all for some time. He could not get a word in sideways. But when he caught up he said there would be no revaluation at this time. It was a bit late then. The lid was already off and the information had begun to flow. 
It was known that the Treasurer, on his 2 visits overseas, had been talking about Australia's reserves and Australia's exchange as part of the general review by all the responsible Ministers and bankers he met earlier this year on world currencies.  His  answer to a reasonable invitation by me to report on his talks was to say that he had nol had any. He went halfway around the world and had no discussions. The Treasurer asked us to believe that he went halfway around the world to discuss only the petty cash. But he is reported outside the Parliament as in fact saying that he had discussions on currency, but only on our foreign reserves. This is superb hair-splitting and the Treasurer knows it. The only information he has given to the House is that he has not been successful in getting Australia into the big financial league so far. In fact there is tremendous trouble with a bid to get us into even a working party. I enjoyed 'Alice in Wonderland' when I read it. but I did not enjoy the Treasurers version that one can discuss money, reserves and other people's currencies and problems but at no time refer to our own position and our problems. This is just not acceptable. But even if we did accept that the Treasurer went, saw and said nothing he still has. in view of the national debate now in progress, a clear responsibility to report to the Parliament on what he was doing on the nation's business. If he sustains that he was doing nothing, saying nothing, let him say this in the context of a proper report about the price of joining the group of ten, or the twenty as it now is, what the costs and ben efi ls are, who is supporting us and for what reason. For example, he should tell us why the United States of America is sitting on the fence. 
But that is only part of the matters to which the Treasurer must reply. 1 have said 2 things. One is that there had been discussions on international currency and the Australian dollar and the Treasurer hai never opposed revaluation. 1 said further that the Treasury has been formulating decisions on revaluation for months and the majority opinion favoured revaluation. Again the treasurer has never put on record his opposition. The Treasurer has not sought to deny in any way these Treasury exercises. But he has a responsibility to report them to the Parliament and the nation. So my statements stand. Thu I reasurer has noi denied in any way my statement on the Treasury and on his overseas visits and talks. He has issued only 2 unsubstantiated denials, one of which contradicts the other; but he continues - and this is the important matter - to deny the Parliament a report on what other people have said even if he does not want to say what he has said. All right, but what have other people said in the discussions and what are their attitudes to our country about our financial future? 1 fully appreciate the urgent political need for the  Deputy  Prime Minister to jump over the Treasurer and the Prime Minister in this matter. He knew of the discussions, he knew the decision-making and he was very anxious before they became common knowledge to head off the inevitable criticism, i give him full marks for political athletics. But 1 make a plea to end the name calling - to put the name calling on one side on this vital issue and to give the Parliament and the nation the facts so that we may weigh the costs and benefits of any action in the future on our currency. 
An honourable member opposite laughs because currency obviously is a purely political matter in the short term! He displays no national responsibility at all. B it there is a reference in the Budget which ! must not overlook. This is the reference to making available $20m for long term low interest finance to a new bank. Actually the Budget did not say how it is to be mads available, but the Prime Minister has made it clear that $20m will be spent through the 
Development Bank. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry have announced, for their own part, that they are going to build a new federal rural bank. They cannot finance it from the Budget because there is no money allocated for that purpose. But they say that the private banks and the pastoral finance companies will come to the party to finance a bank to compete against themselves in the countryside. I find this to be a curious concept. I cannot really ses the private banking system and the pastoral finance companies doing any more to further this proposal than they did when at the last election. It was announced that there would be a new insurance corporation that would enable the re-scheduling of debts on a long term basis. What happened was that the private banks would not touch the scheme at all. They said: 'No. We will not be in it. We will not release any more money. We will not make it available.' So that proposal has died and has been carefully buried. I suspect that is what will happen with this proposal. There is no need for a new structure. What is needed is money to be made available. The Labor Party has said that using government guarantee, for a modest sum of $S0m an amount of $500m can be made available at an interest rate of 3 per cent. This needs to be done and it will be done. 
There was no reference in the Budget to the need for new initiatives. 1 refer to the fact that Australia is losing the race for trade in New Guinea, and certainly is losing it in Indonesia, our nearest and most important neighbour. The Japanese-Asian coprosperity sphere is rapidly becoming a reality through Japan's enterprise and through our lack of initiative. Not long ago the Prime Minister provided some figures for me about what is happening in Indonesia, and I believe that they should be considered in the context of the Budget. He gave me the 5-year story. It is very interesting that in the 5-year story there has been a total of 144 foreign investments in Indonesia with a value of $US356m. Honourable members will be fascinated to know that in Indonesia we have had 12 modest Australian enterprises established and these modest Australian enterprises amount to about $US21m out of that total. Let us see the countries that have left us behind in Indonesia, according to the Prime Minis ter's figures. They are Canada, Hong Kong, Japan of course, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea and the United States of America. When we examine the total approved investment of the United States of America in Indonesia we note that it amounts to nearly $US554m. The United Kingdom, on the other side of the world, is having many troubles but nevertheless is doing better in Indonesia than Australia is. West Germany is doing better there than we are. This is an indictment of the Government's present lack of initiative in that direction. 
There has been a lack of overall planning. We represent surely the last of the colonies. As Australians have pulled out of so much of their own productivity, overseas interests have moved in and have acquired 250 million acres. Some little Australians have described the Ord River scheme as a white elephant. The Northern Territory section of that scheme is not even planned. Japanese interests have made inquiries to buy sections, and perhaps the whole, of the Ord. I asked the Prime Minister whether he would sell it. Well, there has been silence on that. Perhaps it is already in the process of being sold or disposed of. Certainly a new deal is needed for the countryside - a deal based on confidence which we can provide by setting out national production goals and a commitment to farm production. In respect of credit, the sort of action that I have indicated could be initiated by Government guaranteeing collateral. These days property does not represent collateral because the banking system has said that it is not really interested in equity but in earning capacity. Property is no longer collateral. I say that backed by proper national planning and responsibility, equity can be put back into property and the confidence that is needed can be restored. If ever there was a time for a change it is now, and the Budget only confirms it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the report of the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation now been presented to the Governments of the Commonwealth and the States (Question No. 5635, Hansard, 9th May 1972, page 2270); if not, will it be finalised and presented before the dissolution of the House. 
1 desire to make a personal explanation. 
The majority of Australians favour their country having a distinctive Australian national anthem. The majority of Australian athletes competing on behalf of their country at the Olympic Games in Munich are embarrassed that they are reduced to the colonial status of Southern Rhodesia because of the absence of a distinctive national song. I was asked by some Australian athletes who represented our country at the Games in Mexico to press for Australia to have its own distinctive anthem. We have failed them in not ensur ing that their victories are properly recognised as Australian triumphs by Australian men and woman. This failure occurs every time we take the international arena. I well recall the Australian Lionel Rose taking the ring in Japan in a world championship fight. 1 remember the embarrassment and resentment among Australians that Australia could not even honour the event and honour Lionel Rose with a song of his own country. If we were resentful and embarrassed, 1 can tell you that the Japanese were confused. It is little wonder that we are called the last of the colonies. It is little wonder that some Indonesian school books I have seen describe the political structure of Australia as being headed by the British High Commissioner. Yet the 
Prime Minister of Australia in 1972  (Mr McMahon)  said this morning that the majority of Australians favoured having no Australian anthem. 
Further the Prime Minister of Australia attacked my friend and colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  and reflected on his loyalty to Australia and our national spirit. It is incredible that the Australian Prime Minister in 1972 should give a reply so out of keeping with national sentiment. I draw a parallel with the reply by one of his predecessors, Prime Minister Stanley Melbourne Bruce. In answer to a question which appears in volume 120 of Hansard reporting the debates of 6th February 1929 to 22nd March 1929 at page 1096- just in case you wish to refer to it,  Mr Speaker  - he said: 
I am not prepared to suggest to the people of Australia that they should substitute for the present national anthem any other composition although I entirely agree the 'Song of Australia' may be suitably sung on Australian occasions. 
We had the spectacle of an Australian Prime Minister 43 years later being even more conservative, even more colonial and even more rejecting of any recognition of Australian sentiment. 
Quite right. I seem to recall that Prime Minister Bruce went to his reward when he lost the general election, lost his seat and left his country never to reside here again. 
Whatever events lie in store for the present Prime Minister he should be reminded that he is completely out of touch with Australian national sentiment. A survey carried out in August last year disclosed that 90 per cent of the people of New South Wales. Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia shared the view that we should have an Australian anthem. Two years earlier a gallup poll on the subject showed 51 per cent- even in 1969 - favoured an Australian anthem and this was a remarkable 13 per cent increase since 1965. The onward march of Australian national sentiment in clearly established. Yet the Prime Minister today denied this and indicated it was disloyal to favour the expression of an Australian sentiment. He failed to tell us disloyal to what - perhaps to the colonial past. 
I want to direct further attention to just how much out of touch with the country the Prime Minister really is on this matter, and I am indebted to my friend the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who pointed out that at the 19th annual convention of Australian Lions, embracing 800 clubs and 32,000 members throughout Australia, it was decided to recommend to the national Government that a new national anthem be adopted. They happened to recommend 'Song of Australia' which is already played, I understand, as a national anthem at many functions in South Australia. This bid for a new national anthem has been supported in writing to the national  chairman  of Lions by professional musicians, music teachers associations, brass band associations, many local government bodies, the Country Women's Association, the Methodist Church, the Catholic Church through its spokesman and the Anglican Church through Bishop Reed of Adelaide. They have all written to the national  chairman  of Lions, R. A. V. Wallace, who has circulated the music and history of the song which the Lions have recommended as the new national anthem. I think it is incredible that the Prime Minister should describe all these people in Lions - and 90 per cent of the population - as disloyal. I discovered this afternoon that the Prime Minister himself is an honorary Lion. I would think that as an honorary Lion if he really feels that the Lions are disloyal because of their attachment to Australian sentiment I think he would either want to cease to be an honorary Lion or perhaps he would like to participate fully in the spirit of Lionism recant the statement that he made this morning and so stand with other Australian Lions. 
At this convention, at which he was present, the Prime Minister was warmly welcomed as the Prime Minister and as the head of the government of this nation and even after this incredible resolution, according to the Prime Minister, was passed he had his picture taken with Lions delegates and stood with them proudly as an honorary Lion. 
Actually I am not sure just where in his capacity as an honorary Lion he roars. He may not have roared in Tasmania but he certainly purred happily at the national Lions conference. 
Well, that is a very interesting observation. I want to draw attention to the fact that as long ago as 1929 the national Rotary convention held that year began with a distinctive national anthem. So, the Rotarians stand wilh the march of national sentiment, and, in fact, did so in 1929, as the Prime Minister will remember. Forty-three years later the nation is still struggling to emerge from its colonial trappings that embarrass us so much at home and abroad. I certainly join with the great majority of Australians and ask  Mr Bruce's  successor to listen to the voice of the nation on this matter arid to issue immediate instructions that Australian victories at Munich be saluted by a distinctive Australian anthem. 
It is time that we came of age and displayed our modest maturity. I will never apologise - I am sure that you would not do so,  Mr Speaker  - for either the sentiment or the expression 'Advance Australia Fair'. 
i have been misrepresented in the report of an address by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn). 
asked the  Mininter  for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in: 
developing a national scheme of compensation associated with a total condemnation of all cattle either reacting to test oi showing T.B. lesions and. 
extending the national T.B. eradication programme. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he follow the practice of past and present Ministers for Trade and Industry and ensure that officers posted overseas to represent Australia by his Department are Australian Citizens or have sufficient interest in the country they are repesenting to signify their intention to become citizens as soon as legally possible (question No.5581, Hansard, 15th August 1972). 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that wholesale prices of lamb have risen by, up to 10c per pound over prices prevailing in August 1971 and butcher shop prices have risen in the same period by as much as 12c per pound. 
Will he provide urgently, information as to the average prices received by fat lamb producers in each State during June, July and August 1972 the average to include the entire range of lambs available. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster,  Mr Geoffrey  Rippon, in the British House of Commons on 15th May 1972, regarding transitional arrangements for Australia on Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. 
If so, did  Mr Rippon  state that there are safeguards in Protocol 16, and there are satisfactory arrangements which have been developed for consultations with the Australian Government and the Australian people. 
Is the view expressed by Britain's chief negotiator shared by the Australian Government. 
Will he say how the Protocol and the consultations to which  Mr Rippon  refers will work. 
Will he indicate how the satisfactory arrangements referred to by the British negotiator are satisfactory in regard to the Australian canned fruits industry which was established largely to serve the British market within the terms of the Ottawa Agreement and continued under the Anglo-Australian Trade Agreement which will be abrogated by Britain on entry into the European Economic Community on 1st January 1973. 
How many preferences (a) are extended to Britain, (b) are to be terminated on 1st January 1973, (c) do we receive from Britain and (d) will be continued after 1st January 1973. 
asked the Minister for Shipping  and  Transport, upon notice: 
What is the expenditure to date on container handling facilities in each of the Australian ports. 
What acreage has been taken up or is now reserved for container terminals in each of these ports. 
How much land has also been taken over or resetted for depots and stores in each of the ports associated with the containerisation programme. 
What is the value of the land either now in use or reserved for developments associated with containerisation in each of the ports. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the cost of producing the newspaper 'Australian Post Office News' during 1971- 72. 
How many people were involved in its production. 
I have waited for a debate on trade in the House of Representatives for something like 3 years since this Twenty-seventh Parliament came into being. I would direct the attention of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to the fact that it was on 3rd November last year that I asked him when we were to debate the statement made by  Sir John  McEwen on trade with the United Kingdom and the levies on imports, which statement incidentally is still on the notice paper and dates back to 28th October 1970. The Minister made a subsequent statement but we have debated neither statement. The Minister said on 3rd November 1970 in reply to me that he would try to have a debate on the paper he presented soon. This is not November 1970; it is September 1972. There have been a great many statements on trade made outside the House but no opportunity has been given until now to the Australian Parliament to debate the momentous decisions on trade which have been made across the world in recent times. This is the first opportunity. 
I would like, to refer to the situation in which we find ourselves. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  very rightly pointed out that whatever claims might be made by the Minister for the expansion of our trade and our balance of trade, the fact of the situation is that in net terms we are a long way behind - over 20 years by about $8,000m. This is hardly a record to be proud of. I would say in relation to the. industries that are affected by Britain's entry into the European Economic Community that we have overall primary exports worth $2,000m, of which probably only $158m worth will be affected by the decision of Britain to enter the EEC. But those industries to some of our communities are particularly sensitive. The Minister made a rather doleful reference today when he said: 
The Government remains very concerned, nevertheless, about the fate of those exports which still go to Britain. It is not possible to say now what the final effects of British entry will be but satisfactory alternative markets will be found for some of the displaced trade. 
I emphasise that 'some' only are to be satisfactorily adjusted. The statement continued: 
But there can be no question, that for a number of our export industries, the consequences will be severe. Fresh, canned and dried fruits, dairy products, wines, and possibly sugar are among those likely to be affected most. 
That is a most doleful statement for these industries and the people engaged in them. The Minister referred to the fact that the Government had been farsighted enough 10 years ago to make great adjustments. After 10 years of great adjustments, to make that doleful statement today is not a terribly impressive performance. I am not at all clear what stage we have reached either with our negotiations with Britain or with anyone else on these matters. The Minister, in his statement, also said: 
I made certain proposals designed to ameliorate the expected difficulties which our trade will encounter. These proposals are in the process of being considered and there will be further discussions later this year. 
I have been trying and the industries also have been trying to find out exactly what is proposed, because the Minister, in addressing a meeting of the Western Australian Country Party on 24th July 1972 stated - I quote his own Press release: 
I put forward some specific proposals which they are now examining- 
Apparently this was referring to Britain and the European Economic Community. In fact, of course, I have been trying to establish just what were these proposals and with whom he talked because  Sir Alex  Douglas-Home, who is the British Foreign Secretary, in reply to  Mr Leslie  Huckfield, M.P., in a letter stated: 
Australian Ministers, including  Mr McMahon  on bis visit to London in November last year, have expressed their satisfaction at the steps taken in the EEC negotiations to safeguard Australia's interests over the transitional period. 
That is a very big statement for the British Foreign Minister to make - that our Government has expressed satisfaction at the arrangements made for our industries.  Sir Alex  Douglas-Home's letter continued: 
No Australian Minister has criticised the UK. for joining Europe, and many Australians welcome the prospect- 
That hardly seemed to be satisfactory to me, as a member representing industries in trouble. But I did try to make sure just what was being done. Writing again to  Mr Huckfield,  M.P., on 8th June - shortly afterwards the Minister for Trade and Industry in Australia said that he had proposals before the Government of the United Kingdom and before the European Economic Community -  Sir Alex  DouglasHome stated: 
This is why I emphasise the fact that we have received no formal communication. from the Australians since the time the negotiations were completed. 
I am quite confused by the procedures which have been adopted in these negotiations. Firstly, it was indicated by the British that there had been no negotiations at all. Then it was indicated that there had been no formal communication. The Minister for Trade and Industry, in reply to a question on this matter from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  said that he had made his position clear and he did not have to say any more. If it is clear to him, it certainly is not clear to members of the Parliament. It is not clear to some of the industries. I am most concerned about the canned fruits industry. I might say that following the last visit overseas of the Minister for Trade and Industry I did try to find out whether any specific arrangements had been made there. I was most anxious to find out whether there had been any particular proposals because this is an industry which touches on a number of communities. If it is one of those for which the Minister has indicated that the consequences will be severe, then we should know urgently. On 13 th July in the British House of Commons  Mr Redmond,  asked the Prime Minister whether he would make a statement on his recent official discussions with the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia. Another question on the same subject was asked in the British House of Commons by  Mr St  John-Stevas and the Prime Minister of Great Britain replied: 

 Mr Anthony, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry in the Australian Government, visited this country from 25th to 28th June. My ministerial colleagues and I had a most useful exchange of views with him, particularly on commercial relations between Britain and Australia in the context of the enlargement of the European Communities. 
It sounds like a most chummy little discussion. But it does not say that any formal proposals were presented and that they would be under consideration. I think the Minister for Trade and Industry has a responsibility to this Parliament to say exactly what is being done because we are no wiser following his statement. His statement, after  3  years of silence by him and bis predecessor, ls certainly inadequate. 
The British Parliamentary UnderSecretary of State for Commonwealth Affairs is a  Mr Anthony  Royle and his report on the visit of the Minister for Trade and Industry was in these terms: 

 Mr Anthony met a number of Ministers and officials during his visit and both sides were able to benefit from a useful exchange of views on a whole range of questions. The question of canned fruit exports from Australia is one which falls within the responsibilities of MAFF and you will by now have seen Anthony Stodart's written answer of 18th July ... to your question seeking similar information to that for which you ask in your letter under reference. 
The information was that there had been some discussions but that no proposals bad been put forward. Surely the Parliament of Australia has a responsibility to ask for and to receive further information after  10  years of expectancy that there will be serious consequences of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. Surely it is time we knew precisely what the proposals are and what they involve so that we all can comment on them and perhaps add to them and even contribute to them in the national Parliament. It is time industries themselves knew what is going on. 
However, it is fairly obvious to me that the Minister's statement leaves all these questions unanswered and we are now no wiser as to what he did in London other than that he had some talks. But what are the proposals? I suggest that what we should have done a long time ago. when apparently the Minister said that every body was aware that Britain would go into Europe and that the Government was gearing itself for this event, was to renegotiate the preferences which we had been given and which had some value and significance at that time. Was that in fact done? The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  pointed out that there has been a considerable display of enterprise by Australian businesses and exporters, but what did the Government do in those  10  years? What specific steps were taken? 
I draw attention to the fact that one industry with which I am familiar, namely, the rice industry, faced a problem  10  years ago. This industry tackled its problem successfully. It did not really get any specific assistance from government but, to be fair in this regard, it did not really ask for assistance. The industry recognised that if the bulk of its exports were still going to the United Kingdom  10  years later the industry would be in serious trouble. So, quite independently of government, this industry diversified to Asia, to such an extent that the bulk of its export traffic now goes to our neighbouring countries and not to Britain. This is an example of an industry with self-help and I think a tribute should be paid to it. The rice industry probably was the first industry so to move and to display this kind of enterprise. Of course, the canned fruits industry was in a different situation because it came into being under the umbrella of imperial preference and treaties which were entered into between the Australian Government and the British Government. What I am pointing out now is that this industry, which was born of government decisions and born under an umbrella of government aid, protection and assistance, is now finding that the umbrella is being taken away. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has pointed out previously when this question has arisen that there will be a phasing out period of  1  year. However, unfortunately, we are already facing the crunch, as the Minister has indicated in his statement, which is associated with currency problems and other decisions of government. This is not just an abstract question. It is a question that surely deserves some clear indication by the Government to this industry firstly, that it desires the industry to continue, secondly, the scale of its continuance, and, thirdly, the arrangements which are in prospect. If there are no arrangements in prospect after 10 years of anticipation, it certainly is an indictment of the Administration. 
So. I draw attention to these great gaps in the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry and also to the great differences between what he has said in Australia and what the British Prime Minister, the British Foreign Secretary and other British Ministers who have given replies on this subject have said in their country. Either we are speaking in different languages or we are being mas.ively misunderstood. It is possible that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been misunderstood and that his proposals have not been understood by the people to whom he addressed them, but I think he owes this Parliament something better in relation to these industries 10 years after the first intimation was given that there was a future for them. We should know what that future is and we should also know what the Minister proposes to do to ameliorate the consequences which, he has told us, will be severe. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister's Department in conjunction with the New Zealand Government considering the import of semen direct from Germany through such centres as Schwandorf, the United States testing station. 
If so, what decisions have been reached. 
Is Australia disadvantaged in relation to New Zealand in the import of new genetic material as a result of New Zealand's clear lead in establishing a national quarantine station. 
Can the Minister say whether the New Zealand Government has permitted an additional privately-owned and operated quarantine centre to be established to accelerate the import of desired breeding cattle into New Zealand. 
Will the Minister take steps to speed up the establishment of an Australian national quarantine station rather than wait for the presently projected five to seven years. 
I rise tonight on behalf of a group of young Australians who feel cheated by their country because of an incredible piece of discrimination against them. I do this as a sequel to the valiant efforts in the House today by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who were both concerned, as I am, about a group of young Australians who volunteered for service in Vietnam and who are discriminated against by the Government which encouraged them to volunteer for that service. 
It was stated in the House today by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  that volunteers and conscripts alike received the same treatment. I find this extraordinary in view of the fact that the Minister has had correspondence dating back over more than a year in which - at least in one case - it was made obvious that the treatment was in fact different. The case that I thought I would cite tonight as typical of those with which we are all concerned involves a young Australian whose father and grandfather fought in Australia's wars and were eligible for all the benefits of repatriation and resettlement. Only in the case of today's volunteer was equal treatment denied. It was on 23rd June 1971 that  Mr J.  A. Kidd of Tasmania first began a battle on behalf of his grandson who volunteered for military service and spent 2 years and 10 months in Vietnam. He wrote to the Returned Services League and to the Minister for Repatriation. 
And he wrote to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition as well. As a matter of fact, I am sure that inspired the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition today to make his valiant efforts. But the point is that on 30th May 1972 the Minister for Repatriation offered to examine any specific matters. On 7th July the Minister received a further letter drawing his attention to the fact that young Australians who volunteered for service in Vietnam were denied the same benefits as those who had been conscripted. 
The grandson of  Mr Kidd  volunteered in September 1968. After his training at Townsville he listened to a call for volunteers for Vietnam from a  Major Darlington  and another officer who stressed that on discharge the benefits would be the same as those given to national servicemen. The young man reports that, following those addresses, more than 80 per cent of the men on parade volunteered, and in his opinion the repatriation provisions were a strong incentive. When his company arrived at Vung Tau in Vietnam, the company commander told them the same thing and made the point that they were eligible for these benefits after they had served 18 days in Vietnam. 
The young man reports that on his return to Australia he received the same address and the same impression as to his equal rights when he was in camp at Enoggera. On his discharge he returned home and his father gave him an opportunity to establish himself on a farm. The Development Bank agreed to find the finance, contingent on the resettlement loan which it applied for on his behalf. The Bank then reported that it could not proceed because he was not eligible for the loan; so he lost his opportunity.  His  grandfather, who is also the pensions officer of his local RSL branch, took the case to the Minister but without result and without the Minister answering the specific question. The Tasmanian State secretary of the RSL however, did break the news that volunteers and Regular soldiers were not eligible for resettlement loans and that even Citizen Military Forces personnel who volunteered for Vietnam were ineligible if they went to Vietnam and were not taken on strength. This surely represents a shameful betrayal of young men who volunteered under Government inducement and in good faith. I ask that a full statement be made by the Minister as to the reasons for this discrimination. I ask that he consider an immediate extension of the benefits. 
While I am dealing with young Australians who answered the Government's call to go to Vietnam, I want to draw attention to great bitterness among many men who served there because the Australian Government has failed to seek approval for its servicemen to accept and wear the awards of allies and has not followed this matter to its conclusion. It is incredible that in 1972 the only awards made throughout the Vietnam action that the Australian Government has officially sanctioned are those of a country which has remained neutral and has opposed the action. Under the Government's edicts, individuals and even the widows of dead servicemen are not entitled to wear allied awards. Although they may have citations the Australian Army, apparently still in the grip of colonialism, does not list in official Australian records citations of allies. 
Whatever our views about the involvement of our country in the bloody and tragic struggle in Vietnam, surely it is a duty of the Government, which chose to enter the conflict and which chose to induce young men to serve in it, to ensure that the promises given to them are honoured and also that no colonial hangover prevents them from having recognition of doing the job their Government asked them to do. It can well be summed up in this way: The diggers' bravery has been awarded everywhere but at home. Vietnam has been a tragedy for mankind, and for these young men of whom I have spoken tonight and who heeded this Government's call to arms it -has brought neither just treatment nor recognition. The Minister for Repatriation, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  should move to remedy this situation now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! If the Minister speaks now he will close the debate, but he may ask for leave to speak without closing the debate. 
Mi DEPUTY SPEAKER-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In view of claims in the New South Wales banana industry that diazinon is not giving effective control of weevil borers, will he call for a further report on the use of the chemical Terracur  P  to control dieldrin resistant borers in bananas, and of the chemical Nemacur for the control of nematodes with which it has been suggested weevil borer damage in bananas has been associated. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that at this stage he did not see that any further development in settlement was warranted in our country. I think that his negative note marks the difference between the approach of the Government and that of the Opposition. We foresee a future for the countryside and an orderly expansion of development. We support the Bill before the House which provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to $6.5m for war service land settlement in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania during 1972-73, but I most enthusiastically endorse the amendment put forward for the second time in this Parliament by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I seconded the original amendment. I again enthusiastically second and support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a select committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme.' 
There are some urgencies about this matter and about the inquiry. We have heard from the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  some very cogent reasons. 1 submit that the existence of about 4,000 settlers in New South Wales who are rebelling against current conditions and edicts reinforces the need for urgency. About 600 members of the Closer Settlement Association and their families have been settled on the land by the Government. They have put forward very clearly details of their position in relation to rentals which they submit are too high. They have decided to withhold all rentals until reductions are effected. There is some morality on their side because they well remember that the present New South Wales Minister for Lands and the present New South Wales Minister for Agriculture on 2 occasions, in 1960 and 1963, attacked the then government for raising rents from  2i  per cent to 5 per cent and they pointed out that this would make the whole scheme inoperable. In fact they spoke very strongly in favour of that adjustment. Now they are in a position to put their words into action. They have not done so. Those 600 families have said: 'Well, we will stay by the words of those members as members and not as Ministers.' So you have got that situation. 
One of the greatest soldier settlement schemes in the whole continent of Australia was the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. It came into being as a crucible for experimentation in both the agriculture and the social spheres. There is no doubt that a great many mistakes were made. There were mistakes - and this may sound strange in this place - that were not political mistakes as such. They were basically mistakes of lack of knowledge, lack of know-how, and a lack of understanding of soil and water relationships. It was a great experiment. It was the first time in the history of Australia that a vast tract of country in the semi-arid zone had been put under intensive irrigation and irrigation culture. It was a great experiment and that experiment is continuing. From time to time there have been attempts to close it down, once in the days of the depression when an overseas mission brought out by the then Federal Government headed by  Mr Bruce  came and examined it and said: It would be a very good thing to phase it out - to finish it.' There was a Premier by the name of  Mr J.  T. Lang who heeded the request of the area and the settlers at the time and said: 'No, I do not think we will yield to that particular request from the overseas mission.' He used his authority together with the then Minister for Agriculture, Captain Billy Dunne, to put the irrigation areas and the land settlement scheme on a proper and sound basis. 
Incidentally, there was also at that time a royal commission which was the last major effort I know of to tackle these problems. It was the Pike royal commission which was held 3 decades ago or more.  Mr Justice  Pike came up with recommendations that were accepted by the Commonwealth and by the States at that time. I might say that the Pike royal commission addressed itself to the duty and the responsibility of settlers in relation to capital works. One of the findings of that royal commission was that the settlers should not be liable to pay either the principal or the interest for State capital works such as dams, canals and other major works of that nature. The commission said this was not the responsibility of the settlers as such because water was a multipurpose commodity and it could not be divided up like a sausage and the costs apportioned to one section of the community alone. 
The Pike royal commission was a very valuable exercise. 1 repeat that the Commonwealth and the States accepted the findings of that commission at the time, but it seems to me that over the years the results of that inquiry have been set to one side and this has led to a second revolt in the State of New South Wales by soldier settlers and people in closer settlement situations, particularly in the Murrumbidgee Valley and in the Murray Valley where water charges have been made by the State authority which have not been directly and specifically related to the operation of the areas but in fact were pitched at a level which meant and has meant that the settlers have been requested to make contributions  to  capital works and to interest on them. This was in direct conflict with the last rate inquiry that was carried out, but it has been done. The revolt has gone ahead because it has been said: 'No, we will not pay the increase. It is unjust and uncalled for.' Settlers in all their organisations have joined together in a remarkable display of unity to say that these things should be more properly examined. They have appealed for an examination of the operations in the Murrumbidgee Valley and in the Murray Valley. They said that this should be the subject of an inquiry. 
This proposal which we advance to the Parliament tonight could be just  3u:h  an inquiry. I am not attempting to sheet home to the Minister for Primary Industry responsibility for the matters I have just touched on except that the Commonwealth has made the funds available and therefore if there is no direct legal responsibility - I accept that there is not- 
Not for Coleambally? 
I have not dealt with Coleambally but I will refer to it in a moment. 
It has a great deal to do with the amendment which we have moved. The Minister may have forgotten about the amendment. He might remember that we have asked for the appointment of a select committee to review all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia. 
Coleambally happens to have some veterans from Vietnam who incidentally were national servicemen. So there is a commitment there. There is a commitment wherever there are exservicemen. Surely this can be accepted in the terms of our amendment. I hope that the Minister will not run away from that. I am not trying to say - I come back to my point - that he has a legal responsibility in this regard but surely there is a moral responsibility inasmuch as Commonwealth funds were involved and have been involved over the years. I am not, as I said very clearly at the beginning, attempting to suggest that errors of omission and commission have been political errors in every instance. Of course they have not been. The Minister in his second reading speech has, I think, given the greatest possible support to our contention that there should be an inquiry. If I may recall the words of the Minister in his second reading speech, he said: 
The problems of the Kangaroo Island settlers arise from a combination of physical and biological problems. 
He went on to refer to the incidence of clover disease. This was something that obviously had not been provided for in the original planning, either financially or physically. I accept that this was an error made in good faith. There were such errors that had to be corrected in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. As the Minister has mentioned Coleambally, there were errors there which were quite unrelated to political considerations but were related to technical considerations. I hope that the Minister accepts that that is the position. 
I am not suggesting that the war service land settlement scheme should be looked at tonight in isolation. T am suggesting, in the terms of our amendment which is properly before the House, that the inquiry should look at all aspects of land settlement. Wherever exservicemen are settled surely that is where we should be looking. I hope that the Minister is not suggesting that, if the Parliament in its wisdom accepts the amendment and an inquiry is carried out, he would debar from that inquiry exservicemen who are settled in the areas to which T have referred. Surely it is only fair, just and right for them to be heard. Surely we do not want to be bound or imprisoned by dead legalism. 
I want to draw attention to the fact that the Minister himself in his second reading speech referred to the technical problems that have arisen. I understand only too well how they can arise because in areas such as Coleambally technical problems have arisen in relation to horticulture. They have arisen in relation to the rice areas where there are problems associated with soil and prior streams which have created difficulties for permanent intensive culture in some locations. That is a very nice technical statement, but it does mean that there are families and settlers in those locations who are in trouble. Again I draw attention to the fact that in 1956 we had a disaster of considerable magnitude in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area as a result of the wettest season in 100 years. A rehabilitation scheme which placed people on new farms was undertaken in an area called Kooba and in an area called Cudgel. In both of those locations there were high hopes that rehabilitation would be effective. In fact, because of technical considerations that were not identified at the time, a critical situation has arisen whereby people who have put 7 years of their life and have sunk their savings into the scheme are not getting their return. This situation has arisen simply because of lack of hoped for reaction by the soil to the cultivations which were recommended and which were followed. 
I appeal to the Parliament to support the Opposition's concept of an inquiry. From my own point of view, I think such an inquiry would review existing closer settlement schemes throughout Australia. It would embrace war service land settlement  md  all of the closer settlement experience we have had in this country. It would give an opportunity to review the management and operation of irrigation areas and districts and to assess, for example, the need for government charges at present levels. This is very germane to what the honourable member for Braddon said. He referred to the position caused by high rentals. I have referred to that position also. So there is no point in dealing with these areas and these problems in isolation. I would hope that the inquiry would review the experience that has been gained in the Coleambally irrigation area and enable consideration to be given to a reassessment of the settlers needs in that area. I would hope, too, that it would review the technical problems not only of Coleambally but also of Cudgel and Kooba to which 1 have referred. All of these farms were created by the State and all have failed to measure up to the hopes and aspirations of the settlers and to the blueprint of government. 
There is no, doubt at all of the need for this national review. The Opposition has moved for it repeatedly. I hope that the proposal will be accepted on this occasion. I hope that it will be accepted for another reason, and that is that the whole matter of closer settlement in our country - the whole matter of irrigation for that matter - is under question. Suggestions have been made that this should be phased out, that there are too many settlers and too much production. I would hope that an inquiry would be able to attend to some of the criticisms that have been made, particularly by the suburban lobbyists who seem to feel that all development should cease on the outskirts of the metropolitan areas. This is a unique opportunity for us to complete some of the great works that were put in hand, such as the great investigation work that was carried out by  Mr Justice  Pike. I commend the Opposition's amendment. I have had the pleasure of seconding it for the second time. I have indicated the range of the problems before the country and before the Parliament. This is one constructive way of tackling these problems, and I commend the amendment to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is consideration being given to the abolition of export incentives on the ground that such incentives are a breach of ohe General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
Are increases in duty on imports in excess of the GATT schedule of tariffs a breach' of the Agreement and does this mean that the JapanUnited States of America agreement on economic relations of 9th February 1972 is in breach of the Agreement. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls he able to say how many honours were bestowed upon Austraiian citizens on the recommendation of the United Kingdom Government in each of the last 3 years. 
How many of the recipients were public servants. 
ls he also able to say bow many honours were bestowed upon Australian citizens by other Governments in the same years and how many of the recipients were public servants. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
How many private contractors deliver parcels for the Australian Post Office in capital cities. 
What percentage of the total number of parcels and packets was carried by private contractors in 1970-71 and 1971-72. 
What are the minimum and maximum  costs charged  by  contractors for parcel deliveries. 
Do these contractors give the same undertakings to observe secrecy as do permanent and casual mail delivery personnel employed by the Australian Post Office. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker. I wish to make a personal explanation. I crave the indulgence of the House but this is the first opportunity I have had to raise this matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said in his remarks earlier that on my recent visit to South Australia I had hidden the Opposition's wheat policy by subterfuge and by pulling legs, to quote him. That is untrue. On every occasion I have made it clear that the Opposition favours a national quota, a 2-pool system, and a basic quota for family farms to ensure their viability, and not to give grace and favour to corporations as is the case at present. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Have some major farm machinery manufacturers recently increased their prices. 
If so, is the reason for the increases the upward movement in the price of steel. 
Is the figure for the rise in the price of steel used in fabrication and farm machinery manufacture close to 10 per cent. 
Will he, even at this late stage, intervene to investigate the whole ramifications of the increased steel prices announced by the Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd and take steps to prevent a further cost escalation particularly in the still depressed rural sector. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What progress has been made by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in carrying out its first economic review of Australia. 
Has the Organisation received all the data it has requested. 
Have OECD officials visited Australia in connection with the review 
If so, (a) who were the officials, (b) how long did they remain and (c) with whom did they confer. 
If not, are such visits planned and what itineraries have been prepared. 
Will the review be completed and released before the Parliament rises at the end of 1972. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister noted the visit to Peking by Prime Minister Tanaka of Japan to heal the breach which has existed between Japan and China for 80 years? Has he further noted the success of United States exporters, following president Nixon's visit to Peking, in selling aircraft parts and 500,000 tons of wheat? In view of the fall in our trade with China from $168m 10 years ago to $37m in 1971-72, will he consider some new iniative with China which will get his Government off the slow boat which is leaving us so far behind the rest of the world in China trade and which is in fact leaving us somewhat lonely? 
In the past 3 years of rural and urban recession there has been no burden for those that are concerned, heavier or more resented than the death tax of probate. The tragedy, as has been pointed out by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  is that it falls on a comparatively small number of people to meet the full burden of this impost. It has caused great personal hardship particularly throughout the countryside, led to the destruction of family farms and even to the break-up of families themselves in tragic circumstances, trying to meet an impossible tax conceived 2 generations ago and allowed to grow into a mindless, inflexible Frankenstein monster which has devoured and destroyed. If these terms seem somewhat harsh and fanciful I invite honourable members to direct their attention to some of the cases I have to mention. 
The Government, under this legislation, has acted but it has acted tardily and inadequately. The present proposals will go no further than relieving some 40 per cent of the cases, according to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in his statement at Condobolin the other day, or some SO per cent if we take the assessment of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this House. But the legislation leaves the tax with all its inequality and the fact that it applies only to the little man - to the family enterprise whether it is a farm or a business. The rich still have the means to avoid the tax. The family enterprise in most cases has not. 
After all this hardship and all the pOSturings in the countryside by the Government, it is as well to recall that we of the Opposition on 21st April 1970, moved the following amendment to the Estate Duty Assessment Bill - the Bill which has caused so much trouble. On that date the honourable member for Melbourne Ports actually moved that the words to be inserted in place of those to be omitted were:   realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969, the passage of this limited Bill which offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector is not opposed, but the House is of opinion that it is inadequate, as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation, 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sectors, where in both cases a large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States. 
The House considers that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act'. 
This is not an amendment which would have brought down the Government; it would not even have held up the Government's Bill; but it would have perhaps brought this relief more quickly. Yet every single country member on the Government benches voted against it. Now, 2 years later, they come up with further limited relief. 
There is no equality in death in Australia. It even depends on where you live as to how much you pay. If you live and die in Canberra on an estate of $100,000 you pay only $12,000, but if you live in New South Wales the combined Federal and State death duty bill is nearly $24,000. At a time when properties could not be sold and at a time when valuations were quite fictitious a death has meant disaster beyond the personal loss and grief. In many cases in the Riverina a $100,000 property in the past 3 years was worth that amount only to the Valuer-General, on an outdated basis. Put onto the market it would not have brought that amount. Yet the inflexible death tax law states that the value is the value at death. 
Quite apart from that fact, the owner would have an overdraft and other commitments. Once he was required to sell the property to meet probate he faced bankruptcy and the destruction  of the family enterprise. The tax has also led to racketeering. The men with the ready money  -  I came across an interest rate the other day charged at 36 per cent - who lent money not to await repayment, but to get possession. There was a case where a widow found herself with $188,704 in net capital aggregation and spent so much on death duty that when, after 8 years, she herself died she had not enough left to pay for her own funeral. That happened to be in Queensland, the State about which we have been hearing so much from some of the honourable members opposite. 
The evidence given to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations inquiring into all aspects of death duties cited the case of a widow who was left $2m in Poseidon shares. Even if that were their paper value on the death of her husband the real value was $284,440. She faced a bill for death duties of $500,000. She was being asked to pay double her total assets. This is a case to illustrate the absurdity of the system as it exists. I make the plea of a Victorian widow to the Parliament. I have heard no more eloquent case put than this, from  Mrs M.  E. Carter of Mount Macedon who wrote only 2 weeks ago this plea for the widow:   in addition to receiving no adequate allowance against taxation in payment for her many-sided career in the home all her married life, upon her husband's death a widow can find herself entitled to absolutely nothing. Apart from a now inadequate share of the family home, she realises she is just a chattel who must prove ownership of every single item or pay duty, plus the heavy legal expenses involved, on everything. 
And what, with no income, can she own? She is faced with this levy on savings, possessions and the fruits of 2 shared lives. Paying out of capital, her future livelihood is reduced; indeed, in some cases, a widow finds she is forced upon the charity of her family or even becomes an added burden on the State, And this at the most traumatic moment of her life; when she may be quite old and forced to face a contingency she and her husband made heavy sacrifices to avoid. 
Should the husband, realising what the law imposes on his wife, attempt to protect her and then she dies first, he will be punished by having to pay the levy himself. 
In view of the inextricable nature of a married couple's affairs, is it not logical to abolish all death duties between them? 
That was the eloquent plea of a Victorian widow. It actually costs $4m in Australia to collect the various death duties. But the yield in misery, in dislocation of enterprise and in the loss of income tax yielding assets is so much more. It would appear that the Government has reached the position outlined in this Bill. It rests on its oars. The countryside and the nation generally will certainly, in contrast, warmly welcome the announcement by the Leader of the Opposition at Cowra in New South Wales where he proclaimed the Opposition policy that the assets of a family enterprise, whether a farming enterprise or a business enterprise in the town, should not be diminished by the death of one of the members of the family. This commitment and this policy will certainly answer the plea of the widows and family numbers who have to face the hardships created by a tax which is shot full of anomalies. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was addressing myself to this Bill and I might say that it does not really make a very satisfying subject for lunch, bearing in mind all the difficulties that people in the countryside and urban areas have suffered in recent years because of this tax. The major point I wish to make is that the Government seems very definitely to have gone as far as it can go, or as far as it will go, in granting relief from probate tax. It has been very rightly described as a death tax. We of the Opposition reject any contention that this measure is the best that can be done, and I reiterate my enthusiastic support for the announcement by the Leader of the Opposition at Cowra, New South Wales, to which I referred before lunch. He said that the asset of a family enterprise, whether a farming enterprise or a business enterprise, should not be diminished by the death of one of the members of the family. 
We definitely do not oppose the Bill, as it is a recognition of the problem, but all those people who in past years have cried for help should well note that on 21st April 1970 no Government supporter would listen to their cries for more to be done. We want to see further relief given. Today we accept what is before us in this measure but we serve notice that the alternative government of this country is pledged to end a system that attacks the very survival of family enterprise. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to Canberra sewage effluent that Australian Capital Territory authorities readily acknowledge that Canberra's waste water does contribute pollution to the receiving waters and that their evidence indicated that they have been aware of this and the need for improved standards though they found themselves forced to regard the streams receiving the effluent as forming in effect part of the treatment process. 
If so, does this statement conflict with assurances previously given that Burrinjuck Dam was not being used for sewage treatment. 
Does the finding of the Committee that Canberra's rate of growth in recent years has far outstripped expectations and planning indicate that there is an urgent need for remedial action to prevent continued pollution by the A.C.T. of Burrinjuck Dam and the Murrumbidgee River. (4)Will he initiate such action as has been sought by the relevant local government bodies in the Murrumbidgee Valley. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Has any rate been set for the cartage of airmail by commuter services. 
Has any review been made of mail cartage rates since commuter services were first initiated. 
How many airmail services in Australia are not receiving subsidy. 
What are the names of the firms concerned and where do they operate. 
How many firms receive subsidy to carry airmail and what is the total cost. 
Will he urgently review the position of the airmail service provided to Deniliquin by  Mr John  MacKnight who estimates that he is losing between $2,000 and $2,500 per year by carrying airmail under the existing contract conditions. 
1 desire to refer to 3 matters under the combined estimates before the Committee - wine excise, drought relief and the wheat situation. Wine racketeers in Australia are harming the industry and fleecing the customers. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have a joint responsibility to see to it that Government decisions and intentions are in fact implemented. 1 refer to the fact that the Government imposed a disastrous excise on wine which proved to yield little to Government revenue but which dealt a severe blow to the prosperity of one primary industry which had not been in trouble. Pressure from the industry and pressure from the Opposition resulted in the Government retreating before the storm of justifiable protest, and it reduced the excise from 50c a gallon to 25c a gallon. I want to report to the Committee what has hap pened and I intend to quote from a letter sent out to his customers by a so-called Sydney cellarmaster. This illustrates the problem. This is what he wrote: 
Dear Customer, 
Following the recent decision of the Government to reduce the duty on wines we have reduced the price of all our wines accordingly and enclose a new price list. 
Great cheers. We can lift a glass to that. The next paragraph reads: 
Unfortunately due to cost increases over the last 2 years, we have been forced to revise our prices. 
He goes on: 
As from 1st July all prices will revert to their previous level. 
Surely this calls for an inquiry into whether it is proper for private individuals to pocket an excise. The Ministers for Customs and Excise and Primary Industry should immediately carry out an investigation to establish the facts of the situation. An investigation will show that some wine racketeers, in Sydney and Melbourne particularly, put 300 per cent on a bottle. One of the nation's leading wine makers told me the other day that he ordered in Sydney a bottle of his own product which should retail for $1.30 and found himself billed for $3. He was not in a place where the wine price was supposed to pay for the song and dance. In fact, there were not even soft lights and sweet music, only a bill. This kind of action harms the wine, industry as a whole. I ask for an inquiry to be made under the auspices of the 2 Ministers concerned to expose the racketeering. I make a further request that the remains of this regressive and damaging excise be scrapped in the interests of the industry and the consumers. The prediction of the Government's own advisers and the. Bureau of Agricultural Economics as to the harmful effects of the tax has been demonstrated. The tax should be removed. 
I want to draw attention also to the. serious threat posed by the spreading drought in our country and the tardiness and inadequacy of the Commonwealth Government response. In New South Wales limited drought concessions have been implemented. They have been desperately needed but the concessions are not enough to stop the hardships and losses which face us in so many areas, not only in New South Wales but also across  the nation.  Mr Crawford,  the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture, has exposed the Commonwealth Government's turning its back on drought areas and refusing to grant reasonable State requests for aid. I think the Commonwealth Government should accept the responsibility of meeting the cost of essential drought relief measures as it has done in the past. I suggest that the Commonwealth Government is treating the drought areas of Australia like distant territories calling for tea and sympathy. It has given no real help. The indictment of the Commonwealth in this matter is made by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. In a letter addressed to me on 11th September 1972 he referred to the unsatisfactory Commonwealth aid arrangement to assist New South Wales in providing drought and other natural disaster relief. He wrote: 
It is correct that since 1970-71 the Commonwealth has determined that expenditure for this State on natural disaster relief, on a fiscal year basis would be $5m. This means that after this State expends this amount the Commonwealth carries all further eligible expenditure. 
However, because of this State's serious deficit budget situation in the last 2 financial years, New South Wales Treasury Officials have pointed out as far back as the Third Meeting of the Standing Committee on Agriculture's Consultative Committee on Drought in March 1971, that this figure is far beyond the financial resources of this State. 
The Premier wrote to the Prime Minister in these terms on 8th July 1971, but the reply indicated that the Commonwealth was not prepared to vary from this $Sm trigger figure approach. 
Following further consideration of this matter by the Consultative Committee on Drought, Standing Committee on Agriculture and the Australian Agricultural Council, as a compromise a further letter was written to the Commonwealth on 9th November 1971, proposing a 3-tier financial arrangement for natural disaster aid. Under this proposal, in any particular financial year, this State would accept responsibility for meeting the initial expenditure of Sim, the next $8m being shared equally by the Commonwealth and State, with all further expenditure being met by the Commonwealth. 
In view of the serious drought situation that developed in New South Wales during the autumnwinter of this year, and the fact that the Commonwealth had not indicated their acceptance or otherwise of this 3-tier proposal, the Prime Minister was again written to on 5th July 1972. 
In his reply of 7th August 1972, the Prime Minister indicated that the Commonwealth was not prepared to vary from its policy in regard to natural disaster aid for this State, that is, the $5m trigger point. 
Because of the seriousness of the drought situation in this State and notwithstanding our budgetary difficulties, during the month of August, Cabinet approved of the introduction of the following drought relief measures: SO per cent rail and road freight concessions on the drought movement of fodder and livestock within the State, SO per cent road freight concessions on these same movements beyond the State borders on interstate movements; SO per cent rail freight concessions on the South Australian Broken Hill-Peterborough line; and the drought loans scheme, including loans for the purchase of fodder, 'carry-on' and restocking. 
It will be noted that nothing has been done in the field of unemployment drought relief, as was the case in the 1965-68 and 1970 droughts. The reason for this is that unemployment was always considered to be a Commonwealth matter with this State purely administrating such schemes when the Commonwealth provided the finance, as in the case with the current non-Metropolitan Unemployment Relief scheme. 
On present indications, expenditure on the drought relief measures implemented is expected to be at least $3m and could well exceed 55m, and as the matter now stands, the Commonwealth Government would not provide any assistance until the cost of such measures exceeded the latter figure. Further, this State is faced with the very serious situation of having to find up to $5m for this purpose. Therefore, the Premier again wrote to the Prime Minister on 21st August 1972, asking that the Commonwealth accept the responsibility of meeting the cost of the 'essential' relief measures implemented to alleviate the current drought in this State, as it has done on occasions in the past. As a second alternative, the Commonwealth has again been requested to at least support the 3-tier proposal. 
That indictment is not by members of the Opposition but by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. It is obvious that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is playing Scrooge. As he jets between Canberra and Sydney he must divert his eyes from the scars of drought below. I ask him to look from his Olympian height and agree to the reasonable request made by the New South Wales Government and reply to the correspondence which has been addressed to him. 
As part of the drought relief programme it is obvious that we should be looking at ways to make wheat available at more reasonable prices than at present. I want to say to the Australian Wheat Board that its gesture in holding wheat stocks in drought areas of the countryside to be drawn upon by local producers is much appreciated. But we are still pretending by the continuance of quotas that we have over production of wheat. It was mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and has not been challenged by the 
Government that Australia faces a 50-mil- lion bushel deficit to meet our needs at home and also to service our markets abroad. Against this situation we still have the fiction of quotas being maintained. It is obvious that if we are going to avoid giving a major fillip to the black market, which took nearly a third of all the internal wheat sales in Australia last season, we should suspend quotas for this year as a matter of urgency and announce it. We should make sure that all wheat produced across the countryside is delivered into the Board system. There should be a programme of active encouragement for everyone to do that, otherwise we will see the institutionalisation and the spread of the black market, which in the long run will do nothing but harm to the growers and the industry. It is time for urgent action to be taken on the matter which I have raised today, particularly by the Prime Minister who has a responsibility as head of the Government to reply to the head of the Government in New South Wales, to the plea which has been made and has not yet been answered. 
The estimates for the Department of Immigration have been brought down this year in the atmosphere of a continuing national debate on migration. I rise in the first instance to make a plea for some sanity and balance in the debate. Because it is an election year we have heard charges being hurled from one end of the country to the other about what future plans mean. Some of those charges have been completely irresponsible. The shrill cries of the extremists range from those who say: 'Shut the doors' to those who are accused of saying: 'Tear the doors down and throw them away'. I do not believe that that sort of remark is a valid basis for a debate in this Parliament. In fact, it is not a valid basis for any sort of debate on migration. Those who would seek to make it so do a disservice to the Parliament and to the nation. Both views, of course, are to be rejected. Debate should not proceed along the lines of such shrill cries and the Parliament should not be an echo for those who are xenophobic, bigoted or just plain witless in their prejudice. Australia is a nation of immigrants. One in 3 of the people that one passes as one walks down the street in most towns or cities is either a migrant or the son or daughter of a postwar migrant. So by rubbishing migrants and migration we are rubbishing ourselves. 
I live in the town of Griffith, which is in a district that has been described as the best integrated in Australia. People of 30 different nationalities built it and provided its population. It has one of the highest ratios of migrants to total citizenship anywhere in Australia. They are all citizens because they have integrated. I am proud of this achievement. 1 should point out that successful achievement in this respect was built on the basis of chain migration and family reunions. 
I do not want to do the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  an injustice, but 1 think he tended to imply that a system of migration that was based on chain migration and family reunions would result in us being inclined to get labour that was somewhat less desirable than would be obtained in a mass recruited migrant system. I wish to rebut that proposal. It is just not true. The criteria that has applied to chain migration and family reunions in the area I happen to represent have been tougher in practically every respect than the criteria that have been applied to mass recruitment migrants. I should point out that this has led to a stability, a prosperity and a situation of which not only I, as the local member, but also the nation generally can be proud. So I do not think that that is quite a valid criticism of the sort of thing that we have said. But to those who talk about shutting the doors I say that it would be absurb to do so. To end migration would mean that Australia would be guilty of cultural incest. It is just wrong to talk about tearing down the doors and throwing them away. 
Obviously every nation has the right to selectivity in the people that it invites to its shores. I seem to recall that the first migrants to Australia were most carefully selected. I think the selection teams sat in wigs and ermine on English benches. They may not have thought so, but they did us a favour by sending to our shores many a bonny rebel who did us a good service. Perhaps they would have done their own country a good service if they had been allowed to stay. At any rate, it was a form of selectivity that was exercised then. Of course, throughout the whole of our history, whether as States or as a Commonwealth, we have exercised selectivity. I do not think anybody in this chamber or in this Parliament would say that this should not be the practice and that this should not be done. Basing our migration programme on chain migrants is a sound way to proceed, for this reason: Chain migration has been described as migration without tears. The work, social services and friendship of the new arrivals are all taken care of within the family and by the family, or the extended family, which of course could include 200 or 300 people. This arrangement has been a demonstrable success. There is no need for us to run away from what has been achieved in that area. Indeed we can learn from it. 
The mass recruited migrant is the one in most trouble because he arrives in a disembodied way. He arrives without his family. He arrives without knowing our language and without friends. He arrives to find a situation that is foreign to him not only in terms of a different country but very often in terms of his way of life. We recruit people in the countryside and they end up in the inner suburbs of Sydney. I seem to remember that the last time the estimates for this Department were discussed I referred to the electorate of my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  where there is a situation of fragmentation with large numbers of widows and large numbers of man-less women who are either deserted or the wives of service personnel. Then there is a group of old age pensioners and also a group of refugee Aborigines from the countryside. Three different migrant groups have been brought together, mainly from country areas, and they are put into that situation. 
It is obvious that the problems of migration are the problems of the way in which we have either failed to plan their settlement or allowed things to happen to feed the factories in the cities instead of seeing to it that industry was encouraged to develop in the areas where people can live to their best extent and find a new quality of life. 
The criticism that has been levelled at migration and the migration programme has not been criticism, as far as 1 have been concerned, of the people who have arrived, because on the whole they have made a tremendous contribution. The criticism has been of the method in which they have been recruited and have come to Australia to be fed into the furnace of industry. This means that if we are to review migration we should review it in the light of the difficulties arising from the non-planning of the settlement of migrants. I find, as I go into Sydney and Melbourne particularly, people talking to me about overcrowding, indeed of over-population. To me this is incredible, representing as I do some towns without people - towns with empty shops, empty houses and empty blocks. Yet one can go into the major capital cities and find people talking about over-population and overcrowding. This is part of the incredible imbalance that we have allowed to develop in Australia generally. 
I think a lot of the criticism of the migration programme has come about because the suburban man or woman has looked over the fence and said: 'We have too many people here. Look at them all.' Yet when a man crosses the Great Dividing Range he finds that he is meeting everybody coming back because of the rural situation. Then he gets into empty spaces where there is nobody at all. It is this sort of imbalance which has caused the whole of the migration programme to reach a state where it calls for new accounting and new assessment. Obviously it is common sense that the migration programme has to be attuned to the needs of the Australian people and indeed to the needs of the people who come here. So the planning has to be on the basis of economics and should fit in with our overall national planning about what we intend to do with our own population and the people that come to Australia. Obviously we cannot continue to have 2 major cities into which we pour large numbers of people and hope to God that the furnace will melt them down into a common mould. It is a dreadful prospect lt has nothing to do with migration as such. It is a matter of the disjointed approach to national planning that we have. 
In the last minute I have I would like to direct attention to 3 specific areas that still need urgent attention. The first is the long delays in issuing visas, particularly to people who are coming on short term stays to visit their families. It took a father of a bridegroom 6 months to finalise arrangements so he would be able to come to his son's wedding, and he nearly missed it. That is just one illustration. Secondly, the provision of education for migrant children is still far from satisfactory. Above all, the committee which is tackling the recognition of migrant professional and trade qualifications has not had the impact that most migrants hoped for. There is still an area of great dissatisfaction among people who come to Australia and who are not sure whether in fact they can practise in their chosen profession. 
The decisions by the Government to curb overseas investment in Australia represents a death bed repentance after 23 years nf a policy which has led to a massive alienation of Australia's resources. The words of the Government's statements are brave, but the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  indicated tonight that his heart is really not in it. The statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is significant for its sins of omission. Nowhere did he refer to the great alienation of land and water resources. Nowhere did he refer to the fact that about 250 million acres of land are now owned or controlled outside this country. Nowhere did he say that further land purchases or takeovers would be halted. Nowhere did he answer the challenge posed by the Ord River scheme, an outstanding example of the dilemna in which 23 years of the Government's policy has placed us. 
The Ord River scheme has cost Australians much. In order fully to utilise water resources, development must proceed in the Northern Territory and there are no such plans. Japanese inquiries have been made about our intentions. They may well be interested in acting in the region themselves. What is the answer of the Prime Minister to a request by Japanese interests to buy a section of the Ord River scheme? If he is asked will he sell? He has not replied, and the repentant sinner is always suspect. An Australian writer, Ray Aitchison, has drawn attention to the problem of overseas penetration, particularly of our water resources. He illustrates the sort of development that we are confronted with now. In his recently published book, entitled Thanks to the Yanks?', he said: 
An American-owned group, the Australian Land and Cattle Co., was going ahead with plans to spend $A18m on a pioneering irrigation scheme for farming and beef-raising on the Fitzroy River. The Americans of this company had a plan for a vertically integrated and diversified farming and ranching enterprise of 5 divisions with immediate earnings from their cattle holdings . . . The first division was the Kimberley cattle division which was to supply the United States market for boneless beef and which would also provide young steers for fattening in the second division. The second division, the Inkata feed yard division, would supply the Japanese market for prime beef. The third division, the Camballin 'Irrigation Farm Division, would export grain sorghum to Japan and supply stockfeed for the second division. The fourth division would take care of machinery supply requirements for the entire scheme.  . . The fifth division was the Marketing Division based in the city of Perth.  . . The Marketing Division formed an alliance with the Japanese trading house of C. Itoh and Co. which was investing at least Sim in the project. 
This is an example of development to which neither the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has addressed himself nor has the Government addressed itself. This is a situation in which there is no Australian equity. 
I am not sure where the honourable member who has interjected stands on this matter. Last night he indicated his impatience with migrants and rejected them, but apparently today he is defending them. So I am not sure where he stands. I think he should explain himself clearly to the Parliament, and the nation because I, for one, am confused. We have in the case I have mentioned an integrated development - a very ambitious one - which is making use of land and water resources for a very long time. I want to know just where this sort of development fits into the Government's new guidelines. There is no room for any Australian participation in this kind of development to which I have referred. I think that is a very fair statement to put to the Parliament and to the Government. In the future just where are these sorts of enterprises to find themselves under the Gov ernment's proposals? I refer finally to the fact that the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  asked us to learn from the pattern of United States development. I might say that we on this side of the House have learned from the United States. In the development era of the United States no non-resident was ever permitted to hold land in United States territory. This was the United States law and it held to it. 
.The British capital helped to develop Texas but the British did not own it and they do not own it today. There is a difference between investment and owning. From the Labor Party's point of view it is not necessary to sell the country to develop it. Certainly, we invite people to participate in the development of the nation but to sell it out is completely different. The questions which I have posed demand an answer from the Prime Minister and from the Government. I hope they will be forthcoming. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond- Minister for Trade and Industry) - by leave - The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  brought to the Government's attention a threatened takeover of a company by the name of Carkson Ltd in South Australia. I am not aware of the details, but the honourable members stated that this sort of takeover should be caught up with in the screening apparatus which the Government has announced it is setting up to watch the situation vigilantly. I certainly will respond to the request by the 2 honourable members and see that the matter is looked at. However, I would not like this assurance to be regarded as a precedent and the fact that honourable members raise a matter in the House to be regarded as sufficient justification for the holding of an investigation. However, I think that at this initial stage, before we have had the benefit of experience, I should react immediately to the request of these 2 honourable members. I will see that they are examined. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say whether (a) 1) million people in Australia's major cities are still without sewerage, (b) the conference of water supply and sewerage authorities held in Sydney in May 1972 estimated that $2, 500m will be needed to be spent in the next 10 years to make a reasonable impact on the backlog of works, (c) the Sydney Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board has estimated a need for SI, 000m in the next 10 years for essential works, (d) the same Board has indicated that it will spend $100m in 1971-72 and 1972-73 and that from 1973-74 onwards new channels of finance will be needed if a severe cutback in sewerage work is to be avoided and (e) authorities in Melbourne, Perth, Hobart and the Hunter District have reported similar problems of financing and that together the authorities concerned face a shortfall of $70m per annum. 
Will he call for a report on the extent ot the financial problem and confer with the Suites and the authorities concerned to ensure a continuation of the work involved as a first priority to reduce pollution and protect the environment. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many Australian children fall within the category of isolated children, that is, children who are too far from any school or bus route to use either. 
Is a subsidy of up to $10 per week per child paid for the free school bus service. 
Is it a fact that no subsidy is paid in respect of the children who need it most, that is, those too far out to use the free buses. 
What would be the cost to the Commonwealth of providing an allowance of $15 weekly for each isolated child to live and/or board away from home to attend school, with no means test applicable and irrespective of State allowances. 
What steps is he taking to overcome the present neglect of the needs of these isolated children. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that because  ot  the serious shortage of wheat in Australia to meet commitments at home and abroad the black market, free market or .grey market - whatever term he likes to use-price has risen to $1' a bushel at the 'farm ate in many places? is he further aware that farmers' sons, share farmers and farmers taking over traditional wheat properties who have grown wheat this season but have no quota, have been told that they cannot deliver that wheat to the Australian Wheat Board? In view of the shortages and continued growth of the black market will he initiate urgent action to suspend quotas for this year at least and increase the first advance to safeguard orderly marketing and the long term interests of family farmers? 
1 rise tonight to deal with 2 matters, namely, the disaster threat of plague locusts straddling the New South Wales and Victorian border and a system of cheating with imitation milk. Before I deal with those 2 matters I should like to say that I am happy to support the reasoned case put forward by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I think that the case he made out for equal treatment for the wine grape industry is most reasonable. I commend him for putting it forward. I am very pleased to support it and I hope the Government will heed the representations of grape growers in this instance. 
In relation to the plague locusts problem, I want to say that it compounds the problems of the countryside at the present time, which are made worse by the spreading drought. Now there is an imminent disaster threatening from plague locusts. I ask the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who is at the table to convey to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  my request to take immediate action to confer with the Ministers for Agriculture in New South Wales and Victoria to ensure that everything possible be done to avert the disaster. The plague locusts have been hatching for 3 or 4 weeks and are now banding together in an army of great potential destruction which will strike on both sides of the Murray River. The outbreak extends over 3,000 square miles of the Hay and Deniliquin Pasture Protection Board districts in New South Wales. The worst affected areas in the Hay district are west of Hay on either side of the Mumimbidgee River. I have had deputations from Mathoura, Boorooban, Hay, Carrathool and Gunbar and warnings have been received from Merriwagga and Hillston. As the drought deepens every area of green pick in this great area is either a target now or a potential target for the plague locusts. 
Hay, which is an oasis in the west, with its market gardens and irrigation for pastures, is perhaps the most seriously threatened. Under the old laws of the State the menace is the responsibility of landowners, but the big properties of the west have no labour. The rural recession has emptied the properties of people. So there is a need for supportive action by the community. I ask the Minister for Primary Industry to take action to ensure that the disaster which threatens is averted. Crops valued at millions of dollars are in danger. It would be an intolerably cruel blow if producers who have survived recession, survived the last locust outbreak and are battling the drought were left to their own resources in the face of this menace which threatens in 2 States. 
I now move to a development which seems undesirable from a consumer point of view and harmful to those who produce milk. Increasingly across Australia when one orders a cup of white tea or coffee one finds that the milk is not milk at all but an artificial substitute. There is no argument about the right of the consumer to use imitations or to order imitations. But there is an argument against the consumer ordering tea with milk or coffee with milk and finding an imitation substituted for milk without his agreement. The whole development is epitomised by the use of a coffee top which is made available in my hotel room in Canberra, for example, and thousands of hotels and cafes throughout Australia. 
The description of the 'coffee top' is that of a 'non-dairy coffee and tea whitener'. There is no description on the packet of what makes up this imitation milk. On the Country Maid' packet there is a description of what the imitation milk is made from. It is a pretty ersatz mixture comprising 'artificial colour, sodium silico aluminate, dipotassium phosphate emulsifer, sodium caseinate, vegetable fat and corn syrup solids'. Instead of milk one is given the ingredients of a school chemistry set. 1 challenge you,  Mr Speaker,  to ask very easily for coffee with the formula *I have just read. I will not repeat it. At least on these packages it is indicated that the product is an imitation, and in one particular case the actual chemicals are named. But my concern is for the thousands of 1 lb and 2 lb tins - this is an example - which go to hotels, motels, restaurants and cafes, and the imitation product is used without a word being said, without restriction and without the customer being given a choice. I submit that it is unfair and improper for any customer who orders tea with milk or coffee with milk to be given instead tea or coffee with a chemical compound in substitute, without being given the choice or told what he is getting. So again I ask the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  who is sitting at the table tonight, to convey to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a request that he confer with his State colleagues with a view to ordering an all-State survey to ensure protection for the consumer and for the industry whose name is being taken in vain. 
It was arranged that at this time the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  would, as is usual on such measures, lead for the Opposition on this measure. I lead for the Opposition now, in the absence of the honourable member for Dawson due to illness. I express my regret and the regret of my colleagues that he is not able to undertake this task at this time, in view of the amount of work and dedication he has put in, from one end of Australia to the other, on this and other measures related to primary industry. 
The Bill has been introduced against a background of one of the greatest disasters that the Australian wool growers have experienced in this generation. This Bill is the Government's answer to the many demands that have been formulated by the Australian wool industry and the Australian wool growers for basic reform. The Bill, as the Government's answer to the problem, we are not opposing. But we make the point quite clearly that it is not our Bm; the solution is not our solution; and the Government's policy is not our policy. The Government's policy is still confused and uncertain, as we will show in examining this Bill. 
The Opposition's policy has been clear and definite for the past 2 years. We intend to pursue that policy and, given the opportunity, we will implement it - in contrast to the Government's answer to the problems of the wool industry and to the disaster with which the wool industry has been stricken in the past 3 years. lt is as well to remember the repeated requests that have been made by the industry for fundamental and basic reform of the industry. The major point of this Bill is that it is supposed to represent the Government's answer to industry requests. I point out that the Government, over the last 3 disastrous years, repeatedly stated that it would be guided by recommendations of the industry. The alibi is, of course, that if the industry has no recommendations the Government cannot take action. If the industry fails to be unanimous in requests, the Government, in its alibi, says that it can take no action. 
Certainly the Government takes no initiative because it says that the leadership in this matter must come from the industry concerned. For the last 3 disastrous years this has been a massive alibi for inaction when action was called for. I make it quite, clear that the whole of the Government's case for action or inaction rests on this alibi of industry requests. I suggest that this alibi has, in fact, been a fiction and a subterfuge. It was exploded by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who is the Leader of the Country Party. On 22nd September 1972, not so many days ago, at Griffith, when he was dealing with the matter of industry advice and alibis, he said in relation to wheat quotas and rationing: 
Due to unusual circumstances 3 years ago we bad a surplus of wheat 2$ times the crop we are going to get this year. We had to get the wheat growers to accept quotas. 
So much for the repeated alibi that the wheat growers suddenly and spontaneously came forward and asked the Government to ration their wheat crop in the middle of the season. That statement exploded that alibi, I think, rather well. 
I now refer to the Government's alibi in relation to this Bill. The Government has received repeated industry requests for a single national authority to acquire, process and market the clip on behalf of the. growers. This has been the continued request of the industry. The request has been backed at meetings across the countryside attended by thousands of wool growers. They made, it quite clear what they wanted. They made it quite clear where their desires lay. The Government's answer to all these requests lies in this Bill. In fact, it postpones basic reforms sought by the wool industry and wool growers. 
It seems that in this Bill the Government is intent on building a new castle of privilege for wool brokers. The Bill treats the industry's request for basic reform with simple contempt. The Government seems to be setting out to use this new authority as another committee of inquiry, perhaps to produce another Randall report. It is certainly a timeless inquiry. There is no limit. There is no instruction that basic reforms should be brought forth at any particular time, in any particular way or in any particular form. The authority is charged to look into the basic matter of reform which has occupied the industry, particularly in the last 3 years. 
We should examine what the Bill actually amounts to. It could be described as a cut and paste job on 2 existing Acts and nothing more. But what really significant change does the Bill make? It certainly gives the Minister for Primary Industry more power. It provides more protection for wool selling brokers through the auction system. The new authority is prevented from operating outside the auction system unless the Minister agrees. Why? Why this new bid to save the auction system? Why this new effort to preserve the wool selling brokers and the auction system? 
In this Bill there is no definition of auction'. The highest legal advice interprets 'auction' to mean a progressive bid system; that is, as now. So, the auction system which has brought disaster to thousands of people in the countryside is to be not only preserved but strengthened. As a matter of fact the Government seems so intent on saving the auction system and preserving the status and privileges of the wool selling brokers that it would appear under this Bill to even rule out any variations, such as have been practised by the Economic Wool Producers, of the auction system. This organisation, of course, is dedicated to a system of sealed tender. Under this legislation, unless the Minister agrees, it will not be permissible for them to continue in their activities. This is surely an extraordinary turnabout as far as the Government is concerned. 
The treatment of the independent wool buyer was discriminatory for the whole of the time of the recession in the wool industry. At that time the discrimination was in relation to subsidy; it is now in relation to the proposals we have before us. So again wc see that the Government is dedicated to the preservation and indeed to the strengthening of the auction system. When the Government can cast doubts about the continued operation of, for example, the Economic Wool Producers and when it can continue to practise discrimination against independent wool buyers, the Opposition takes this as a measure of the Government's dedication to this particular system of handling wool. 
We find this to be an extraordinary Government decision in view of the overwhelming demand of the industry for basic reform. It means that we are left with a system which was used without Government let or hindrance to inflict disastrous hardship on thousands of wool growers, thousands of country people and entire rural communities. It is important at this time to expose the Government's complicity in the exploitation of the Australian wool grower. The Government has behind it, of course, a series of alibis to justify the events of the last  3  years and the way in which the Australian wool grower was let down. The first alibi that the Government propagated in the countryside was that there was really no demand for wool because of the significant advances that had been made by synthetics. The second alibi was that we were producing too much wool. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was so carried away with this alibi that he advocated production controls. I suppose he had in mind a kind of wheat quota system for wool. But the alibi is exploded when we look at world figures. 
At the time when prices to the Australian wool grower dropped by  33  per cent the global utilisation of wool had increased by  1.5  per cent and the global production was only up at that time by less than  i  per cent. So it is difficult to sustain an alibi that there was too much wool in the world. There was in fact no over-production. There was only a decision in concert by buyers to force down prices by coasting on their purchases. This was a very reasonable decision from their point of view in the circumstances. They had some reconstructuring of their industries to undertake and there was no reason for them to continue their level of buying when they wanted a pause. 
The Minister who interjects naturally defends the Government's record over the last  3  years. I would imagine that in this debate he will apply himself to the figures and to what actually happened. I point out to the Minister that I have not finished or exhausted the figures at my disposal by any means. The Labor Party warned that buyers would defeat their purpose by squeezing the wool grower too hard. This was the warning that we issued constantly both privately and publicly to wool buyers in the last  3  years. We warned that if they continued their exploitation of the wool grower they would simply not get the wool that they undoubtedly wanted. We warned that if they continued with their dropping in price they would find that the supplies of wool would dry up. They ignored the warnings. By using their particular tactics they acquired, with the tacit agreement of the Commonwealth Government, woo! at give-away prices. When I say 'give-away prices' it is as well to remember that it is not too long ago that holes in roads were being filled with odd bits of wool that the Government regarded as expendable; there was no great need for it. The advice was, of course, to take the wool off the market. It would have been a good idea to have taken the wool off the market at the prices that were being offered, and this was the request that was made to the Government. 
What in fact happened is that they have killed many of the geese that laid the golden eggs. Between  10  million and  15  million sheep have been slaughtered. There could be a 9 per cent shortage of wool this year and a 20 per cent shortage next year. What is equally serious is that the quality of the clip could have been damaged. A total of 123 studs have closed down in New South Wales during the last 3 years of the recession. Stud ewe numbers are down by 236,000 in New South Wales alone. Yet we have had no recognition of the special plight of the studs which supply the vital genetic pool for flock improvement. 
I would like to deal with a further alibi of the Government. I refer to the current alibi that has been assiduously peddled throughout the countryside that the Government saved the woo] industry by putting a floor in the price of wool. Let us have a look at this Government's floor in the wool industry. Let us just see what it meant? 
Yes, I think the honourable member is right. 'Flaw' is correct in any interpretation of this particular action. Let us have a look at what the figures say. Let us put the words to one side and review the figures. The average market level for wool in May 1969 was 50c per lb. I bet that figure has been carefully covered up by Government spokesmen for a long time. The average price for 1968-69 was 44c a lb. The average market level of February 1970 was 42c per lb. Then, of course, we get into the trough of March 1970 when the figure was down to 32c a lb. In October of 1970 it was 29c per lb. When legislation relating to the Australian Wool Commission was passed in the third week of October 1970 the price was then 37.6c a lb - a very good improvement. This happily coincided, as so many of these things do, with the Senate elections that month. In May and June of 1971 when the Senate elections, of course, were over, the average market level was 23c per lb. For the year 1970-71 the price was 29c per lb and for the 6 months to 31st December of last year it was 28c per lb. The average price for the actual period to 30th June 1972 was 40c a lb. This was a very interesting rise. Since the start of 1972-73 selling in the third week of August the average market level for the week ending 8th September was 50c. The level was 60c for the week ending 22nd September, 66c for the week ending 29th September and 75c for the week ending 6th October. 
Let us look at this in relation to the Government's claim that it has put a floor in the price. This decrepit structure has been matched only by the Government's disastrous policies which have cost growers dearly. The inaction of the Government during this 3-year period probably has robbed the Australian wool growers and the nation of $450m. The Government was asked by 1,500 wool growers who met at Orange on 17th June 1970 to embargo the export of wool below a national average of 45c a lb. It was very interesting to see the response to that request by 1,500 wool growers who included, I might say, some of the leading men in the wool industry over the whole of the nation. This meeting was not sponsored by the Opposition. Far from it. The meeting was called mainly by former supporters of the Government and former members of Government parties. They were not interested in playing politics on that day in Orange in June 1970. They came because they were concerned with rural survival. They met because they were concerned for their industry. They had made their assessment and they disagreed with the Government. They asked the Government to take protective action but that action was not taken. 
If action had been taken to protect the wool growers who sold the wool between say 1st July 1970 and 3rd December 1971 it would not have cost the Australian taxpayers $53m for the wool subsidy. Do not forget that the subsidy operated for only 6 months between 1st July and 31st December this year. I well remember that when that legislation came into the House it was indicated that it was a measure to help the growers. The Minister for Primary Industry received a deputation from one of the hardest hit areas in the whole of Australia and that deputation gently pointed out to him that if the subsidy was just allowed to flow to the banks and to the brokers the growers would not get the money. As a matter of fact in many areas they did not receive the money. I have never been able to find out by questions on notice or by any other form of inquiry exactly what percentage of the S53m reached the woolgrowers and how much was syphoned off along the line before they received it. 
The honourable member for Mallee says it was to pay their debts. If you are going to bring in a scheme  to  help people who are faced with bankruptcy and you pay money to their creditors first- 
The storekeepers did not get the money. I am very glad that the Minister interjected. He said that the storekeepers - I hope I interpret him correctly - did not get the money. They did not get the money. Unfortunately this is true. And what is more, the shires did not get paid for outstanding rates. The priorities were such that a couple of major debtors, brokers and banks collected the majority of the subsidy and in many areas the storekeepers did not get paid and the local government authorities did not get paid. The Minister has had representations from shire presidents telling him just that. Is the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  seeking to interrupt me? 
Tell me again what you are saying because you are burbling a bit and I cannot understand you clearly. 
In regard to the distribution of the subsidy of $53m, there was complicity to give the money to the brokers and to the banks. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, that is not a point of order and the honourable member is old enough and has been in this place long enough to know that. 
I desire to address myself to the 3 amendments that have been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I might say by way of preface that my right and qualification and all the rights of the Opposition in relation to this measure have been challenged by members on the Government side and by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It appears that the only people who, according to the Government, can discuss wool are those who keep a few sheep for themselves. I reject this as quite ludicrous. On this basis we must accept it that the Government's view is that the only people who can discuss prostitution in this Parliament are prostitutes - and I might say we are a bit short on this side of the House; I do not know how the Government is fixed. This is how ludicrous the situation is. This is what was put up today. I reject it. If this is the sort of absurdity that the Government is prepared to put forward I think the Government stands exposed for the stupidity of it. What we are asked to do in this Bill is give the Government a blank cheque as to what it might or might not do in relation to the reserve price outside the auction system. The Minister says that any decision will come back to him. I find this a little bit amusing. 
Of course there is. 
Clause 38 (1.) (k) makes it pretty clear that it is only the responsibility of the authority to take such measures or recommend on such measures as the Minister approves. So what the Minister is doing is taking unto himself in this legislation the responsibility for saying whether the reserve price provisions will be extended to wool sold outside the auction system. I would say that this is a piece of active discrimination. The absurdity of it is all the more obvious when we consider that the Minister himself has only 6 weeks to run as the Minister for Primary Industry. 
You will have a new government; you will have a new Minister. 
You will have a new government; you will have a new Minister. There is a doubtful morality in a transitory Minister putting forward that there should be a corporation, a new authority and appointments for 5 years when in fact he has 6 weeks of his writ to run. 
We are not saying: 'Do nothing'. We are saying that we want to have a new system, but there should not be active discrimination against other forms of selling. This has been said by members on the Minister's own side of the House. I suggest that he listen to his own members. They have accepted his assurance. That is their privilege. It is also ours to suggest that what the Minister says he is going to do should be enshrined in the legislation, and we have put that forward in a reasonable way. It has also been said, of course, that we should not be putting this forward from our point of view because we have a shortage of sheep numbers on our side of the House. It is rather interesting that the biggest single decision on wool was made by a man who has never been a wool grower and has never lived in the countryside. That happens to be the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who on that David Frost tea party session said: T make all the important decisions. I had the problem of deciding whether or not there would be an acquisition scheme for wool. I made that decision'. And the decision is that we are not going to have it under this legislation. As the honourable member for Dawson pointed out, we will have another inquiry which could go on interminably. When the members of the Country Party talking about who makes the decisions they should heed their own Prime Minister. He seemed to put them in their place. 
He makes the decisions. I take his word for it. He apparently made this one and so have this Bill before us. Of course, the interesting thing is that this is the Bill that is an answer to the roll call of the industry for acquisition. We have had meetings at Moree of 2,700 wool growers, at Narrandera of 1,200 wool growers, at Nyngan of 1,500 wool growers, at Orange of 1,500 wool growers, at Melbourne a march of 10,000, and many smaller meetings. Altogether about 20,000 wool growers have come together with a unanimous request. The answer to that request is in this Bill introduced by the Government. 
Yes, and what an inadequate answer it is. We have said- 
The members on the Government side are apparently not only blind in one eye but terribly hard of hearing. If they could read the amendment which is before them they would see that it states:  to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation, of a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencment of this Act. 
This is our heeding of the voices of the industry. This is what we have said that we will do. This is what we want to see. The Government has only made some words available to us again. As far as we are concerned, it is just not good enough. 
Sittings suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the fact that the Bill discriminates against every method of selling except the auction system. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  at the second reading stage of the debate gave certain assurances. Certainly his words are quite different from the words in the Bill. We posed the question and we pose it again: Why should there be some discrimination against orga nisations like the Economic Wool Producers and people like  Mr James  of Cleckheaton Ltd, a company which is now involved in the Riverina in wool production as well as using wool in manufactures? Why should they be excluded? The Minister has said in a vague and imprecise way that there are some difficulties but he will undertake to make sure that they are covered. We do not accept that at all because we do not see the reason why the Bill should say something different from what the Minister says.. We will persist with our amendment for that reason. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  said something about the difficulty of finding out how much private buyers pay for wool. I do not think there is any difficulty at all because, after all, under the subsidy scheme the books and returns of the private buyers have to be dealt with, they have to be covered. There is full knowledge of them to enable the people who made the sales to qualify for the subsidy, so that there' is no excuse there. We -must ask ourselves why there is this strangeness in the Bill. I think the reason is obvious. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has made a decision that there shall not be an acquisition scheme. He said , that he made that decision. He has also made quite clear that his solution to the wool , industry's problems is to move out 11,000 to .14,000 wool growers. Both decisions of the Prime Minister are very unpalatable for the people around the countryside. 
How is. anybody to go to the countryside 6 weeks before an election and say that the Prime Minister will phase out up to 14,000 wool growers, that he will not have an acquisition scheme that 20,000 people in the wool industry have asked for at the meetings to which I have referred? How is that to be done? The answer is very simple. It is done through this Bill. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out so powerfully earlier, this is simply a device to put off the decision. If there is any real dedication to fundamental and basic reform and if there is a serious desire on the part of Government supporters, whether in the Liberal Party or the Country Party, they have an opportunity to show that seriousness, to show a desire for reform by voting for the amendment that we have put forward. 
It is too much to ask at this stage, at long last, that after 6 months a decision should be made? Is that unreasonable? If we were simply talking about a time limit the Minister might rise and say that 6 months is a little short and that he would probably like 9 months. That is a good pregnant period. I might say that we would probably be prepared to discuss it with the Government and the Minister if he had a period in mind, but in fact no period is specified. It is a timeless undertaking and therefore it does not seem to us to be a serious undertaking at all but simply a way of papering over the differences between the Prime Minister and the Liberal Party on the one hand and the Country Party on the other hand. I do not want to do either of them an injustice. I can take the words of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  and accept them and say that that is his serious view and we know where he stands. I can take the words of the Minister in relation to this measure and those of some of his colleagues who say that they want an overall acquisition scheme. 
Surely we have come to an end to words and we should now be asking for some definite action to be taken. The Government has presided over a situation in which the processing industry processes only 6 per cent of the national wool clip. There are fewer scours now than there were in 1900. After all of the talk it has been left to Japan and Japanese interests to set up the first decentralised processing plant at Orange. All I can say is that the Japanese interests are doing what has been asked for by Australian communities. They sought the co-operation of the Australian Government and they did not get it. It is for these reasons we put forward the amendment. 
 We are dealing with 2 Bills tonight, namely, the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill and the Bill which relates to an agreement between the Commonwealth and one or more of the States in respect of a scheme to provide assistance to persons engaged in fruit growing, which is called the tree-pull scheme. The tree-pull scheme operates for one year and the apple and pear stabilisation scheme operates for 5 years. In justice to the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  I mention that I was not sure to which scheme he was referring. One is for one year and the other is for 5 years. Perhaps I share his confusion. 
The Bills came down against a background of fruit growers in some cases not being paid anything at all for fruit delivered 18 months ago. One grower is owed $16,000 for fruit he spent money to produce, harvest and deliver. The fruit has been processed and sold and he still has not been paid. Many others have been paid something of what is owed to them, but many are in personal difficulties and all are in doubt about the future. Hundreds have faced real personal hardship because of slow payments or not being paid at all. This is a fact we must remember. But let us look at the problem just for a moment as it presents itself to the hard-hit producers in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. They have seen the Commonwealth Government make generous provision to enable Victorian growers to be paid. They have seen the South Australian Government move quickly to ensure that all fruit was taken last season and paid for. They have been told that Victoria has planted 26,000 more peach trees this year and they have heard that the major Victorian canner is interested in taking all of the coming season's crop. Also, there have been suggestions that Victoria will face a shortage of peaches. All of these reports have been coming to us from Victoria. We have heard from the member who represents the fruit growing districts of South Australia, in regard to the crisis say: 
T have looked at the forecast statistics which make it plain that within four or five years there could well be a shortage of peaches which is the main primary produce in my area - Riverland. 
We go back to Victoria.  Mr Peter  RossEdwards, the State member for Shepparton, the major canning centre of that Slate, said: 
A realistic look has to be given to the canning facilities available in the light of reduced processing. In particular a decision has to be made whether canning should continue in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. Leeton cannery is in difficulties and it is in the Government's bands whether it should continue. 
Well, that is a pretty blunt statement from the member for Shepparton. 
In Western Australia a cannery had a loss of $100,000 for the first quarter of this year. The State Government of Western Australia has now decided to make $400,000 available to expand the cannery. So we have a fragmented picture of contradiction and confusion. In contrast to the references from the member for South 
Australia about the possible shortage of peaches, similar talk from Victoria and the Western Australian expansion, the growers of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area have been told that an acreage reduction of 25 per cent is likely in the next 12 months based on figures of their requirements for the 1972-73 season released by canneries there. It is little wonder that the growers are beginning to believe that there is at least tacit agreement that the New South Wales industry should be phased down at least and possibly out. 
I want to serve notice again that this is totally unacceptable to me and the people whom I represent. How does the national Government see this problem? I think that the Parliament tonight should have in mind 2 relevant statements that were made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In introducing this legislation the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
It is an unfortunate fact that prices Australian fruit growers are able to secure on overseas markets for fresh and canned fruit have declined markedly in recent years while costs have risen  At the same time the quantity of fruit that we have been able to sell overseas has also fallen. These difficulties are certain to be accentuated when the United Kingdom is fully integrated into the European Economic Community. 
This was the Minister's assessment at the second reading stage. The Minister for Trade and Industry applied himself to the problem in this House on 13th September in these words: 
It is not possible to say now what the final effects of British entry will be but satisfactory alternative markets will be found for some of the displaced trade. But there can be no question that, for a number of our export industries, the consequences will be severe. Fresh, canned and dried fruits, dairy products, wines, and possibly sugar are among these likely, to be affected most. 
So we find that the Government has announced 2 answers to the. problem so far. One is a tree-pull scheme put before the Parliament tonight limited by a most rigorous means test. And the Minister for Trade and Industry in relation to the general problem with the United Kingdom told the Parliament on 13th September: 
I made certain proposals designed to ameliorate the expected difficulties which our trade will encounter. These proposals are in the process of being considered . . . 
That is a pretty clear indication that the Government and the Minister for Trade and Industry has made proposals to the Government of Britain. The British response, through the British Prime Minister and the British Foreign Secretary, is that they have no proposals before them. The British Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food,  Mr Tom  Prior, said in a letter to  Mr Leslie  Huckfield, the British member of Parliament: 
We gave no specific assurances on canned fruits to  Mr Anthony  and indeed it would not have been possible for us te do so. 
So that seems to dispose of that. We are left with the problem of finding a new home for 65 per cent of canned fruit, 37 per cent of dried fruit and 36 per cent of fresh fruit exports. Against this background we come to the present scheme. 1 might say, in relation to apples and pears, that a solution of the problem is a matter of almost life or death to the economy of Tasmania. When we look at the overall treatment of Tasmania it is almost as if Tasmania is an occupied territory. It has been neglected in shipping and neglected in aid - particularly industry aid. Tasmania has been neglected in any continuing attack on costs. The result of this attitude by the national Government is hardship throughout the length and breadth of Tasmania. The Tasmanian members of the Labor Party - the honourable members for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  will be dealing in detail with these matters. But certainly we said on a previous occasion when the stabilisation scheme came in that we support a national solution to apple and pear stabilisation. We support national organisation and new national initiatives. If we are not going to make new national initiatives then it is obvious that the Tasmanians will be left in frustration, because they are obviously not able to bear themselves all the burdens created by national policies. We were right in our approach to the problem as it affected Tasmania. The Government has acknowledged this by the amendment that it has brought down. I seconded a further amendment because it is obvious that this is the, way we should proceed. We want to see the figure for stabilisation payment reviewed every year, particularly the figure of $4,900,000. 
Coming back to the canned fruits industry, I would say that the whole industry is being left adrift fay the Government. The canners do not know what the Government intends, and in fact the Government is saying different things at the present time. The growers are bearing the hardship burden. The story in every State appears to be different. The Government has a responsibility to spell out its intentions. The measures that are before us are inadequate. As the honourable member for Dawson said, if the Government helps one grower somewhere in Australia it will be worth while. Frankly, it is doubtful whether the Government will help many more than that. But I want to make the point tonight that we have seen how this scheme may work in other States. 
Before I deal with the Victorian position I want to draw attention to what  Mr R.  J. Cornish, the  president  of the Victorian Peach and Apricot Growers' Association has said about the statement made by the Minister and the Government - he was referring to the Minister for Primary Industry - which is quite misleading in relation to the scheme. An article published in the 'Shepparton News' of 4th October 1972 states: 

 Mr Cornish said the statement made in July by the Minister for Primary Industry that $2.3m was being made available for the tree pull scheme was quite misleading. 
The Government imposed means test would successfully prevent the spending of most of the money. 
He then went on to give an indication of what happened in the past. As a matter of fact I can confirm from my own knowledge what  Mr Cornish  has said. The article continued: 
. the Federal Government had instigated the appointment of a committee to advise it on reconstruction of the canning fruit industry. 
This committee subsequently recommended that, as a first stage only $2.5m be made available to remove half the surplus trees. 
The committee recommended that a subsidy to remove surplus trees was the most practical and economical way of solving the problems of the Canned Deciduous Fruit Industry. 
He is quite right. I support that assessment. The article in reporting  Mr Cornish's  statement continued: 
At no stage did the committee recommend a means test and at no stage did Government officials who are members of this committee advise the committee that a means test would be introduced. 
We come to the kernel of the problem. While in New South Wales the Government simply has gone along with the rather vague generality that growers will be able to apply - that they hope of course that there will be help there - the Government of New South Wales has been most unspecific. The only specific action taken under this Bill so far has been taken in Victoria. I have with me tonight in correspondence offers made under this scheme by the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission of Victoria. I quote a case in which the Commission offers as compensation an amount of $3,390 for the removal of 33.3 acres of peaches. At the same time it says that a condition of the offer will be the surrender of shares which amount to $900. The Commission said: 
This compensation, if acceptable to you, will initially be made in the form of a S-year loan carrying an interest rate of 7 per cent  per  annum. 
The Commission's letter goes on to say: 
As you are the purchaser under a lease from the Commission you may anticipate the Commission's consent to the proposal on the understanding that the Commission would require compensation paid in reduction of its debt less costs ot removal (if these are required). 
What  an  extraordinary offer that is. What the Commission is saying to this grower is: We will give you $3,390 to remove 33.3 acres of peaches. We will take your $900 in shares. You owe us $9,500'. He has 55 year to pay that. That will take care of the rest of the money after he has taken out his tree pull expenditure in satisfaction of the debt. 
That is a most extraordinary situation. It leaves him with no trees and no income, and he has only a partial diminution of his debt to the Commission. It does not touch the other debts. This does not leave him anything with which to replant or to go into some other enterprise. That is not the only case. In this letter, which is signed by the Secretary,  Mr M.  J. Cronin, the Commission goes on to say: 
We are not aware of any other party who may have an interest in the land and if there is any such party you would want to inform them of developments as well as inform the Commission as to their viewpoint. 
So the Secretary of the Commission, which represents the Victorian Government, is saying to the grower: 'Go to your other creditors and see if they are happy. If they are not happy I do not suppose we will be in business at all.* What sort of a scheme is this? 
Let us see what it means. In 4 cases there have been refusals for assistance under the scheme. The applicants are all of the same category. Each has no debt but wishes to leave the industry before he gets into debt. Each was unable to sell enough fruit last season to make a profit. The prospects for next season are worse. Each will be forced into debt if a reasonable offer continues to be refused. But their applications were refused because they were not in enough trouble. Let me quote another case. The first plantings on the orchard were in 1957, and all the trees are in their prime and well cared for. In these circumstances top compensation should have been offered but the amount offered was $1.04 a tree. 
Yes, and naturally the orchardist refused the offer. It was not an offer at all. It was a piece of blatant blackmail. Another case involved an old orchard with a larger proportion of pear trees on which, it is submitted, higher compensation should be paid. The compensation offered was totally inadequate. In another case a first class orchard was replanted in 1957 and all the trees are in their prime and well cared for. The offer was 94c a tree. This grower has tried to change to pig raising. If he were to accept the terms offered by the Commission he would be forced off his holding. 
I have some information from the Returned Services League which has been vigorous and active in this matter. The Thirty-one District Board of the RSL consists of some very independent minded people. They have said that this is totally unsatisfactory. This is not a Party political matter. Even  Senator McManus  has directed in the Senate questions in relation to representations by orchardists in the Goulburn Valley. He asked: 
Is the complaint correct that to obtain a tree pull grant under the present Government proposals, orchardists must forfeit their cannery shares? Are such orchardists being told that the cannery shares are valueless, although within the last 12 months such shares were valued for probate at $3 a share and a widow concerned was forced to pay at that rate although in indigent circumstances? 

 Senator Drake-Brockman apparently did not know anything about it and he said he would find out. There is no doubt about the situation. The situation is outlined in letters from the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission. 
This is a situation that concerns me. It concerns me as a matter of philosophy because of the injustice to the growers, and we are concerned about injustice in ail States. I am also deeply concerned because if this is the pattern that is going to be adopted in New South Wales it will affect my own electorate and growers to whom I have allegiances. There will be a situation where the growers will be bludgeoned into removing trees and they will be left without a source of income. They will have no money to turn to other enterprises and they will lose some of the equity they have at the present time. The situation as it unfolds is quite unsatisfactory. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has made it quite clear that the Minister has a responsibility to spell out what the Government's policy is in these cases. I pose this question clearly and definitely: Will the Minister give firm assurances on this? He is not paying very much attention at the present time. If he does not pay attention he might rue it later on, because I am not sure that the Senate will be so docile as are members on his side of this House. Unless we get clear and definite assurances that the States will not take the Commonwealth money as a matter of priority in satisfaction of the growers' debts then we will move relevant amendments in the Senate. If there is not satisfactory delineation of the means test, or a spelling out the means test, if you like, to ensure that growers who apply for assistance are covered in the main then we will take appropriate action. It is not enough to throw this scheme down as the only thing that we have before us as a solution to the crisis and to say: That is it. Take it or leave it.' That has been the attitude of the Government to every amendment which we have put forward for the last 3 years. 
We have an amendment relating to the tree pull legislation but we have said: 'No, we will not move an amendment in this place. We will invite the Minister to give those assurances.' Members of the Opposition who follow me in this debate will note very carefully the reply of the Minister, as will the honourable member for Dawson, and if the reply is unsatisfactory then the Minister may expect that the Opposition will take action to protect the interests of fruit growers who may well be threatened by this legislation rather than assisted. That is our position on it and we will stand to it. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I draw attention to the fact that the Schedule to this Bill, in referring to the administration of the scheme, states: 
Each State will, by using the financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth in accordance wilh this Agreement, establish and operate a scheme of financial assistance to persons engaged in fruit-growing industries in that State. 
The House has had before it and the Committee has before it now the clear evidence of the intention of the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission in Victoria not to do this. It will in fact be taking the funds. It has already made the offers under the legislation. It will take the money in settlement of its debts. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  served fair warning on the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government during the second reading debate and in the Committee stage we again draw the Minister's attention to it to give him a last chance to clarify this matter. Otherwise, as the honourable member for Dawson has pointed out, the Opposition will take further steps in the Senate to satisfy doubts about the means test and the lifting of the funds by government authorities. There are grave doubts about this Bill. I draw the Committee's attention to the fact that the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  in Renmark, South Australia, a few days ago, as reported on Sth October, said: 
I personally do not agree with the tree pull scheme nor will I accept any responsibility for its implementation. 
What clearer condemnation of the scheme could one have than that from the former Prime Minister? We had during the second reading debate a clear statement of doubt by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who said: 
If this scheme is to work, significant alterations to it will be necessary. 
I commend him for his forthrightness. The growers' leaders in Victoria and New South Wales have opposed the scheme as now conceived in relation to the means test and the lifting of funds by government agencies. On Sunday morning a meeting of canning fruit growers held at Hanwood near Griffith in my electorate unanimously asked that the scheme be implemented without means test and without government agencies having first call on the money. They did this quite unanimously and I put their request to the Minister, the Government and the Committee today. I entirely support the view put forward by the growers in New South Wales and Victoria and endorse the resolutions passed and adopted by the growers of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. I concur in the doubts expressed by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins, and the honourable member for Murray, Even the honourable member for Angas said that he was not in complete agreement and would like to see a widening of the guidelines. I must say that he amazed me by saying that the means test was just. 
The honourable member felt that it was more generous. I hope he is not suggesting that it is adequate. I am happy to have his assurance on that. I direct the Minister's attention to the widespread dissatisfaction with this proposal on all sides of the Parliament. Industry leaders, State leaders and members of Parliament on the Government and Opposition sides are saying to the Minister: Please give us a clear assurance that you will go to the States and say bluntly that the means test must be lifted and that the money which will be made available under the scheme will not go to the government agencies which are now claiming it'. These are not matters of abstract concern. 
I have in my possession the copies of replies by and firm proposals of the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission of Victoria. It is quite clearly substantiated that the situation is that if the scheme goes on in the way now envisaged the growers will not get the money. In the Schedule to the Bill it says that the money will go to persons engaged in the fruit-growing industry. It will not. The growers will give up their plantings and will get in return a credit of some of their debts to State bodies. The Minister in his reply to the second reading debate said that the scheme would be reviewed in February but it has been pointed out by other honourable members that by February it will be too late for many of the people who need assistance now. Yet we have all these months of waiting. Surely it is not beyond the wit and will of the Minister and the Government to say that the evidence which has been presented from all sides of the Parliament indicates that the scheme is too restrictive and will not help and that, therefore, further guidelines will be issued. Ministerial instructions, accompanied by finance to the States, I am sure would be most welcome because I know that when the rural reconstruction scheme, initiated by the Commonwealth Government, came before the authorities in New South Wales they took the words of the legislation and of the Minister when introducing the legislation to Parliament and interpreted them to mean that the scheme had to be- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! I do not want to restrict the honourable member for Riverina but I would draw his attention to the fact that we are now in committee. 
I am making a passing point. The authorities interpreted all those words as meaning that there had to be a tough line taken. What I am trying to show is that the Minister by his own initiative could obviate the situation which is now resulting. It is not an abstract situation. We have evidence before the Committee that what we feared would happen - that is, that the growers would not get the money - is happening. I am pointing out how this can be obviated by the assurances of the Minister and the Government. I am sure that the States would welcome an announcement along these lines. Surely the industry is entitled to a clarification of the doubts that have been expressed. I do not know of any legislation that has come before Parliament in the last 3 years which has been so openly and widely questioned by all concerned and by all members of Parliament. I support the honourable member for Dawson in saying to the Minister that the assurances should be given. If it is not the Opposition will have to take further action in the Senate to protect the fruit growers. 
 I want to pose to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a final question which seems to me to be largely the kernel of our concern about this scheme. It concerns the specific request by the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission in Victoria in relation to a case in which it offered $3,390 as compensation for the removal of 33.3 acres of peach trees. A condition was surrender of shares valued at about $900. I shall read the paragraph of the conditions very carefully because I would like the Minister to interpret it for us and to say whether this is in accordance with the Commonwealth's desires. It reads: 
As you are the purchaser under a lease from the Commission you may anticipate the Commission's consent to the proposal on the understanding that the Commission would require compensation paid in reduction of its debt- 
The Commission's debt - less costs of removal if these are required. 
The residue of the debt to the Commission was about $9,000. It was a loan over a period of 55 years. Of course, the Minister says in reply that the growers will get the money. The point I am making is that under this limited proposal the grower will not receive the money. I pose this as perhaps the kernel of the problem. 
I was dealing earlier with the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Bill which is designed to extend the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers at the existing level until 31st December 1974. In his second reading speech the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  touched on one sad fact, that is, that the consumption of these fertilisers fell quite markedly in 1970-71 due primarily to drought and wheat quotas which indicates that there was a drop in land preparation, a drop in fertiliser use and a drop in production. This is something that will have to be changed and we can look forward, I hope, to increased utilisation. 
The point in relation to which I mainly rose is that the money appropriated by this Parliament on measures such as this should go to those for whom it is intended - in this case, the primary producer. The Bill provides $1Om to ensure that primary producers receive 125,000 tons of nitrogenous fertilisers at approximately world parity prices. It is a fact of our national life that in tariff protection cash equivalents in bounties and subsidies, other forms of protection and support amount to about $3,000m overall. Of that large sum of money the rural sector receives less than 8300m, or one-tenth. The assistance provided under this Bill is part of that one-tenth. It is rather important from the Parliament's point of view that the money goes in full to those for whom it is intended. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  earlier in the debate questioned whether the subsidy would be going to the producers or whether it might be going to the distributors. It is not intended for the distributors. It is intended to support the more efficient use of land by primary producers. 
There are questions which I would like to pose in this regard. One is whether the costs are being properly computed. Is advertising being included? Are all the range of expenses that are fed into the costs right and proper? If they are not, it could well be that we are directing the money not to the producer but to those in the middle. Perhaps it goes to the middle man and not to the purchaser. This could well be the situation. This question could be posed: Generally how much of the $300m in rural support does reach the producer for whom it is intended by this Parliament? How much is siphoned off? How much is absorbed along the way? How much goes to the middle man? 1 would not be surprised if a considerable portion of that $300m does get lost in the pipeline. We certainly have some examples of the misuse of, shall we say, decisions of the Parliament. One to which I refer in passing was the removal of a portion of the wine excise. The wine excise imposed 2 years ago was cut by 50 per cent. We had some slick city cellarmasters collecting the excise. It did not go to the benefit of the producer and it did not go to the benefit of the consumer. It was pocketed along the way. 1 would like to think that there was some means of checking on this situation. 
In the United States Congress there is a general accounting unit that ensures that the intentions of the Congress are implemented. The unit carries out continuing investigations over a very wide range - in fact over the total legislative range of the Congress. It would certainly be good if we could apply such procedures to ensure that the decisions of the Parliament, as the representative of the people, are implemented in accordance with its wishes and determination. How much of the subsidy is reaching the producers is the question in hand. I think we have come to the time when we could consider the formation within the Department of Customs and Excise of a special subsidy squad designed to ensure that the wishes of the Parliament are carried out. I know that there are procedures and that there are returns but I question whether the procedures are adequate. 1 question whether sufficient visits are made and sufficient investigation is made into the practices which have been called into question during this debate by honourable members on both sides of the House. A subsidy squad could act in a special way. Such a squad could apply itself to tha questions that have been raised today. I am sure that the Minister will say: 'This is our intention. We will do our best to ensure that it is carried out.' The questions that have been raised are serious enough in my opinion to warrant further investigation. Certainly in relation to the wine excise which was pocketed by the middle man the formation of a subsidy squad would have been a good measure, because there is nothing like a salutary visit by 1 or 2 officers saying: 'The Parliament of the Commonwealth made a decision. Did you abide by it?' There would have been some very interesting answers by the cellarmasters to that question. So I put forward the proposal that a subsidy squad be formed to keep honest the people involved in handling the money voted by the Parliament in measures such as this. Let us ensure that the $300m which goes to the rural sector reaches the people for whom it is intended by this Parliament. 
I  return to the questions which I posed earlier and which the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  I thought, attempted to torpedo with some unlettered ignorance. In fact, the major point at issue here is that under the formula which the Government puts forward it is likely that the price of fertiliser will increase. The questions posed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the questions posed by the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  seem to me to be worthy of some further attention. They have been reposed. The essential point is that the intention of the Parliament is to keep the price of fertiliser stable and at the present level. The indications are that the price will increase. What is the formula of computation involved here? There was no suggestion that the officers of the Department of Customs and Excise were not doing their job. I think the withdrawal from the battle scene of the Minister for the Navy is very timely, and we can get back to the matters that are properly before the Committee. The right honourable member for Fisher was the Minister for Primary Industry for a very long time. 
He discharged his functions with distinction. He was charged with the protection and the advancement of Australia's agriculture. He posed some very serious questions and he has every right to do so. The questions which he posed were the ones on which I hinged my argument that we be absolutely sure that there is no loss, no leak, of the money along the way. There was no suggestion that there were any improprieties in the Department; the suggestion was that perhaps that the follow up in the field was inadequate. That is a perfectly reasonable point of view, and I put forward also the wine excise as an example of this sort of thing. It is not directly related to the Bill but it is a topic which comes under the same portfolio. So I think it is a fair submission to put to the Committee that these questions should be answered by the Minister in the manner and in the spirit in which they were put forward. I come back to the fact that it is very likely that the price of fertiliser will rise. Is this rise due to costs which we can bring under the scrutiny of this Committee with a view to having them contained? These are the technical questions before us and I hope that they can be dealt with. 
I desire to make a personal explanation,  Mr Chairman. 
I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Fisher, who has just resumed his seat. He stated during the course of his address that I had made the statement- 
I beg your pardon. I meant to say the honourable member for McPherson. 
It is only because I am dealing with a mixed up member of the House; otherwise everything would have been perfectly all right. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for McPherson in relation to a statement which I made on the 'Four Corners' programme of the ABC at the weekend. I should point out also that the honourable member for McPherson misrepresented the ABC. I repeated on that programme a statement which I made in this House on 28th September in the presence of his Leader and which went unchallenged either by his Leader or the honourable member at the time. It related to the Prime Minister's statement in this House on foreign ownership of Australia. I said: 
Nowhere did he- 
That is the Prime Minister -  refer to the great alienation of land and water resources. No where did he refer to the fact that about 250 million acres of land are now owned or controlled outside this country. 
I stand by that statement. It is substantiated and I suggest that the honourable member should listen a little more attentively in future. 

 Mr BARNES (McPherson) - I have been misrepresented. I was referring to the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'Four Corners'. I based my remarks on that. 
If the words spoken by the Government on decentralisation over 23 years were bricks we would already have 20 new cities, but all we have after 23 years is this National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill. What it turns out to be, after 23 years of gestation, is a pretty toothless old hag. It simply provides for an Authority that has no real authority. It has no money. It has not even a compulsion to do things, according to the brief that has been presented to the Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  It does not even have to produce a report until Jone nest year. As has been pointed out by my colleagues, the Prime Minister stated that it is not the Government's intention that the Authority should produce by that time - that is June, half way through next year - a definite statement on a national urban and regional development strategy. So after 23 years we are to have a group that will give some advice which may or may not be accepted. 
I live in Griffith in New South Wales. This town represents the last major effort in government decentralisation which has come to fruition in SO years. It is true that since that time a government - incidentally, of the same complexion as the present Government - began the scheme of which the town of Coleambally is the centre. We hope it will grow and develop. But this is all that has been happening in our nation over this long time. The failure of policies past and present is also indicated by the fact that at the time of the nation's first census in 1911 the demographic centre of Australia was near the black stump which happens to be situated between the towns of Griffith and Hillston in New South Wales. More than half a century later the demographic centre of Australia is still within 5 miles of that point. In other words, the spread of population - .the decentralisation of population - has moved only 5 miles since we became a united country. 
The last census told the same story. The urban population gained nearly 1.3 million people since the previous census of 1966. The countryside generally had a net loss of about 145,000 people. The Queensland Minister for Lands has been so incensed by the drift to the metropolises that he said the other day: 
More than 80,000 people have given up rural jobs in Australia in the past 5 years and the massive exodus is continuing. One thousand three hundred people have abandoned their properties in (that time and 50,000 have left country towns. 
That was a statement by the Minister for Lands in the Queensland conservative Government. It is a fair indictment of the position that has been and is now. The Opposition takes issue with this legislation because it does not change that drift. It does not have the force of action. The Prime Minister spoke about decentralisation and said that we must have it; we need it. We hear that pretty regularly at election time. I suppose decentralisation' would be the most overworked word in the English language in country areas at election time. It is almost an incantation. But behind the words are the deeds. 
The greatest building boom in the history of Sydney and Melbourne is in progress at this time. At this very moment 160 skyscrapers costing more than $700m are being built, have been approved or are in the process of being considered in Sydney. Banks, hire purchase companies and health insurance funds are spending up to $70m on a single project. Honourable members opposite might say that the Government does not control this development. We say that the Government should have positive policies which will guide the big spenders on city real estate away from this kind of development. But the Government is taking part in centralised city development. The Commonwealth Government, in this year of trial and difficulty in the countryside, has approved new giant office complexes in Sydney and Melbourne estimated to cost $100m. The most overcrowded square mile in the world is Sydney, and the Commonwealth is going to make it even more unlivable and overcrowded by spending $50m on a government office block at Woolloomooloo of all places, lt has been suggested that this will not proceed, but we have heard about the plans for long enough. 
Government and semi-government agencies in Sydney have 32 per cent of all the office space. The Commonwealth Government pays $7.5m in big city rents in addition to the huge conglomeration of real estate it actually owns. We are heading towards the stage reached in London a few years ago where a firm built a huge block in the centre of the city and left it vacant for years while reaping the benefit of the tax losses the empty skyscraper represented. We regard this as misapplication of our national resources. The people in the struggling towns in the countryside should appreciate that very little is being done in comparison with the developments taking place in the cities. 
The New South Wales Government has compounded the errors by approving the spending of $10m an acre to re-develop The Rocks area. A side effect of this is that the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission has to leave its headquarters at Conservation House, which is perfectly large and commodious, and will go to North Sydney to rented premises which will cost the State more than the profits of all the fruit growers put together. All that the present plans for Sydney and Melbourne will do will be to choke the cities with people by day and leave them dead by night. The people are beginning to revolt. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who preceded me in this debate have made the point that what has been done has led to a discomfort of life in our capital cities and to the starvation of our rural areas. 
What we are concerned about is that the measure before us does not reverse that trend. It is more an expression of pious hope than anything else. One of the things that we have set out to do is to present a new deal for the countryside. Of first priority is the restoration of confidence, credit and collateral to rural industry. We want to set up the administration of the new deal and make funds available to tackle telecommunications, freight and fuel, and power equalisation. We would give priority to providing direct government incentives in tax concessions and the provision of essential services in building regional centres and new country cities. Income tax rebates would operate along the lines of Australian government incentives in Papua New Guinea where a virtual tax holiday of 5 years is given. 
These are the fundamental decisions of a new deal. They are firm commitments. They certainly form a striking contrast to the legislation before us which would give us a further advisory body and little else. I enthusiastically endorse the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid which states, in essence, that this Bill simply creates a mere investigatory and advisory body which will have no real authority. We are anxious to see some action because surely the time for words alone has long passed. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is the water level in Lake Pedder now only 12 feet above normal winter level. 
If so, does this indicate that the target for filling the lake will not be met. 
If the position is as stated, will the environmental aspects of the scheme based on Lake Pedder be considerably altered. 
Will he inquire into the present position in relation to the stage reached and the effects on the environment to date. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he will study the statement by his predecessor the right honourable member for Higgins when he spoke at Renmark in South Australia on 3rd October and said: 
I have a confession to make. I was the man who brought in the wine tax but am now prepared to admit it was a mistake. 
Will the Prime Minister also note that the Deputy Prime Minister, in a statement in support of his candidate in the electorate of Angas, stated that the Country Party stands for the abolition of the wine tax in its entirety? In view of these statements by the 2 men on either side of him will the Prime Minister agree that the wine tax should go? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the - Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say whether credit is extended to farmers in Canada for periods up to 30 years, in New Zealand and South Africa up to 35 years, in the United States of America up to 40 years and in the United Kingdom up to 60 years. 
What is the longest term of credit extended to Australian farmers by any Government agency other than the Rural Assistance Board. 
Are the present rural lending facilities considered adequate. 
If not, what specific measures has he taken to improve the facilities and along what lines. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Following the award of the contract for the advertising rights for the Victorian Pink Pages telephone directories to an American company, Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd, did his Department give an assurance to the staff of Edward H. 
O'Brien Pty Ltd, that the management of Directories (Aust.) Pty Ltd had already indicated a willingness to employ people in Melbourne currently employed by Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. 
Can he say whether 7 of O'Brien's clerical staff have been refused employment by the American firm and that 33 of the remaining staff, because of uncertainty of the future, have taken outside employment. 
Can he also say whether O'Brien's head artist has been told that he is not required after 18 years continuous service, salesmen of the company will cease employment on 27th October 1972 and other staff have not yet received any indication of their employment prospects. 
If the position is as stated, will he order a reconsideration of the decision to let this contract to an overseas firm. 
A most serious situation has developed over certain Australian commercial air routes that is posing a threat to the lives of commercial pilots and their crews and passengers and about which they have protested repeatedly. 1 am pleased to see that the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is present. I refer in particular to low level Royal Australian Air Force jet routes intersecting regular public transport routes operated by TransAustralia Airlines, Airlines of New South Wales, East-West Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia, plus tertiary operations. Air Force practice overshoots have been carried out when commercial airlines have been on the tarmac and light aircraft in the vicinity, and there was a threat of damage and death. These practice flights have been engaged in despite the example of the recent catastrophe in Japan when a military training aircraft destroyed itself and a passenger-laden Boeing 727. This situation is occurring and recurring without even the possibility of direct inter-aircraft communication. Pilots are deeply concerned about this. Some passengers who have become aware of the situation have become frightened at the prospects of disaster. 
I will put the case in detail. Approximately a year ago a military aircraft, training in an area where regular public transport operates and at a scheduled time of arrival, collided with a Boeing 727 causing the worst aircraft accident in Japan's history. Civil aviation is international in nature inasmuch as all countries and operators contribute to common pools of information, that is, in the fields of safety, operation, traffic and so on. One group learns from the experience and mistakes of others, particularly from obvious and blatant mistakes in areas where only a hairline divides tragedy from good luck. On the east coast of Australia we have a situation where military aircraft in training practice low level navigation, aerodrome overshoots and so on. These are important and necessary factors for aircrew proficiency. However, it would appear that the liaison between the RAAF and the Department of Civil Aviation leaves much to be desired inasmuch as the RAAF takes precedence over regular public transport operators. Indeed, it would appear that the RAAF adopts the attitude 'We are not going to be told by civilians how, when and where to operate'. Witness to this attitude is the fact that RAAF operations do not comply with the requirement applied to all civil aircraft that they make a radio call within specified distances of all airports. 
There are a great many regular public transport operations that do not come within the ambit of Air Traffic Control. That is, the separation or distance between the aircraft is not controlled and relies, for the purposes of maintaining safety standards, on basic laid down rules, the most important of which is to establish radio contact between aircraft in the vicinity to arrange their own separation, lt would appear that the RAAF cannot afford to provide the necessary equipment for this purpose and has to relay through intermediary stations to advise of aircraft position changes and changes in altitude. With aircraft operating at speeds at which the Mirage and Phantom aircraft operate, it is ludicrous to suggest that satisfactory standards of safety can be maintained as the time involved in such a relay system is considerable. The combined speed of 2 aircraft could be 12 to 15 miles a minute. 
It is granted that there is need for both the civil and military operations. But why should this have to breach air navigation legislation on separation and air safety. Such breaches on the part of 2 civil aircraft would have immediate and serious repercussions with probable suspension of licences. The story in the industry is that the loss of the Phantom aircraft at Evans Head was the result of a misreading of altitude. Only the RAAF would know about that. Murphy's law predicts that if such a situation is allowed to persist, eventually some civil aircraft will become the headline. 
I now cite Air Safety Incident Report lodged with the Department of Civil Aviation which relates to a flight from Casino to Coffs Harbour. It reads as follows: 
ETA Coffs Harbour X Casino cruising level 7,500 ft we were informed by Colfs Harbour F.S.U. thai 3 Mirage HNJ, HNI and HNM on  a  training flight Williamtown-Tamworth-Colfs HarbourWilliamtown would be making passes at Coffs Harbour, airport below 500 ft at time 2347, 2352 and 0002GMT. We- 
This is the civil pilot's report -   . . decided to hold north of Coffs Harbour, until the military aircraft cleared the area. When informed of this (relay ultra high frequency Coffs Harbour) HNI obliged by holding clear until our landing. Practice overshoots were carried out by these aircraft before and after we were on the ground with a light aircraft DEU in the circuit. Despite the example of the recent catastrophe in Japan where a military training aircraft destroyed itself and a passenger laden Boeing 727. This ridiculous situation occurs and recurs without even the possibility of direct interaircraft communication. Perhaps when one of us becomes a tragic "headline" some action may be taken.' 
This is the report of the pilot, not the honourable member for Riverina. 
I hope that the honourable member's hearing is in order. I said: 'I now cite Air Safety Incident Report lodged with the Department of Civil Aviation.' Of course I am reading it. There has not been a reply to date. I now quote from Department of Civil Aviation circular No. 18/1972:  1.1 To enable RAAF pilots to be trained in the use of specialised navigational equipment, and to maintain the standard of efficiency which would be expected of the Service at a time of crisis, it is essential that high speed, low level, cross-country exercises be carried out by military F4E (Phantom) jet aircraft operating out of Amberley m non-controlled airspace. 7.3 All aircraft are equipped with surveillance radar which permits aircraft targets to be located, but this radar is not effective at low levels due to ground returns blanketing aircraft targets.' 
I repeat the words:   . . but this radar is not effective at low levels due to ground returns blanketing aircraft targets. 
The circular continues: 
Crew visability is classified as excellent. 
I now quote paragraph S.l which reads:  5.1 F4E aircraft have communications capability on Ultra High Frequency only and, as Departmental FS units have no Ultra High Frequency outlets, alternative means of enabling aircraft "in-flight" reports to be passed to the responsible FS unit, have had to be devised.' 
I also quote from notice to airmen issued by the Department of Civil Aviation No. 14/1972 which is headed 'Flight Information Service' and reads as follows: 
A flight information service to IFR category aircraft will be provided. These military aircraft are Ultra High Frequency-equipped and cannot communicate on FS frequencies. For FS purposes, they will be classified 'No Radio' and therefore, traffic information will be based on the flight plan submitted by the aircraft and its ATD. 
These documents sum up the danger, and I request the Minister for Civil Aviation, the Minister representing him in this place, the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  to confer urgently on the situation which exists and immediately to implement a ban on the RAAF exercises in this busy air corridor. There is the rest of an empty continent in which to practise. The present risks are unnecessary and must be ended before disaster results. I have documented the case. As a matter of fact, I have brought into the chamber also the relevant flight plans and the maps which show precisely the military jet routes that are followed and also the civil routes which are being put in jeopardy in this way. I intend to hand these documents to the Minister and I ask that urgent action be taken because of the danger. 
I have a gentle proposition to put before the House, but before I do so let me say that I do not intend to follow the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in his late night fishing expendition in search of smelly red herrings. Like Queen Victoria, I do not think the House is amused. I would like to add to the valedictory in one of the languages spoken by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  He boasts 4 of them - English, Irish, Chinese and Italian. To all of those who are retiring let me say in one of the right honourable member's languages apart from English: 'Buona fortuna. Lunga vita e prosperita'. 
As a gentle postscript to the adjournment debate tonight I want to refer, on behalf of 12,249 Australian children, to a petition to the Government which they have written and prepared with great skill and dedication. I would like the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  to look at it when it is presented by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy).  These children have written and asked that the television programmes that are offered to them in our country should be suitable for them and should be Australian in content, so that they are not chained to the watching of overseas programmes of doubtful standard. Out of a total of 400 viewing hours every week, 40 channels in Australia are screening only 16 hours of locally produced children's material. As can be seen from the lists of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, most of the channels are operating their quota quickies in obscure time slots. 
But 12,249 Australian children have responded to one of the programmes, 'Ad venture Island'. They said: These are the things that we Australian children like to see. They will help us along in our formative years'. A small committee comprising the honourable member for Bendigo,  Mr Race  Matthews who was formerly on the staff of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and me, got together the views of a large number of children. These letters - these original documents - from more than 12,000 children are a testimony to their native talents and their native abilities which will be extirpated as far as Australia is concerned if the present trends in television are maintained. The honourable member for Bendigo will present tonight in his argument to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  the results of a great deal of native' talent. I would hope that because of the children's pleas, not because of the plea of the committee of 3 to which I referred, there might be second thoughts about a further step in extirpating Australian television. I hope that the Minister will look at the letters and drawings and will enjoy them. They are well done. In the dying hours of this Parliament I hope that the voices of 12,000 Australian children will be heard. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has an application been received- from the New South Wales Government for Commonwealth assistance for the construction of (he Windamere Dam; if so, has it been approved. 
If the application has not been approved, is it under consideration. 
If Ihe application has been refused, what were the grounds for refusal. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many veterans of (a) the Boer War and (b) World War I are still alive. 
What would be the cost of 'extending repatriation benefits to all survivors. 
Does the Government regard , this figure as beyond its resources. 
If not, will it extend repatriation benefits to all survivors. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What sum, to date, has Australia contributed to the aid of Pakistani refugees from: (a) Government sources and (b) non-government sources. 
What proportions of these financial contributions have been utilised in (a) transport charges, (b) administrative costs, and (c) delivering supplies to the refugees. 
asked the Minister for Primary industry, upon notice: 
What was the amount of Commonwealth bounty paid to each cheese factory in Australia in each of the 10 financial years ending 1971/72. 
What was the amount of levy for research and promotion collected from each cheese factory in each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What are the enrolment fees for children attending pre-school centres in the Australian Capital Territory covering the age groups 3 years and 4 years. 
Will he undertake a comparison with the charges at Narrandera pre-school kindergarten for the children of the 24 families contributing to the kindergarden. 
What plans has he to equalise the financial contributions between the A.C.T. and Narrandera to enable the 24 families with a 4-year-old already attending to send them to further sessions and to assist the 11 families who wish to send 3-year-olds but are precluded from so doing by the cost. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Government refuse requests for assistance for drought relief made by the New South Wales Government on 7th March 1971, 8th July 1971, 9th November 1971 and 5th July 1972. 
Did the Premier of New South Wales address  a  further letter to him on this subject on 7th August 1972; if so, has he replied and in what terms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many medical graduates from Australian universities were there in each of the last 10 years, and what percentages of them were (a) male and (b) female graduates for each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has he received reports from the New South Wales and Victorian Departments of Agriculture indicating the scope of current plague locust infestations in those States. &lt;2) If not, will he call for reports urgently. 
Will he also confer with the 2 State Ministers to ensure that all possible assistance is offered to the States to contain current outbreaks which are causing widespread concern in southern New South Wales and northern Victoria. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will be confer urgently with the Ministers for Agriculture in New South Wales and Victoria to ensure optimum combined operations against plague locust outbreaks in the Murray and Murrumbidgee Valleys. 
Has help been, sought from the Commonwealth, if so, what help has been given. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that foreign interests now control 87 per cent of the Northwest Shelf gas field; if not, what is the percentage now under foreign control. 
Has 13 per cent of the Australian equity been lost in the last year through the purchase of shares in Woodside-Burmah Oil N.L. 
Will he list the overseas interests and the percentage control that they exercise over this asset. 
ls it a fact that this gas field is outside the 12-mile limit and that Australia has no national legislation on offshore resources; if so, can the Commonwealth Government exercise any effective control or must this be exercised by Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say how many (a) flour mills, (b) stock feed mills, and (c) bakeries are now owned and/or controlled by overseas interests in Australia, following the acquisition by the South American firm of Bunge of a majority interest in Wise Brothers controlling 17 bakeries, 4 flour mills and 1 stock feed mill. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Did Commonwealth aid for technical education amount to $llm in 1971-72 compared with $160m for universities and colleges of advanced education. 
If so, does he regard this allocation of funds as equitable and satisfactory in view of the fact that there are 400,000 students in technical colleges compared with 170,000 in universities and colleges of advanced education; if not, what forward proposals have been formulated to bring  a  better balance to the allocations. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture that it is proposed to carry out surveys of the cattle population in the New South Wales areas adjoining Victoria in respect of tuberculosis and brucellosis, that the survey results would be used to determine whether quarantine areas would need to be declared in respect of one or both diseases, but that unfortunately at this point it is unlikely that sufficient funds would be available to enable such surveys to be undertaken in the near future. 
If so, will he confer urgently with the Minister with a view to remedying this serious deficiency. 
If not, will he take steps to confer with the Minister to acquaint himself of the facts of the situation with a view to ensuring that these vital surveys proceed as a matter of urgency. 
It is proposed that in the new oath the words 'renouncing all other allegiances' be dropped because they have no legal effect. They cause emotional disturbance to people who are required to mouth them in a meaningless way because they have no legal effect. Therefore it is proposed in future not to impose something which is empty and yet emotionally harmful on prospective new citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia. So the words will be dropped if the present proposals are generally accepted, as I hope they will be. 
It is true that many assessments have been made by various agencies of what would be the desirable or optimum population of Australia. I have heard estimates ranging from 20 million to 30 million to 50 million to 100 million people. I have also heard it suggested that we should try to keep our population at exactly its present level, which would impose considerable restraints on those honourable members who are still reasonably fertile. The question posed by the honourable member is one that has real significance because obviously if we are to have long term objectives for the nation we must have some idea of our targets for the future in relation to the size, structure and distribution of the Australian population. There has been under way for some time - and I acknowledge that - a general population investigation and study by a team headed by Professor Borrie of the Australian National University. This study is the most comprehensive that has ever been attempted. It was already under way when I took office. I have conferred with Professor Borrie and asked him as far as possible to speed up the completion of his report so that we can have the raw material for decision making in the future. We have not got it at the present time. I hope we will get it by perhaps June 1974. It might be just as well to acknowledge at this stage that a full and definitive reply will be made to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - I think I am right in using that title - who has placed a very commendable question on the notice paper about the survey. I will be delighted to answer it in full. But that is the state of affairs at the moment. The inquiry is under way. I have asked that it be accelerated. I hope that its findings will be available midway through next year and I anticipate that it will give us the raw material for decision making about the future size of the population of Australia. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill which I now introduce to the House is designed to make changes to the Migration Act which are necessary as part of the Government's policy to remove all forms of racial discrimination. The effect of the current legislation may be summarised as follows: 
An Aboriginal who is subject to any control, disability or restriction under the laws of the State or Territory in which he resides requires a permit to leave Australia; 
the Minister for Immigration nevertheless has power to make an order declaring that a particular Aboriginal does not require a permit to leave Australia even though he is subject to control; and 
it is an offence to help an Aboriginal to whom the section applies to leave Australia without a permit (penalty $1,000 or 6 months' imprisonment); and carrier companies must not 'without reasonable excuse' permit such an Aboriginal to leave Australia in their ships or aircraft (penalty $1,000). 
Controls on Aborigines as such have now been lifted in all States and in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. With a view to ratification of the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination it is necessary that this legislative provision, which is discriminatory on racial grounds, be removed. 
In order to implement the changes referred to, repeal of section 64 of the Migration Act is necessary. The other amendments are purely drafting amendments consequential upon the repeal of section 64 of the Act. The action of the Government in making the repeal of these discriminatory provisions one of its first legislative acts is a token of our determination to banish racial discrimination within our community and is also a step towards building on equal terms the family of the nation in citizenship. It is our unequivocal view that there should be no distinctions between citizens before the law. This is one of the key steps to achieve that position. This repeal is also a recognition that such restrictive provisions on the national statute book constitute an affront to the Aboriginal people of the nation now emerging to new dignity and progress. It will also at long last enable us to ratify the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
I share the honourable member's concern at the delays to which he has referred. In fact, only last Friday I received, from a European country, a telephone call which indicated that a grandmother, who was aged 97, died while awaiting approval to visit Australia to see her grandchildren. She had been trying to come for some half a year. The rules governing the issue of visas to members of families in the past have caused continuing hardship. I am pleased to advise the honourable members that these rules have been changed and where there is a desire for a visit by a member of the family, particularly parents and grandparents who want to come to see their children or their grandchildren in Australia, the application will be dealt with not in 6 months or 9 months but in a matter of delays - I mean in a matter of days. As you can see from my slip of the tongue,  Mr Speaker,  I am almost stuck with the procedures of the past, but I am trying to change them as rapidly as I can. This has been a matter of concern for a very long time. I am happy to say that the procedures have been changed and that the sorts of incidents which have occurred in the past will not occur in the future. 
 I  have had some telegram complaints from inner suburban school teachers in Melbourne stating the problem very much in the terms that were put forward in the honourable member's question. I might say that  I  am very concerned at the reports which have been received. At the present time some  35,000  migrant children are receiving special assistance and special counselling. We would hope that this year there will be  1,000  teachers, financed from Commonwealth sources, to give assistance in this sphere of specific counselling and specific help in schools where there is a heavy concentration of migrants. The complaints which have been put forward by the honourable member have, as  I  said, also reached me by telegram.  I  have been informed that a fully detailed submission will be forthcoming from these schools and when it is received  I  can promise the honourable member that it will receive urgent attention and  I  hope that we will be able to meet the deficiency to which he has referred. 
Some confusion on this question has existed for some time. Since 1949, Australian citizenship has not been granted automatically to settlers from the United Kingdom or from any one of the other 30 countries which make. up the Commonwealth of Nations. This change was made some 24 years ago under rules that were initiated at that time by the British Government. So, at no time for the past 24 years has Australian citizenship been granted automatically to these people. Conversely, Australian citizens migrating to the United Kingdom have not been granted automatically citizenship of Great Britain and Northern Ireland at any time in the period since the enactment of those laws in 1949. Confusion has existed in this respect. I hope that we will be able to end that confusion by giving to new settlers, particularly before they leave to come to Australia, proper counselling and proper guidance so that they may know exactly what their status is. My hope is that all who come will be embraced in the Australian family of the nation in citizenship. 
I have not heard that there has been any difficulty in arranging postings for officers of the Department of Immigration on that score. I would not have thought that brightness in dress was a disqualification for either this Parliament or the Department. I will certainly look into the matter and let the honourable member have a reply. 
The honourable member for Casey raised this question earlier this week and I gave him an undertaking that I would call for an urgent report on the situation in Melbourne. I have seen the report to which the honourable member refers and which states that the State Director took the view that until general teaching facilities had reached a standard he wished them to reach no action would be taken in relation to migrant education. If this report is correct the State Director has a very strange attitude because in some classes 75 per cent of the pupils are, in fact, migrant children. I have been advised also that in one case there has been such concern about migrant education that a teacher has given his services without pay for some time in order to help the children. This obviously must give us all a reason for really great concern. 
I cannot understand the philosophy which says that, although a class of 75 per cent migrant children needs to be looked after, until the general staffing is adequate the children will just sit. This is an unreasonable attitude and I hope that it is not the official view of the Victorian Department of Education. Representations have been made not only by the honourable member for Casey but also by the Victorian Council of Churches, the Victorian Federation of Mothers Clubs and many people in the community and I share their concern. I hope that the report today, perhaps, will indicate that there is a hope of ending the situation quickly. It must be ended because otherwise children literally will be doing nothing. This was the whole purpose of the Commonwealth entering this sphere. I hope that this action has the support of all sides of the Parliament and that there will be a special effort to help migrant children. 
The honourable member suggested that perhaps the Commonwealth should have some sort of special task force to be applied in particular areas where no proper action is being taken. That situation could be considered if the States said: 'We are not interested in migrant education. We do not want to cooperate. We do not want to help'. If any State says that, the Commonwealth will have to consider moves along the lines of giving special assistance directly from the Commonwealth. I would hope that that situation does not and will not appertain. I share the honourable member's concern and I will see whether today I can obtain the urgent report I called for and initiate action to resolve the problem of migrant education in schools in Melbourne. 
in reply - In closing this brief debate on this measure, I express my appreciation first to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  for his words of congratulation and also his passionate attachment, as on all occasions, to equal rights for all of our citizens. 1 also express my appreciation to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who spoke on behalf of the Opposition tonight, for his support and the support of the Opposition for this measure. 
I feel that this is an historic occasion in the annals of our national Parliament. We have had a Federation and a national Parliament - an embryo nation, I suppose - since 1901, that is, 72 years. I hope that in a few minutes we will pass through all stages this Bill, the provisions of which when enacted will wipe from the national statute book the last piece of racial discrimination that exists in our national laws. This is an achievement and I feel that all members of this national Parliament tonight can take some pride in the fact that we are unanimous about this measure. 1 remind the House that section 64 of the Migration Act is the last remaining provision that can be described as discriminatory on racial grounds. This legislation also enables us as a nation to go to the United Nations - the supreme international forum - with a view to ratifying the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. We have to pass this legislation to enable that convention to be ratified. 1 might say that when the Australian representatives rise at the United Nations to vote and indicate our ratification they can be fortified by the fact that this decision was unanimous. I take considerable pride as an Australian in the fact that the national Parliament is unanimous tonight. I say on behalf of the Government that on this night of 13th March the important point is that we have excised the last of these discriminations and also we have. I think, on both sides of the Parliament a common dedication which we should enshrine tonight in large letters whenever Australia is being discussed and wherever its attitudes are being debated, because I noted that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said tonight - I hope he will again signify his agreement - that no law should be discriminatory. I welcome that because it is the intention of the Government to ensure that all Australian citizens will be equal in all ways before Australian law. This Bill is a token of our dedication in that direction and of the endeavours that will be pursued in this session of the Parliament to ensure that there will be no discrimination between citizens; that there will be one citizenship; that there will be one criterion; that there will be one allegiance. It is for this reason that I can take particular satisfaction tonight in the unanimity of the Parliament. 
Reference has been made to the fact that the Aboriginal people in 1910 perhaps were viewed paternalistically. I think that the sin of paternalism has continued a long way past 1910. It has continued right up to the present time but it is nice to know that in this national forum it has been rejected. There is nothing worse outside of genocide than the gentle easing out of people by paternalism. It may take a bit longer but they die anyway. Tonight the Aboriginal people, emerging with a new pride and a new independence, may take satisfaction from the fact that this last piece of discrimination on the national statute book has been removed. My friend and colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has referred to the States. He said that he is not satisfied that in a State such as Queensland this position appertains. That is another matter for another time. It was as well to mention it but as far as the national statute book is concerned the slate has been wiped clean. We can now go to the world forum with a clear conscience and a clear statute book. I think it is probably not a bad idea to remind ourselves tonight that on the birthday of this nation - on 26th January 1788 - 1,000 migrants arrived in this country and on that day all Australians were black. The first migrants were of assorted colours and not terribly well selected. 
My friend has said, by some of the best judges. That is possible. But since that time there have been many changes in the state of the nation and its composition. As far as this Government is concerned, one thing that we are absolutely dedicated to from now on is the complete equality of citizens in our country. 
This measure is a token of our endeavour to wipe out all distinction between citizens before the law and is one of the key steps to achieve that position. I did not quite hear the interjection made a moment ago by the Leader of the Australian Country Party but I would hope that on this historic night he would be in agreement with the principle that has been enunciated by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. If there is any dispute perhaps they can confer and let us know the end result of their deliberations. 
There is no dispute. I am very glad to have the unanimity confirmed. I want to be quite clear and definite on this matter. I hope, following the remarks that were made earlier on behalf of the Opposition, that this measure has the unanimous support of the national Parliament. I think it is important to have it. I hope that on this day, 13th March, if we vote on the motion that the Bill be read a third time, we will do so unanimously. Then we can go forward from this House, each of us in our respective political parties, and be a little bit prouder of the nation of which we are a part because we have done one small thing to eliminate a hangover from the colonial past. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is both impractical and undesirable to obtain and publish these private and personal details which could be harmful to individuals without serving a useful purpose. 
I address myself to the second part of the honourable member's question. He has raised a query about crime in the community generally and has referred to the concern of many people who have come here since the war - there have been 3 million of them - and who for some peculiar reason still have the title of 'immigrant' in many cases. I find that a bit anachronistic. We should be talking about Australians. The great majority of people who have come here since World War II are exemplary citizens. If one analyses crime statistics one will find that the people who have come here since the war, in all their categories and nationalities, have a lower rate of criminality than those who were born here or who were here before World War II. Those are the statistics and that is the position. I am pleased to say that, because it is a tribute to the overwhelming success of a major national enterprise which has involved 3 million people coming here since World War IT. 
At the same time the honourable member has expressed just and right concern about violence that has erupted in his city of Sydney and in Brisbane. In relation to the events in Brisbane, I understand that these matters are at present before the courts. 
by leave - I table a progress report by the Immigration Advisory Council on its inquiry into the departure of settlers from Australia. In tabling this report I wish to express my appreciation to the distinguished members of the Council's Committee on Social Patterns, which is carrying out the inquiry. Its members are: 
Professor Zubrzycki, Head of the Department of Sociology at the Australian National University, who is the  chairman  of the Committee; Miss Green,  Chairman  of the Australian Council of Social Service;  Mr Hawke, President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions;  Sir Arthur  Lee,  President  of the Returned Services League,  Mr Lippmann, Chairman  of the Migrant Welfare Committee of the Australian Council of Social Service; Air Marshal  Sir John  McCauley,  President  of the Good Neighbour Council of New South Wales;  Mr McRae, President  of the National Youth Council;  Mr Nicholas,  Executive Officer of the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council;  Mrs Reader,  representing the National Council of Women; and  Dr Alan  Richardson, Reader in Psychology at the University of Western Australia. 
The Committee was also most fortunate in having available to it as its consultant  Dr Charles  Price, Professorial Fellow in Demography at the Australian National University. The report was presented to my predecessor towards the end of the last Parliament. It has not been published pending presentation to the Parliament. Though the Committee has yet to complete its inquiries, I believe that its findings to date are already of such importance that they warrant the closest consideration. The Committee estimates that the rate of settler loss in Australia lies between 21 per cent and 24 per cent. This estimate is related to arrival and departure movement over the 6 years to 30th June 1972. 
In de-fining the level of settler departures, the Committee adopted the concept of 'settler loss' as providing the most meaningful indicator of the proportion of migrants who leave Australia permanently. This concept takes into account various factors which are not covered by a simple measure of departures, including those who return to Australia as second time migrants and those who enter as visitors and obtain a change of status. The Committee found that there are many factors influencing departure, some of which may relate to the general economic and social structure not only in the receiving country, which is Australia, but also in the principal source countries. Others are of a personal nature, and relate to the particular needs of individual migrants. Some return because of unforeseen events in the country of origin, such as illness in the family. Others leave because of difficulties encountered in Australia. 
In addition to coming to certain interim conclusions in relation to the recommendations of the previous inquiry, the Committee has been concerned to suggest remedial action where new factors leading to departure can be readily identified. It has arranged for a number of studies to provide it with evidence about the importance of individual reasons for departure. The Immigration Advisory Council will be making its final report after these researches into the causes of settler departures have been completed. This, J understand, is likely to be in July this year. The report recommends that there should be-   a positive and continuing campaign to inculcate in the present and future generations, a feeling of national pride in the achievements of Australians of many national origins in all fields of human endeavour. 
It points out that -  those who arrive in this country as settlers would then be encouraged in even greater numbers to remain to share in the nation's destiny, 
I fully support these remarks and emphasise that only when we have fully accepted all migrants into the Australian family, as citizens with equal ranking in all respects, will this desirable goal be achieved. To the extent that the departure rate can be reduced by improved selection procedures and through greater attention to the settlement problems of migrants, no effort will be. spared by this Government. A number of initiatives have already been taken and others are being developed. 
We take even this preliminary report as a challenge to end the settler loss. We have taken action to develop fundamental improvements in the procedures for migrant selection and counselling; emergency interpreter services; citizenship centres; and special programs for migrant children in schools. My Department, the Department of Immigration - which I like to think of as the Department of Immigration, Citizenship and Settlement - is already taking action on the progress report. I am sure that honourable members, like myself, will await with interest the Committee's final report. I commend this report to all honourable members. 
This measure has come before the House of Representatives to implement a promise that was given by this Government. I remind the House, particularly members of the Opposition, that we are removing a tax or an impost on an industry which the industry resisted in every way possible which impost was actually put on by the members of the present Opposition when they were in government. They had the power and they imposed it. What we have heard tonight has been an incredible alibi by 2 ex- ministers of the previous Government which imposed this measure. 
Let us note what these honourable members said about this measure tonight in trying to cover up their sins of omission and commission. If there were a prize for red herrings dipped in sour wine from sour grapes, the honourable members opposite who spoke tonight deserve that prize. The honourable members for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and Barker  (Dr Forbes)  said that the removal of the wine tax was a shabby political trick. These were the people who represented the industry which they themselves hurt by the actions of their government. They defied every section of the industry. They ignored the advice that was tendered to them by their own advisers. They ignored every plea that was made in this Parliament by members of the then Opposition who now are in Government. We were ignored and ridiculed and, of course, the honourable member for Barker then sat monumentally silent. But tonight he comes in like a roaring lion to criticise an action of this Government to fulfil the wishes of an industry that he represents. He ignored every appeal that was made by this industry and yet he came in to the chamber tonight, having ignored the Australian Wine Board, the Federal Grape Growers Council and the members of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which gave him and his government expert advice. 
The former Government, of course, recognising that it had created difficulties in the industry and succumbing to the pressure of the then Opposition, decided to halve the excise. It could not quite find it in its heart to set the entire excise to one side because that would have been an admission that the Government of the day had been wrong in the first place. Honourable members opposite know very well tonight that they were wrong and all of this humbug - that is what it is; absolute humbug - that they have been trotting out for the last hour is to disguise the fact that they made a mistake and that they were guilty. Honourable members opposite have come into this chamber not to oppose this Bill; they are not going to follow through their criticism of what they have been pleased to call a shabby political trick. They will sit quietly and accept the benefits conferred by the Government on the industries they claim to represent. That is what they will do. 1 think it is worth while analysing some of the comments that were made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  He said that this tax was not a very important one. When he said that, of course, he went back on every piece of advice that had been tendered by the industry and by the former Government's own experts at that time. He said that it did not yield very much in revenue. He sounded like members of the 
Opposition of last year who were telling him that in a Budget of $ 10,000m the miserable amount of money that was represented by this tax did not make very much difference to the revenues of the Commonwealth but made a great deal of difference to the viability of an industry which, up to that time, was not in trouble. But the then Government imposed the tax and the industry was in trouble. 
The Government is being criticised tonight for listening to the voices of the industry. Of course it listened to them and it did what it was requested to do and as it agreed to do. That was the honourable course the Government took. It took it quickly and is implementing it in the Parliament tonight. 
It has been suggested, of course, that there are other problems to be tackled in the industry but it has also been suggested that we should ignore the fact that the last Government, by its action, opened the doors to price racketeers. There has been no mention of them tonight by Opposition members. Presumably they approve of price racketeering and yet one of the most distinguished wine makers in our country went to one of these places, sat down and ordered a bottle of his own product and was charged 3) times its cost. He was indignant and protested. He said that the then Government should look at the situation. I might say that the present Government will do so. It has organs to have a look at these price racketeers. It will have a prices justification tribunal. It will have a select committee on prices and will be looking carefully at price racketeers in the future. Perhaps we will hurt the friends of Opposition members who have not made any criticisms at all of advantage being taken of an industry and a product. 
I remind honourable members opposite that it was members of the present Government in the House of Representatives who constantly raised this matter in the Parliament and as long ago as 1970, when the impost was first introduced. We opposed it and we voted against it on every single occasion that we had the opportunity to do so and we presented evidence in detail. It is with great pride that members of the Government who are assembled here can come forward and say: 'This is our measure - a measure that is wanted by the industry'. It is also common sense in relation to the industry's needs. We have no need to apologise for our action as does the honourable member for Barker  (Dr  Forbes)  who retreats in disorder, perhaps to pick up his prize as the herring stewed in sour grapes. 
The honourable member for Wimmera interjects the voice of the countryside; the man who voted 3 times for an impost on his own fellow primary producers. He is an historical hangover of a defeated and discredited government. I might say that when one heard the intemperance of the language used by the former ministers one could appreciate that what they were trying to do was to find an alibi for their own actions. I seem to recall a reference to the fact that the industry has other problems. Of course the industry has other problems, but they were stimulated by the actions of the previous Government, now the Opposition. I sum up by saying that honourable members on this side of the House have a clear conscience in this matter. We have heeded the voice of an industry that was in trouble. We have heeded the common sense of the people who had advised the previous Government and who now advise us. They said to the previous Government: 'Do not do it', but it did it and the only alibi given by the honourable member for New England was that the brewers were suffering the poor suffering brewers. That is a very interesting new axis that we are hearing about from the present Opposition and I look forward to hearing more of it in the future. 
It is with pride that I say on behalf of all supporters of the Government who fought this impost that one of the first measures we, as a Government, were pledged to bring in was to do away with the tax. I am delighted to have the opportunity on behalf of the people I represent in Riverina the largest wine district in New South Wales of supporting the Bill with great enthusiasm. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has just resumed his seat on a note of high dudgeon. He talked about respect for honourable members and other people. Before I come to the subject on which I rose to speak I want to say a few words in defence of  Mr Norman  Foster, a former colleague of ours who served with distinction in this Parliament and was honourably defeated at the last election. I might say that he was not given an appointment in the way that defeated members of the Liberal Party have been given appointments. He served his country with more distinction than most other members I know. He was not appointed as an ambassador at 3 times his present salary, or as an administrator or to some such position. He is serving in a very humble but dedicated capacity and I am sure that he will do a fine job for his country in peace as he did in war and as he did in this Parliament. 
Not as much as your people appointed to high positions. I have no quarrel with that, but I would like a little consistency from honourable members opposite, remembering their record of patronage over almost 24 years. This morning the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  in a personal explanation claimed to have been misrepresented in regard to statements associated with his handling of payments to canning fruit growers in my electorate of Riverina in New South Wales who supplied last year the Leeton Co-operative Cannery.' I sent a message to the honourable member for New England and gave him just as much notice as he gave me this morning but I received in reply a rather cryptic note which stated:  'Mr Sinclair  has gone home'. I wish him well. 
The burden of the honourable member's complaint was that the honourable member for Riverina and the growers have misunderstood, or more specifically misrepresented, what he had said and what he had done as Minister for Primary Industry. I think it is important that the background to the situation be known. The last Government made certain pledges to pay canning fruit growers who were not paid for fruit delivered in the 1972 fruit season. In November last year certain arrangements were entered into by the New South Wales Government, the Leeton Cooperative Cannery and the Federal Government regarding payments to canning fruit growers for fruit delivered in 1972. When  Mr Sinclair  was Minister for Primary Industry he wrote to me in a letter, the date of which I will not state as it might embarrass him, the following: 
In a separate letter of today's dale 1 have referred to the steps that have been taken to provide loans to co-operative canneries through State governments to enable the canneries to accelerate their payments to growers on 1972 fruit. The Commonwealth last week provided some $781,000 to the New South Wales Government for this purpose. A condition of the loan is that all funds provided must be passed to growers in cash for their retention. 
I want to stress that these arrangements were made in November. This followed 2 effective currency revaluations in December 1971 and May 1972. For ease of reference I will call them the McMahon Government revaluations. So they had been taken previously. These particular arrangements in relation to currency were known and recognised by November when an agreement was made to pay the canning fruit growers in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area for fruit delivered in 1972, to the extent of 85 per cent. 
On taking office we found on auditing the nation's books that there was no reference to, no provision for and certainly no money to pay any compensation for the 2 McMahon Government revaluations. So the agreement in November was based on the fact that at that time no compensation was contemplated. The Federal Government was therefore concerned particularly to enter into an agreement knowing full well that there was to be no compensation. Of course, this was entered into with the 2 other parties concerned. So we have this November agreement under which the growers concerned have been paid $500,000 of the $781,000 that was mentioned before the election. The moneys paid represented 64 per cent of the value of the fruit delivered, not 85 per cent as referred to by the former Minister in letters and in previous correspondence. But the fact that I wish to make is this: The statements by the then Minister for Primary Industry before the Federal election misled the growers and indeed misled the honourable member for Riverina. The Minister said that he was misunderstood and misrepresented. 
Let me just place on record the last statement of the former Minister, made in my electorate, in which he spent, incidentally, 2 weeks during the last Federal election compaign. Let us have a look at his last words on this subject. Let us go to 4 o'clock on Thursday afternoon, 30th November - 2 days before the election. The editor of the newspaper in the Griffith district, the 'Area News', rang the then Government's campaign headquarters. He spoke to the then Minister's Press secretary. This was such an important and vital statement to all the growers concerned that the editor rang back to check the statement. The then Minister agreed with the editor of the newspaper as to the facts of the release. So let us look at what the then Minister actually said, which was so good and so important that the editor put it on the front page with a magnificent heading: Christmas bonus to canning fruit growers'. I point out that the growers concerned had received only 64 per cent of what was owing to them. We are talking here about the balance -the $281,000 - that had gone to the New South Wales Treasury and which the growers desperately wanted before Christmas. So the statement that was made on Friday 1st December, the day before the election, was a vital statement. The statement read: 
The Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, announced in Griffith this afternoon that NSW had agreed to the offer by the Commonwealth Government to help canning fruit growers of the MIA to receive some of the money owing to them for their delivery last season.  Mr Sinclair  said: 'I had a telephone conversation today with the NSW Minister for Agriculture about the basis of payment to these growers'. 
As a result of those talks agreement has been reached on the basis of payment of up to 85 per cent of the proceeds of fruit delivered to the cannery at Leeton'. 
As soon as the amounts involved have been supplied by the cannery to the State Government and then passed on to the Commonwealth payment will be made'. 
So wc have the position that the growers were promised $281,000, as were the banks, the produce stores and the local businessmen. In fact, on the strength of it they have entered into commitments that amount to about $500,000. But this amount was not paid. I might say that I was concerned that it should be paid. I took the then Minister and the then Government at their face value and I said surely to goodness they can get it paid. 
When later I mentioned this matter to the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  he said that of course that must be all red tape; get it paid. But on taking office it took us 3 months of conferring with the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry to find out what had happened. The key to it all was contained in the personal explanation made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  this morning when he referred to the reservations which made it impossible for the growers to receive $281,000. Indeed we now find that they could never have received under that agreement more than $30,000 and the indications are that under the agreement that he entered into they will receive nothing at all. 
This is quite a disaster in terms of credit. These people borrowed against the promise and the promise fell to the ground. I must say tonight that the growers were misled; the honourable member for Riverina was misled; businessmen were misled; all the banks and the entire area were misled. Perhaps it is that we are just too simple to understand the convolutions of the last Government. I want to tell the House tonight that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  have authorised me to say that they have to find help to remedy the situation and some help will be forthcoming. But let me make it clear to the House that we are all suffering from this situation. I think that the last words within 24 hours of voting condemn the then Minister and the then Government for in fact letting a situation arise in which so many people were misled to their detriment and hardship. I am glad to say that we will be doing something to retrieve the situation. 
I must say that I am surprised at the tenor of the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition because the records of my Department indicate that he when Minister for Immigration was deeply concerned at the activities of criminal elements in our community, a small group of people in the total migrant intake but nevertheless too many because one person in our community who is addicted to violence is too many in terms of the acceptance of these activities by the Australian people. When he was Minister for Immigration, the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition used strong terms and took strong action to deal with what he had evidently felt was a lack of government action and a lack of action by the appropriate government agencies to curb violence in our country. 
What I said was that the information which had been gathered by the Special Reports Branch of the Department of Immigration had been made available to me immediately on taking office. It was information which I am sure was available to the honourable member at that time although probably with the lapse of time I had further information available to me. That information caused me as much concern as it caused him. Honourable members opposite do not appear to accept what I say but, if there is any doubt about it, this information is on record and 1 am sure that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition wants to have correspondence tabled we can do it. However I want to show him the courtesy of answering his question and to tell the House the facts, which are that in relation to this matter the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition displayed his concern during the time when he was a member of the Government. The then Government did not take the action that he felt should have been taken. This Government deprecates in every way activities associated with violence irrespective of where those involved may come from and I want to say that clearly. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about the action that should be taken. The Department of Immigration has received specific continuing instructions that there shall not be considered for migration anyone who has an addiction to or a record of violence. Those instructions stand. I give the assurance to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and to the House generally that this Government will take action to see to it that migrants who come before our courts, are convicted and have records that put them within the provisions of deportation will not remain in our midst. Such action would be taken according to the due processes of law. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has raised the question of the status of migrants in our community, I place on record in this House that since World War II more than 3 million people have come to this country and the overwhelming majority of them have been great citizens. Some of them have served in this Parliament. I want also to take the opportunity to tell the House that the last time there was an inquiry made into criminality in the migrant community the figures spoke for themselves. The cases appearing before superior courts- 
I was not aware of the exact number of unemployed in the region to which the honourable member refers. The Immigration Planning Council met yesterday in Melbourne and is continuing its deliberations. It takes into account all the data made available from the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Labour and all of the representations that have been made either for or against the present level of intake. When the Immigration Planning Council has completed its deliberations a recommendation will be made to the Government. I take note of the reference that has been made by the honourable member and I will refer it to the Council so that it will be included in its deliberations. 
It is true that I visited an inner suburban school in Melbourne yesterday. I want to say that I was tremendously impressed with the spirit and the performance of the body of teachers that I met. I do not think that in any school, even in the schools in my electorate, of which I am very proud, I have ever met a body of more dedicated men and women who want to help the children of whom they are given charge. In the school I visited 81 per cent of the children come from migrant families. The teachers in that school have great difficulties. Not only are they acting as teachers, but also they give counsel to parents after working hours. This assistance, given freely in their own time, illustrates their great dedication. I was tremendously impressed. 
At the same time the question of additional teachers for migrant children was raised. The last time this was raised - I think, by the honourable member - I indicated that our target for this financial year was to have 1,000 teachers to support the teaching of English in Australian schools. I hope that that figure will rise to 1,500 this financial year. Specifically in answer to the honourable member, I must say I have seen a copy of a directive which seems to me to say: 'We will have migrant and remedial teachers but we will not take any more on the staff, and if there are general shortages we will not appoint those teachers'. That seems to me to be saying: 'We will have them but we cannot appoint them'. This is a puzzle which I have not yet resolved. 
I am afraid that in some circumstances, if the Department of Immigration makes funds available to some of these inner city schools for the teaching of English, there will be no accommodation available for this purpose. It seems to me that what we should be doing is seeking a meeting of the Victorian authorities in particular with my colleague the Federal 
Minister for Education to determine just what can be done. There is a great deal being done by teachers under impossible conditions. The children need the help and I think we must try to break the deadlock as soon as we can. 
Under this Government no Australian citizen will be deported. Australian citizenship is indivisible in our eyes and you do not deport citizens - otherwise some of us might be on our way. That is the answer to the first part of the honourable member's question. Secondly, the honourable member for Prospect very properly asked for an assurance that no-one would be deported from this country without due process of law. On behalf of all members of the Government, and particularly the Prime Minister, 1 give that assurance unequivocally. The third aspect of the honourable member's question related to discretion which can be exercised in relation to deportations within the process of law. I should like to say that compassion has always ruled as far as this Government is concerned and it always will. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A complete review of Immigration policies and practices, including the granting of assisted passages, is being undertaken. 
The review is being undertaken by the Department of Immigration. 
The purpose of the review is to give effect to the Labor Party's approach to Immigration, as set out in the Party's platform agreed to in 1971, and the announced objectives of the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Research work began in 1971. 
The programme of research, which is spread over the years 1971, 1972 and 1973, is proceeding on schedule. In addition, a series of public hearings is now to be held in all States, in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. 
The report is expected to be completed by June 1974. 
The agreement originally entered into regarding the terms of reference, financing and programming of these studies did not provide for a progress report After taking over the portfolio of Immigration I discussed the feasibility of a progress report with Professor Borrie: but decided against it on the grounds that preparation of a progress report would delay completion of the overall project. 
I have received copies of working papers relating to the studies. 
My public statements in no way anticipated the findings which may flow from the studies and the evidence on which those findings will be based. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The decision to permit 5 members of the Rhodesian Girls Brigade to transit Australia en route to New Zealand without an overnight stay was taken in November 1972 in accordance with policy relating to U.N. Security Council Resolutions concerning travel of Rhodesians. 
I approved an overnight stopover for them upon their return from New Zealand so that their group concession flight arrangements could be completed and to make it possible for two members of the group to visit relatives in Sydney. 
Migrants: Appeals agains Rejection of Entry  (Question No. 102) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Those persons who appeal against their rejection for entry will have their cases fully considered. While this procedure has been followed in the past, the criteria on which appeals will now be determined have changed. 
The Government's policy of non-discrimination and of placing emphasis on family reunion, sponsorship, and a sincere desire to settle in Australia and become  a  member of the national family will be reflected in decisions on appeals as well as in the handling of new applications. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation: Staff  (Question No. 105) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Senior officers of my Department have consulted the National Urban and Regional Development Authority regarding the role which migration can play in furthering the development of regional centres. In addition, regional planning bodies will have the opportunity of making submissions to the National Population Enquiry, which I have authorised to hold public hearings in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan centres in all States. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The migration program for 1972-73 has been reviewed. As I announced, the level for this financial year will be 110,000. 
The 1973-74 migration program is currently under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The level of the program for 1972-73 was reduced from 140,000 to 110,000. 
The adjustments to the immigration program have taken account of changes in the level and structure of employment demand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive statistics are only available for the period from April 1971 onwards. During the period April-December 1971 inquiries were received from 33,429 people who indicated that they had professional qualifications. Inquiries totalled 32,986 during the calendar year 1972. 
Arrivals during the last 10 years under the settler statistical group professional, technical and related workers were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Assisted passage migrants who wish to settle in non-metropolitan areas have their fares paid to their final destinations. 
Senior officers of my Department have been in consultation with the National Urban and Regional Development Authority regarding the assistance which can be given, through the immigration program, to the development of regional centres and other centres outside the metropolitan areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of citizenship ceremonies in each State from 4th December 1972 to 7th March 1973 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) There has not been a meeting of Immigration Ministers since 4th December 1972. 
The last Conference of Ministers was held in Canberra on 25th February 1972 when it was decided that the Ministers should meet again on a date to be decided in the period September-November 1972. 
My predecessor later decided that the Conference should be deferred until a date early this year because of the proximity of the proposed date to the recent Elections. 
After consulting with State Ministers, I have now decided that the next Conference will be held in Brisbane on 13th April 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. However, at a meeting of the Prime Ministers of Australia and New Zealand on 22nd January 1973 it was announced conjointly that citizens of each country and citizens of other Commonwealth countries who have resident status in either Australia or New Zealand should henceforth be able to travel between Australia and New Zealand for permanent or temporary stay without passports or visas. 
See above. 
The position is that the greatest slur that has been cast on the migrant community in Australia has been cast upon it by the handful of people who have brought discredit on all of the community by their acts of violence and by their law breaking, and this is resented by the vast majority of migrants who resent being associated with people who are criminals. That is the first point I want to make. I would be at one with the honourable member in saying that there is no-one, I would hope, in this Parliament who would denigrate the overwhelming number of people that have come to this country since World War II - more than 3 million of them - and who are now an integral part and a fine part of the Australian community. I also want to make it very plain that as far as deportations are concerned each case is viewed and dealt with on its merits. It is not a casual procedure. It is not a procedure, I might say, that could be carried out at the behest of any government or any authorities outside our own country. The only decision that can be made is made by the Minister for Immigration on the advice of many organs of government and we will be proceeding with justice and compassion. I can assure the House of that. 
The measure before the Parliament concerns democracy. In case some of the honourable members who are at present in this place and some of those who have taken part in this debate have forgotten I remind them that there is a very good definition of democracy which I should revive for the occasion. It was a definition by Abraham Lincoln, not unknown in our country and in our history, who defined democracy as 'government of the people by the people and for the people'. Listening to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who spoke just before the sitting was suspended for dinner, we could be forgiven for thinking that he was talking about democracy in terms of government of the majority by the minority because that seemed to be the summation of what he was saying; but then again he seemed to have a remorse of conscience once or twice during the course of his remarks and he said: Unbalanced representation is not good for the nation'. Is not that a very interesting comment coming from the Leader of the Australian Country Party which has 9 per cent of the vote? In the history of the Federation it has not had more than 10 per cent of the vote. Yet it has had 20 per cent of the Cabinet. Of course this is a very good and new definition of democracy! 
In the famous election on 2nd December 1972 which brought so many changes we found that this sterling fighter for freedom that we heard just before dinner represents the 9 per cent that has 16 per cent of the Parliament. This is indeed a new definition of democracy. If Abraham Lincoln were among us he would be bewildered. I might say that I have no doubt about which side of the Parliament he would be sitting on. But let us have a look at some of the very interesting claims that were made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. He was talking with all the magnificent arrogance of a feudal lord who has his fiefdom and does not wish anybody to interfere with it. He was talking about half of the nation as if it was his own, as if it was his private property. I know that he is a man of considerable means because the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  told us just last night that the honourable member could buy and sell us all. The thing that is worrying me is whether he is not seeking tonight to buy and sell us all once again. But let us have a look at what we are talking about. 
We are talking about the state of the Parliament; the state of the parties in the national Parliament. We are talking about 22 country members on the Government side. We are talking about 12 country members in the Liberal Party. We are talking about 20 members of the Country Party, hardly including the honourable member for Gippsland who is not really here at all. I am sorry, he is here. 
We have just listened to an address by the champion of the fruit growers, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  He raises a series of matters now that he is in Opposition, but he was remarkably silent about some of those things when his Party was in Government, lt is a little late now for the honourable member to find his political courage, particularly in relation to the fruit industries. The honourable member for Murray kindly referred to the fruit industries in my electorate. Every request of the Leeton Co-operative Cannery Ltd for this season has been met. Every request made by canneries in his electorate were met, and met under this Government. 
The honourable member for Murray referred to the matter of the payment of growers. It took 3 months to unravel the tortuous arrangements made by his Cabinet. Those arrangements were entered into by the previous Federal Government and the Government of New South Wales and they tied up funds in such a way that it was not possible to effect payment within the 2-week period. It has not been possible to effect payment even now because the Government of which the honourable member for Murray was a supporter made arrangements which deceived growers. 1 repeat that charge tonight. If the honourable member for Murray had taken an interest at the time, he would have known about that, and if he knew about it and did not say anything he was betraying the growers about whom he spoke tonight. 
I resent the situation in which I, as the member for Riverina in Opposition, was placed by the previous Government. I did not know what arrangements were entered into. In fact, those arrangements were kept from me. An elaborate pretence was made right up to within 24 hours of the election that the arrangements which had been made by the previous Administration would give growers money which the Minister and the Government at the time knew they could never receive. It took 3 months in Government to find the truth of the situation. The honourable member referred to a promise made by the Prime Minister. He said that the money would leave Canberra and would be paid. It left Canberra and was sitting in Sydney. It is still in Sydney, tied up under arrangements for which the Government supported by the honourable member was responsible. He gave an undertaking to the growers that help would be given. He said that some help would have to be given.  Senator Ken  Wriedt, the Minister for Primary Industry, is dealing with the matter at present. I hope it will not be very long before the present Minister for Primary Industry will spell out all the details in chapter and verse and will get some help for the growers who were cruelly deceived for blatant political purposes. If the honourable member was a party to that, he should be ashamed of himself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is intended that information will be sought from community organisations affiliated with the Good Neighbour Councils in the states and territories as to their involvement in this year's Australia Day celebrations. 
Each agency affiliated with each Good Neighbour Council is to be requested to describe such activities of any kind which they arranged to mark Australia Day. 

 Mr P. N. Shaw, Co-ordinator of the Good Neighbour Councils, has been asked to conduct this inquiry. 
The inquiry should be completed by 31st May 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 31st January I announced that new procedures would be introduced for the determination of applications to migrate to Australia. Under these procedures, one of the five basic requirements to be met by migrants is that they should have a sincere intention of making a permanent home in Australia, and joining the Australian family through citizenship. All overseas posts have been instructed to implement the new procedures as soon as it is administratively practicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A final assessment must await the Cost-Benefit Analysis which is being carried out by Professor J. R. Wilson. But we already know that migrants contribute proportionately more to the workforce than they do to the population supported by that workforce, that they include a substantial proportion of skilled and other key workers, that the great majority receive all their educational and vocational training prior to coming here and, therefore, at no cost to Australia and that they contribute particularly to the maintenance and development of key industries and services. 
Even the costs of migrants' assisted passages are offset, through taxation, within a short time of their arrival here. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought in (a), (b) and (c) Is not available. 
So far as (d) is concerned, detailed statisticsin the form requested are compiled and published quarterly by the Bureau of Census and Statistics  and  by the Department of Immigration. The next edition covering the quarter ending December 1972 should be available in May 1973. 
At this stage only summary statistics in respect of visitor arrivals  for  the month of December 1972 are available and these are provided in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Good Neighbour Council in each State and Territory will be encouraged to extend its affiliations with all agencies whose members and resources might provide assistance to migrants in their neighbourhoods. Such agencies not already members of Good Neighbour Councils will be encouraged to affiliate where appropriate, and those for whom such affiliation would be unconstitutional will be encouraged to cooperate with the Good Neighbour Council in specific projects. The aim will be to achieve the greatest possible voluntary involvementof members of the community in extending a spontaneous welcome to newcomers and helpful, practical advice and assistance to facilitate their successful settlement. 
(a) Financial assistance provided by the Government to the Good Neighbour Councils since 4th December 1972, comprised payments of the Third Quarter allocation of Grant-in-Aid funds to cover the period 1st January 1973 to 31st March 1973 in accordance with the 1972/73 appropriation for this purpose. The amount allocated to the 8 Good Neighbour Councils totalled $152,944. Between 4th December 1972 and 31st December 1972, the Good Neighbour Councils were utilizing funds provided on 1st September 1972 to cover the Second Quarter of the financial year. 
Since 31st January this year 1 have visited the capital city of each State to inspect my Department's branches and to confer with Good Neighbour Councils. This has afforded the opportunity for informal discussion with key members of the Good Neighbour Councils and representatives of ethnic organisations and other agencies with the aim of encouraging wider participation in the voluntary community work of assisting migrants in their settlement. Throughout the period under consideration, the Good Neighbour Councils have continued to receive the normal coordination services and technical advice as required from officers of my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">Comprehensive statistical information is maintained only of persons who arrived in Australia as visitors (long or short term) or as residents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) At the date of the honourable member's question, copies of the Progress Report on Departures, by the Immigration Advisory Council's Committee on Social Patterns, were being produced to allow me to table it in the House. I tabled the report on 13th March 1973. 
I have instructed my Department to take appropriate action in relation to the findings of the report. 
The national population inquiry has been under way for more than a year. The target date for its completion is July of next year. As part of that inquiry public hearings will be held in all States, including some country areas. The advertisements inviting submissions from individuals and interested organisations have appeared in more than 20 newspapers. I think a total of 80 advertisements has been inserted so far. I suggest that the honourable member's constituents can make written submissions, either as individuals or as part of an organisation, to the national population inquiry in Canberra. Subsequent to that the inquiry staff, headed by Professor Borrie, will be in touch with them, if necessary, to invite their appearance before the open public inquiry. I might say that the inquiry to determine the size, structure and distribution of Australian population in the future and to recommend upon these subjects, will be open to the public and the Press. 
 I second the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of confidence in the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has moved an amendment to the Prime Minister's motion and has called for a judicial inquiry. The first point upon which he hangs his request is: 'Are there any active Croatian terrorist organisations in Australia and have they been responsible for violence?' The right honourable gentleman is either playing with the House and the nation or has forgotten to confer with his colleagues, because on 3rd December 1969 his  deputy,  the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  who was then Minister for Immigration, wrote to the then Attorney-General and said: 
I feel it necessary to bring to your attention my concern at the likely serious consequences if Croat nationals in Australia are permitted to continue unchecked their terrorist activities and outrages against representatives of the Yugoslav Government and authority generally in this country. 
The honourable member went on to say: 
I have reason to believe that the terrorists are endeavouring to create the impression among Yugoslav migrants in Australia that the Croatian extremists have the support of significant sections of Australian society and even the Government. 
This is his own deputy. He continued: 
The bombing attack last week on the Yugoslav Embassy in Canberra ... the evidence of  a  deliberate attempt to fire the Immigration Offices at Barton on the evening of 1st December - 
That could not possibly have been successful because those offices are too old, too whiteant ridden and too decrepit to burn anyway the bombing of the Yugoslav Consulate-General in Sydney earlier in the year are evidence of a pattern of extremist activity which should be capable of preventive measures by the law authorities. 
This was a warning by the then Minister for Immigration to the then Attorney-General of the previous Government. The then Minister went on to say: 
Apart from this immediate issue and the inevitable involvement of human life, 1 am moreover concerned  with the likely effect upon our relations with Yugoslavia, especially in terms of our migration arrangements with that country, of continued incidents of this kind and the apparent inability of the law authorities to apprehend offenders. 
This was written by the honourable member for Flinders, the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who was at that time Minister for Immigration. He went on to say: 
The continued disquiet among the Yugoslav community generally in Australia must also have a deleterious effect upon their ability successfully to integrate in the Australian community which  I  have little doubt is the primary desire of the great majority of Yugoslavs in this country. 
That was his concern, a concern that was shared by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who was at that time Minister for Foreign Affairs and who, in a letter addressed to the then AttorneyGeneral, pointed out that over the last few years there had been a number of incidents or attacks by extremist groups. The right honourable gentleman stated:   the extremists themselves may by now have come to believe that they can act with impunity and that they can therefore, without risk to themselves, step up the level and frequency of violence. 
This is an indictment of members of the previous Government who are now on the front bench of the Opposition. I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition might very well have conferred with his own colleagues before posing this amendment. (Quorum formed). 
The Leader of the Opposition, of course, then referred to the rule of law, that is, the law of his Government which  sets oat that,  under the provisions of the Crimes Act, Australian citizens could be deported despite the fact that they held citizenship. So much for his rule of law. It was a bad law and we will change it in defence of the unity and indivisibility of Australian citizens. There is no doubt from the information now available to us, and, indeed, information which was available to the previous Government, that Australia has only narrowly missed becoming the world headquarters for a counter-revolution. There is no doubt that this situation was accepted by the previous Government, as it seems to have held the view that any revolutionary violence planned here would have been exercised outside Australia and not within it. But I make the point - and it should be remembered - that violence is like a disease. One cannot contain it at will or direct its course. 
We have had in this country - not overseas-!  70  acts of violence and we have a situation about which the Attorney-General and the Government were rightly concerned. Certainly this Government is concerned with violence from wherever it comes. We have a situation at the moment in which bombs in Sydney injured  18  people and fire bombs in Brisbane killed  15  people. Australians are concerned about this state of affairs. I might say that the concern was felt by some Ministers in the previous Government. 
To me, as Minister for Immigration, it does not matter at all what the pretext is for violence: Violence in our society must always be condemned. The man in Australia who puts aside the ballot box and reaches for the bomb leaves the ranks of the politically concerned and becomes a criminal. So the bombings of Brisbane and Sydney are both criminal acts even though they might have been carried out as the result of different motivations. The Australian hurt by a bomb does not ask whether the bomb was a right wing bomb, a left wing bomb or just a plain racketeer's bomb. He knows he is hurt and resents it. Material I am now studying covers some  415  people who  have been associated with violence. Naturalised Australians account for  195  of these. Of  51  Australian citizens who came under notice first for violence,  11  are now reported to have died in violent circumstances^  - 8  shot in Yugoslavia last year,  2  others murdered in other European countries and one murdered in Australia. Four of these Australian citizens are understood to be currently serving gaol sentences overseas for alleged involvement in violence. A further  9  have charges pending against them before the courts in Australia. Information brought to my notice concerning another  37  Australian citizens, some of whom have convictions for violence, indicates that they are implicated in criminal extremist activities. 
The Commonwealth Police has brought to the attention of my Department the names of a further  134  Australian citizens who are suspected of association with criminal extremism. Some of these have criminal convictions relating to acts of violence. I remind honourable members that Australian citizens are beyond the deportation provisions of the Migration Act. Amongst the  220  aliens under review are  9  persons who now have left Australia. Three of these are reported to be dead and  6  others are reported to be serving prison sentences overseas for alleged offences relating to criminal terrorism. Two are serving gaol sentences in Australia for serious offences. Another 17 have been charged in court for various offences and are awaiting trial. There are a further 25 aliens whose involvement in criminal extremism has been such that they are of significant interest to us. Several of them have previous convictions and information relating to them currently is under study. Information about 167 aliens indicates that they are involved in criminal extremism. These cases also are under examination. The list of 415 persons to which I have referred does not represent the total number of those whose histories in Australia are under review. I am informed that further cases are under investigation now and in due course may be referred to me for attention. 
So, I report the facts to the House. Taken together, they must give rise to deep concern. They must also give rise to the question of how more than 200 people could gain our citizenship without question - if, indeed, that was the situation. We do know from the files that there was some dispute about whether citizenship should be granted. But, be that as it may, the situation is not healthy from our point of view. The facts speak for themselves. While the previous Government was chasing elderly peasants in the hills of Calabria for voting communist 20 years ago, it certainly ignored the violence of the Right; the facts given indicate this quite clearly. The Government and the people of Australia are implacably opposed to terrorism from any source - from the Right or the Left - and the Prime Minister has made that clear. There are no exceptions to this. 
Equally we are determined that the many shall not be condemned for the actions of the few. There are in the Australian community today more than 140,000 people who were born in Yugoslavia, and the great majority of them are good, sound citizens and residents of this country. I remind the House that Yugoslavs have a long and honourable history of migration to Australia going back well over 100 years. They, even more than the community generally, have reason to condemn the acts of political terrorism which have taken place. Only a couple of days ago I received from a large Croatian organisation a statement of rejection of acts of violence from whatever source they might come. These good people are deserving of the fullest sym pathy and understanding of the Parliament of the nation. 
I should like to refer to the small minority involved in criminal or terrorist activities and those who, sharing their views, may seek to come to Australia. I want to be quite clear on this point. Under the Migration Act, the Minister for Immigration has authority to exclude from Australia any persons who are not members of the Australian community. I shall exercise that authority to the full against people who advocate or engage in acts of criminal terrorism. Officers of the Department of Immigration here and overseas are under standing instructions in this matter and I have re-emphasised those instructions. However, no migrant screening process in the world can completely guard against the possibility that a person may be recruited into this type of activity after arriving in Australia. I am particularly concerned, therefore, about those people who are already here and who attempt to recruit young men to kill and to be killed in campaigns of violence and terror. 
Under the Migration Act, I have the authority, as Minister, to order the deportation of aliens and immigrants in certain defined circumstances. But I want to make it plain that no Australian citizen can be required in any circumstances to leave his adopted country. Each case in relation to deportation can and will be looked at on its merits. I . am determined to do all in my power as Minister to keep political terrorists out of Australia and to apply the deportation provisions of the Migration Act to the fullest extent, consistent with our system of justice. The special reports branch of my Department will maintain the closest possible liaison with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Commonwealth Police and State law enforcement agencies. Any information will be brought to my notice and whatever action is necessary will be taken within the powers given to me, as Minister, by the Parliament. My Department neither has nor seeks its own police force. The special reports branch is not concerned only with offences by migrants. It is equally concerned with offences which affect the interests of migrants. When evidence of offences is obtained, the information is referred to the Commonwealth or State police for investigations and court proceedings in the usual way. Officers of this branch are neither police officers nor security officers. However, they do work closely with other agencies. 
I warn those who may contemplate acts of violence to weigh fully the consequences of their actions. I offer them this choice, on behalf of the Australian Government: Live with us in peace or leave. Australia will not tolerate them; neither will it provide a haven for them. I repeat my earlier undertaking to do everything in my power to stop any more such people entering the country and I repeat my warning to those who are already here and who embark upon acts of violence and terrorism. They will have visited upon them the full rigour of the deportation provisions of the Migration Act, within the law. There is no blame or shame attaching to the great majority for the actions of the few. Just as the full sanction of the law will be applied to stop those who engage in terrorism, so too shall we apply the full sanction of the law for the protection of the innocent. I give this pledge on behalf of the Government of Australia: I pledge myself to justice - justice to the community, to the individual concerned and to the many thousands of good people who, with faith in us and in our country, have pledged their future with ours. The Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and the Government are unanimous in this dedication. 
I rise to welcome this measure because it was one that I sought while in Opposition. I found that there was persecution, if you like, of the modest home brewer. Of course, it was in accordance with the law, but there were visits by excise officers. 
There were prosecutions. I made representations to the honourable member for Hotham when he was Minister for 
Customs and Excise. They are on file at present. I pleaded with him that action be taken. The letters are on file and I was proud to make those representations. I am particularly pleased that the Government is taking action to do something which I am sure the honourable member for Hotham wanted to do himself but in respect of which, under the weight of the Cabinet at the time, I have no doubt his voice was lost. That is all I wanted to say in relation to my own efforts. The point 1 make is that there was, in the case of the modest home brewer, the fear of a knock on the door in the middle of the night or perhaps in the early morning and his modest apparatus being the subject of very close scrutiny by the visiting officers. This, of course, would be upsetting to most fair minded members of the Parliament. 
Despite the fact that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has been riding a bicycle in two directions at once this evening - that is very difficult even under the influence of home brew - I believe that all honourable members opposite support the Government on this occasion. Of course, it has become a tactic to say: 'The Government's action is all right, except that . . .'.I do not think that there should be any qualification at all about this Bill. An honourable member is either for a tax on home brew or he is not. Let us be clear about this. I say clearly and definitely that the Government has taken the action that was sought by very many people. It has taken action which is fair. As a matter of fact, it is interesting to look at the brief on this subject and to find that the cost of home brewed beer is 7c a bottle and that the Opposition's sturdy freedom fighters for the workers seem to be defending the right of the worker not to have home brew at 7c but to buy commercial beer for 42c a bottle. It seemed to me that that was the impression that was given. 
The honourable member says that I am being careless with the truth. I have been listening to the opposition to this measure. An honourable member is either for it or against it. I suggest that the honourable member choose his words more carefully. Honourable members have been talking about the worker calling for his beer on the way home. There has not been much praise for this measure which the Government has introduced. There is such a thing as damning a thing with faint praise, and I think that is what honourable members opposite have been doing this evening. It has been a pretty poor performance. After all, if they are opposed to the Bill they should say so and vote against it. 
Some honourable members opposite have linked their remarks on this Bill with references to the wine tax. I must make passing reference to the references members of the Opposition were permitted to make. It has been suggested that there was something discriminatory in lifting a tax which had been imposed by the previous Government on the only viable and sound industry that it had left in the countryside after its recent disastrous reign. This was the wine grape industry. The wine grape industry was not in trouble until the. Government got to it. When it did, it immediately applied an excise against the advice of its own people, against the cautions of its own advisers, against the wishes of the industry, and against the advice of the Australian Wine Board. The unanimous advice to the then Government was not to impose an excise, but the Government would not take that advice and it imposed the excise. Of course, it found that there was some trouble as a result. The predictions of trouble were coming true; so the previous Government, bending a little with the wind - the wind that was blowing was a pretty critical one - halved the excise. 
I did not hear the emission of wind from the honourable member who interjected. I am quite willing to hear his interjections at any time and to deal with them on their merits. However, I must say that it is strange to have the Opposition almost pleading that there should be a raising of taxes on a beverage. This seems to mc to be the tenor of the remarks. Do Opposition members suggest that we should not have removed the wine tax? They had the opportunity to vote against that proposal when it came before the Parliament, but they did not do so. It seems to me that they are. trying to ride a bicycle in 2 directions at the one time. They should make up their minds on exactly what they want. Did the Opposition want  us  to retain the wine tax? 
Did the honourable member for Griffith say yes? If he did, I respect him for his courage in the face of common sense. I will give the honourable member the opportunity to express himself clearly. I have been listening intently to this debate and I gained the impression that the Government was being criticised for lifting the wine tax. I gained the impression that the Government was being criticised for lifting the tax on home brewed beer. If that is what the criticism amounts to, let honourable members opposite say so clearly and definitely. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Griffith will cease interjecting. 
What is incredible is that the criticisms which have been made about the wine tax have been continued. I accept the point made by the honourable member for Griffith. As a matter of fact, it was a good one. He points out that there was been an upward spiral in the cost of wine. That is so. It is because of this sort of thing that the Government is giving serious attention to prices. There will be an opportunity for the honourable member and other members of the Opposition to- 
Can I finish the sentence? 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The point of order was quite frivolous, as you have ruled, and I am surprised at the honourable member for Wimmera because normally he has an innate sense of fair play. 
No, not really. I would never have thought that of him. I am somewhat hurt this evening that, on this issue, after making his contribution and referring to all these matters including the matter of the wine tax and perhaps questioning the stand taken by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  he should take a point of order. All I can say, more in sorrow than in anger, is that he should at least be able to sit for a moment or two and listen to the facts in relation to an industry which, of course, he harmed by his vote which enabled the imposition of an excise which hurt the industry. 
Before I was interrupted I was referring to the fact that there has been an upward movement in prices and that this is a matter of grave concern to all of us who are in government. It is not only on this one matter but on a whole range of matters. There has been price racketeering in our country. In respect of beverages there has been some fancy racketeering. This is known to anyone who drops in, perhaps without being properly briefed, on some of the places, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne, which can best be described as clip joints. The prices bear very little relationship to the product and very little relationship to what the grower receives. I think it is time that we had an examination of the justice of these things. If the honourable member raises these points in a spirit of frivolity I accept them in the spirit of seriousness. 
Much has been made of this measure which seems to me to be a very fair one, a very just one and one of common sense. 1 feel that the Government stands in good light and is in good standing with the whole of the community for removing something which was obnoxious, which did not yield very much to the coffers and which was an impost on a few enterprising people who attempted to do something for themselves in the interests of their families and friends. I conclude by lifting a glass of good Riverina red not only to the wine industry but also, figuratively speaking, to the home brewers. God bless them all. The Government has done the right thing by them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 436. (b) 20.75 per cent. (2) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is a matter for my colleague, the Minister for Labour but it is obvious from recent announcements that employment opportunities are increasing. 
and (3) As I have announced, the future emphasis of immigration programmes will be on the re-union of immediate family members and sponsorship will also be given priority. National need will also be an important consideration and where recruitment has been temporarily suspended in certain categories the situation is being regularly reviewed. There is close and continuing consultation with the Department of Labour on the numbers and categories of workers that may be accepted at any particular time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I am having circulated to honourable members an explanatory memorandum concerning the effect of each clause of the Bill, in detail. I need not therefore now go into all the details but I wish to explain the main principles. 1 begin by speaking to the main part of the Bill which deals with the grant of citizenship. The guiding principle for the Government in the vitally important matter of the grant of Australian citizenship is that there should not be discrimination between different groups of settlers seeking to join the family of the nation. Wherever they were born, whatever their nationality, whatever the colour of their complexion, they should all be able to become Australian citizens under just the same conditions. If we are to maintain our great tradition that every citizen should be equal before the law, it is surely essential that everyone seeking to become a citizen, after being lawfully admitted for residence in Australia, should find they are equally treated when they try to become citizens. 
So it is that this Bill provides for all, regardless of origins, the same requirements as to residence, good character, knowledge of the language and of the rights and duties of citizenship, and intention to live here permanently. There will still however be special exemptions for humane and other reasons. The common period of residence proposed is 3 years. After this period in Australia substantial numbers of fine migrants have come to know Australia, feel settled here, want to identify themselves as members of our community and are in fact living as such without friction or problems. They should not have to wait for a longer time. People from any of the Commonwealth countries - now numbering no fewer than 31  -  have in the past been in a distinctive and in my view an anomalous position in regard to the conditions under which they could become Australian citizens. After only one year here they have been able to apply for what is called 'registration' as a citizen. If they do not seek registration they can, after 5 years here, simply notify the Department of Immigration that they want to be citizens; and they thereupon become citizens. This applies to people from the following interesting list of countries. The People's Republic of Bangladesh, Barbados, Republic of Botswana, Canada, Republic of Cyprus, Fiji, The Gambia, the Republic of Ghana, Guyana, the Republic of India, Jamaica, the Republic of Kenya, the Kingdom of Lesotho, the Republic of Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, the Republic of Nauru, New Zealand, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Sierra Leone, the Republic of Singapore, the Republic of Sri Lanka, the Kingdom of Swaziland, United Republic of Tanzania, the Kingdom of Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, the United Kingdom and Colonies, the Independent State of Western Samoa and Republic of Zambia. These countries comprise the 31 countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. 
It is a very varied and interesting list. All of these discriminatory provisions will be phased out by this Bill. To avoid any suggestion of breaking faith with people who have recently come here or who come in the year after the new Act commences, and who understood before coming that they could apply after one year, the Bill provides a transitional period of 2 years during which such people will be able to apply for citizenship after only one year's residence. But thereafter all will have to be here at least 3 years. I intend to publicise this change throughout Australia and of course people seeking to migrate to Australia will be thoroughly informed by my Department's officers. It is also obviously essential that we try our utmost to remove the general misconception on the part of many British immigrants already here that by long residence they have automatically become citizens. It has been unjust to them to leave them confused about their status. I shall be correcting this in publicity concerning the new Act during the period before and after it is proclaimed to commence. For a period of 6 months after commencement, the Bill will enable citizens of 31 Commonwealth countries which 1 have just read out, who have been here over 5 years and still do not realise the true position, to become citizens by the simple existing process of 'notification' that 1 have mentioned earlier. 
Likewise the Bill provides that the oath or affirmation of allegiance shall be taken by all, except children under 16, regardless of former nationality. This means that migrants from all the 31 Commonwealth countries will now have the same opportunity as other migrants to take part in citizenship ceremonies suitably marking the important occasion of their becoming citizens. At these ceremonies, so well known to honourable members, the community in which the new citizens live will welcome them into the community and the family of the nation. It will end a situation of active discrimination against enthusiastic Commonwealth of Nations applicants for Australian citizenship who have been denied the same welcome as has long been afforded others. 
By these means, and by all other possible means, it is the Government's wish to ensure that our migrants from Commonwealth countries are no longer ignored or left in the mistaken belief that they acquire our citizenship automatically and that the rest of the Australian community attaches no importance to their becoming citizens. We do attach great importance to the conferment of our citizenship. We intend to demonstrate that beyond any shadow of doubt, and warmly welcome all migrants without distinction. It is important to end the confusion which has been permitted to continue since the Citizenship Act of 1 949 and the use of terminology which has given many Australians the mistaken impression they are not only Australian citizens but also citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This has not been the case for 24 years yet the past Government permitted Australians to remain confused on this point. The Citizenship Acts of 1949 ended the common citizenship between the colonies of the once British Empire, the then British Commonwealth and now Commonwealth of Nations. Australians have not been nor had the status of British citizens since 1949. This Bill has not changed that. It recognises it. Australian citizens have, however, the additional right and description of possessing the common nationality of the Commonwealth of Nations, called in some 
Commonwealth countries Commonwealth citizenship and in Australia for convenience, because we in Australia use the term 'Commonwealth' ourselves, as British. At this point let me make it perfectly clear that the Bill does not change the situation whereby citizens of the 31 Commonwealth countries, whether they become Australian citizens or not, continue to have the status of British or Commonwealth of Nations subjects and as such have privileges such as the vote and eligibility to be appointed to public services under Acts of Parliament not administered by me. 
There are 2 notable changes in the form of the oath or affirmation of allegiance. The first is the omission of the renunciation of other allegiance. That renunciation has been a cause of great emotional misgivings amongst people who want to become Australians. It has served no legal purpose at all because loss or retention of former citizenship depends entirely on the law of the person's former homeland. A Greek citizen remains a Greek under Greek law and an American ceases to be an American under American law upon their becoming Australians, quite irrespective of whether they say at our citizenship ceremonies that they renounce Greek or American citizenship. And so I put it to the House that it is both the humane and the sane course to drop these distressing and ineffectual words about renunciation. 
The second feature of the oath or affirmation is that allegiance is to be sworn to the Constitution of Australia. Specific mention of the Queen is not made, but of course allegiance to our Constitution fully embraces allegiance to the Throne. All that is sought by this change is to clarify the real position for those candidates for our citizenship who find it hard to understand why they are to swear allegiance to a monarch they have understood to be primarily Queen of another country where they have never lived and never intend to live. Again this seeks to remove a condition of granting citizenship that burdened some of our migrants more than others. It also obviates the confusion which exists in law between the Queen of Australia and the Queen of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland. I also propose administratively to replace the term 'naturalization ceremony' with 'citizenship ceremony'. The word 'naturalization' is one which does not come easily to the tongue. It is clumsy and has, for many, connotations totally unconnected with citizenship. For all these reasons we favour and will use in future 'citizenship ceremony'. 
Turning from the main provisions concerning grant of citizenship, another change achieved by the Bill is to bring up to date the list of Commonwealth countries whose citizens have the status of British subject under the Citizenship Act. South Africa and Pakistan have ceased to be members of the Commonwealth and they are accordingly omitted. It is, however, recognised that citizens of these countries who have settled in Australia should be able to keep their present status under our law for a transitional period of 2 years during which they will be encouraged to become Australian citizens. Otherwise, for example, a person in the Public Service might suddenly find he can no longer lawfully retain his appointment because the Public Service Act allows permanent appointment only of people who have the status of British subjects. The Bill also proposes, in line with the age qualification for voting, that a person shall be deemed to be of full age for citizenship purposes when he has reached 18 years of age. 
It is just 25 years since the first Australian Minister for Immigration, now the Right Honourable Arthur Calwell, introduced into this House, with great and justifiable pride, a Bill which for the first time created in law the status of Australian citizen. What was then a novel status in law has, of course, become the proud title of the people of a nation, which has continued to grow not only in mere numbers but in recognition of its individual and quite separate role in the world. The Government has dedicated itself to enhancing still further the significance and repute of the title Australian citizen'; and in this Bill we ask this House to endorse a charter for the grant of that title, without discrimination, to all of our settlers who seek it and are worthy of it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
Speaking personally, I can only say to the honourable member that I made one small contribution in one daughter, but I suppose I could say to the honourable member, who has 8 children - I think 5 boys and 3 girls - 'Well, I did my part, you seem to have contributed to the imbalance'. I saw a newspaper article which indicated that there was a surplus of single males over single, females in the 20 to 24-year age group. The newspaper article stated that there were 40,000 more males in that age group. I was naturally interested to see whether the report was correct. The Commonwealth Statistician indicates that there are 164,000 more single males than single females in the 20 to 24-year age group. I would not like honourable members to be concerned about that too much. 
The statistics also show that males tend to marry at an older age than females and that there is not a significant imbalance of the sexes in general. However in some ethnic groups there is an imbalance. I might say that I have asked the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council to give continuing attention to this matter. The last occasion on which it considered the problem was in 1969. We. certainly hope to use the immigration program to help correct the temporary imbalances in one or two groups. It is also interesting, I think, as a male in a male assembly, to note that for every 105 males born there are 100 females born, but the death rate among males is much higher than among females. In fact, by the time, males reach the age of 23 to 24 they still outnumber females though more of them die off. I want to assure the honourable member and the House that we will certainly use the immigration program to the best extent that we can to correct the imbalances which exist in one or two ethnic groups. 
It is true that in one case in Sydney there has been a reduction in bilingual broadcasting. It is true also that I have received some protests, but it should be pointed out that this is essentially a matter for the stations concerned. However, because naturally I am concerned about any reduction in services to newly arrived migrants, I have asked the Commonwealth Immigration Publicity Council to look at the whole question. There are 23 Australian broadcasting stations which broadcast bilingual programs ranging from 5 or 10 minutes to very much longer - perhaps 3i hours - during the course of each week. Many years ago, I think in 1952, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board im posed on foreign language broadcasting a restriction to  2i  per cent of total weekly broadcasting time. It is a very restrictive provision and I am setting out to urge that that restriction be repealed in the interests of education and the enlightenment of the Australian community generally. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3)- 
Since 1966 the following study has been undertaken by my Department: 
Cross Sectional Study of Migrants in cooperation with the Bureau of Census and Statistics - designed to provide information of migrant experiences to be used as an aid to forward planning: Commenced July 1970; to be completed late 1974. 
The following studies have been authorised by my Department since 1966: 
Report by the Immigration Advisory Council Committee on Social Patterns - 'The Departure of Settlers from Australia': Commenced May 1966; completed October 1967. 
Australia's Immigration Programme 1968-1973 (Immigration Planning Council): Commenced November 1966; completed June 1968. 
Report by the Immigration Advisory Council Committee on Migrant Youth - 'Migrant Youth in the Australian Community': Commenced March 1970; completed February 1971. 
Second Report by the Immigration Advisory Council Committee on Social Patterns - 'The Departure of Settlers from Australia': Commenced October 1971; to be completed July 1973. 
Australian Population Studies - directed by Professor W. D. Borrie of the Australian National University and aimed at establishing desirable population levels and the desirable distribution of that population at various points up to the end of this century: Commenced July 1970; to be completed June 1974. 
Cost Benefit Analysis- directed by Associate Professor J. R. Wilson of Sydney University and aimed at analysing the effect which immigration has on the Australian economy: Com- menced July 1970; to be completed by mid- 1974. 
In 1969, the Department earmarked $50,000 towards the budget totalling $135,000 (1972) of the Migration Project of the Academy of Social Sciences. As a result the Academy was able to authorise: 

 Mrs Moira Salter's (Australian National University) 'Survey of Professional Immigrant Manpower': Commenced 1969; to be completed 1973, 

 Mr J. 
 J. Quilkey's (Latrobe University) Immigrants in the Automobile Industry': Commenced 1970; to be completed 1973. 
The above represent the more significant inquiries and research projects undertaken since 1966. Obviously there have been numerous studies and reports made by the Department in its day to day administration which I have not included in this answer. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question  is as  follows: 
Yes. 
The concept of citizenship is currently taught in schools in all States and Territories of the Commonwealth. However what I would wish to see are new courses of instruction developed which would be related more closely to the present-day nature of Australian society in all its aspects and emphasising particularly our responsibility towards the environment. 
Introduction of 4 Weeks Leave with 5 Weeks Pay (Question No. 113) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Requests for financial assistance which my Department receives from organisations or persons acting on behalf of migrants fall generally in 2 areas - those which relate to assistance in acquiring land or premises for the establishment of ethnic clubs and those which relate to funds to support the employment of persons engaged in welfare work in the migrant community. My Department has funds only to meet requests in the latter category. Community agencies engaged in direct welfare service to migrants may apply for a grant to meet the salary costs of a social worker to further expand such work. A requirement of the community agencies grant scheme is that the social worker to be appointed must be qualified and eligible for membership of the Australian Association of Social Workers. Since 2nd December one application has been received under the scheme and currently is under consideration. Since the same date I have approved 4 applications which were already in hand. The average cost of a grant under the scheme is approximately $8,000 per annum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For a number of years, a carefully designed training course has been provided for officers selected for overseas service. This course is subject to constant review to improve techniques and to meet changing needs. A course just concluded, for example, incorporated new material to prepare officers to employ newly-implemented migrant interviewing procedures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
10,312 persons. 
Five. 
Nil. 
Note: The information in answer to (1), (2) and (3) shows the position at 28th February 1973; February being the latest month for which definitive figures are available. 
(a) and (5) (a) Naturalised citizens are not subject to the deportation provisions of the Migration Act. 
(b) Statistics are not kept pertaining to persons under consideration for deportation pursuant to the provisions of the Migration Act 1958-1966. At any given time there is always a considerable number of persons technically liable for deportation as a consequence of crimes committed, illegal entry or unauthorised stay, whose cases are under examination. Of the total number of cases examined, in the final analysis only a relatively small number of persons admitted for settlement become subject to deportation proceedings. 
(b) As at 31st March 1973 125 persons had been deported from Australia on my authority since I became Minister for Immigration on 19th December 1972. The following table shows the nationality of the deportees, and grounds for deportation: 
There are 2 categories of students that come to Australia. The first category, in which this Parliament has a direct and continuing interest, comprises the Colombo Plan students. Colombo Plan students come here under agreements between our Government and other governments in our region of the world. If a Colombo Plan student wishes not to return to his own country at the end of his studies this is not a matter for the 
Minister for Immigration; it is a matter for the Minister for Foreign Affairs because it involves an agreement between Australia and other countries in the region. The second category comprises students who come here privately. In the past students from our own neighbourhood have been encouraged to come to Australia to study. Many of them have studied with great distinction. Many of them have led the way in our tertiary institutions. Perhaps their next activity has been to take a position here, for practical purposes associated with their studies. At the end of that period they have been required to return. The end result of that policy was that many valuable people ranging from doctors right through the whole gamut of the professions have left this country. They have ended up in Canada, the United States of America or Europe doing jobs which they could profitably have done here. In future each individual who comes here privately will be assessed on his merits. If he can comply with the criteria which are now in force he will be very welcome to stay. 
I listened to the speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  with fascination. It was the best exercise in the rewriting of history I have witnessed since I last read George Orwell at his fictional best.  His  speech carefully suppressed the fact that it was his former leader,  Sir John  McEwen, who invited the Yugoslav Prime Minister to Australia.  Mr McMahon,  the previous Prime Minister, said: 
The fact is that a general invitation was issued to the Yugoslav Government for its Prime Minister to visit Australia. It was issued by  Sir John  McEwen, who was then Minister for Trade and Industry. 
Presumably it was a triumph for the left wing of the Country Party. The Leader of the Country Party also, of course, carefully suppressed the fact that all the events about which he has just professed concern occurred under the administration of his Government. Everything occurred at that time, but nothing was done about them. I suggest that the Leader of the Country Party is finding his conscience in this matter too late to be credible and too late to be helpful to the men who are dead. 
Despite its obvious and patently party political nature, I do welcome the initiation of this discussion by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I do so because I recognise that the honourable member for Moreton has in the past had to depart from the views of his colleagues when matters touching Australia's independence and Australian citizenship had to be dealt with. He has now moved a motion which, in effect, states that Australia should be solicitous of the welfare of its citizens everywhere and at all times. I am in entire agreement with that sentiment. The whole emphasis of the present Government, led by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and of my personal administration has been to give Australian citizenship a status and a recognition across the world which it has hitherto lacked. The records show that in the past 24 years Australian citizens have been murdered, executed and imprisoned in various parts of the world without let or hindrance or apparent interest by successive Australian Governments. The entire incident to which the honourable member for Moreton has addressed himself occurred under the administration of his Government. 
The Opposition today is still suffering from a monumental colonial hangover. Australian citizenship was not taken seriously by the previous Government. To support that statement I need refer only to the fact that in the past there was a reluctance to have Australian citizenship recognised on its own for the strength that it had. The previous Government did not have the simple conviction that Australian citizenship was strong enough to stand on its own. For nearly 20 years it sent Australians overseas with a passport that was a confession of its failure to recognise Australian citizenship. For nearly 20 years Australians were encouraged to believe that they were still British citizens. That has not been true since 1949; yet Australians were sent overseas with documents that disguised their Australian citizenship and also, I might say, disguised Australia and in the process alternatively amused or embarrassed our friends in the United Kingdom and certainly made monkeys out of the Australians who believed in the emphasis given to their citizenship in the documents. 
At present we have a motion before us which is in fact an indictment of the previous Government. An overseas administration that treats Australian citizenship with contempt in the future will have to confront a determined Australian Government dedicated to the care and protection of all Australian citizens - for the first time in this generation. I have been very concerned within my portfolio to see to it that the embarrassments of the past are no longer experienced by Australian citizens proceeding to countries of their birth which recognise dual nationality. I am confident and happy that in most cases we will be able to avoid a repetition of the embarrassments which our citizens suffered in the past. I am confident that that will be achieved in the future. In some cases, such as with Yugoslavia, the Prime Minister has taken the lead in setting out to resolve those differences for the first time. I am convinced that they can and will be amicably resolved. 
Let us look at the position with respect to the laws of Australia and the world. Australia does not recognise dual citizenship. If an Australian overseas takes another citizenship he ceases to be an Australian. In contrast, the practice around the world differs vastly. For example, 15 of the 31 countries in the Commonwealth of Nations have provision for the recognition of dual citizenship. Other component countries do not. These include Canada, Ghana, India, Malaysia. Former members such as Pakistan and South Africa. Take a like attitude. Thirty-five countries outside the Commonwealth of Nations recognise dual citizenship. I mention but a few when I name Argentina, Egypt, France, Greece, Italy, Holland, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, Russia and Yugoslavia. There is an international complexity in citizenship which it is just as well for us to be aware of and recognise. For example, a legitimate child born in Australia whose father is a Netherlands national automatically acquires Australian citizenship. A legitimate child born in the Netherlands whose father is an Australian, or an illegitimate child born in the Netherlands whose mother is an Australian, automatically becomes an Australian citizen if its birth is registered with the Australian Consulate. By contrast an illegitimate child born in Australia automatically acquires Australian citizenship. If it is subsequently legitimated by its Dutch father, the child would acquire Netherlands nationality as well. 
I am giving an example of some of the things that should have been dealt with by previous Administrations in this and other contexts. An Australian woman who marries a Greek national thereby automatically acquires Hellenic citizenship unless she files a declaration to the contrary. These are matters of international complexity. Let us look specifically at the situation with respect to Yugoslavia. In the context of articles 3 and 4 of the Yugoslav Citizenship Law, a person born in Yugoslavia or Australia of parents who are both Yugoslav citizens is a Yugoslav citizen and remains so even with the acquisition of Australian citizenship. Article 12 of the Yugoslav citizenship law does, however, provide for the cessation of Yugoslav citizenship under certain conditions. The point I make is that there has not been pursued by past governments anything further than the recognition of an international convention of 1930  -  a generation ago. By contrast, just to talk about my own administration for a moment, what I have done is to authorise the initiation of talks to obtain from the Yugoslav authorities a recognition of ways and means of better recognition by them of Australian citizenship and also to reach agreement with the Yugoslav authorities for an Australian citizen of Yugoslav origin to be able to surrender his Yugoslav citizenship by international treaty. This would be under their own Yugoslav Citizenship Law. In this connection it may be possible to reach accord on a principle similar to that in the 'Protocol Relating to Military Obligations in Certain Cases of Dual Nationality' of the Hague Convention of 1930. 
I point out that the previous Government pinned all its actions very negatively to that particular Convention, but it studiously avoided recognition of the fact that Yugoslavia never signed the Hague Convention. Australia did, and ratified the protocol. By pinning all its responsibilities to that protocol the previous Government in fact abdicated its responsibility to  Australian  citizens. Article 4 of that Convention states: 
A State may not afford diplomatic protection to one of its nationals against a State whose nationality such person also possesses. 
So all that Australia did as a nation for many years was to warn Australian citizens who were proceeding to other countries in which they may have been born that Australia could do nothing for them. This was reiterated time and time again. It is duplicated in letters to national groups, to individuals and, indeed, is enshrined in a publication which has been issued for 20 years. Australia abdicated its responsibility. The present Government does not intend to take refuge in the Hague Convention of 1930. The Government will put an end to the neglect of Australian citizenship which has existed for a whole generation. The Government will ring down once and for all the curtain on the colonial past to which the Opposition has belonged. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proportion of unsponsored migrants in the total immigration program will in future vary according to Australia's needs. 
Under the immigration policies of the present Government, there will be 3 main elements in the immigration program: 
the reunion of direct family members, i.e. spouse, dependent children and aged or otherwise dependent parents, fiancees and fiances; 
other sponsored migrants; and 
unsponsored migrants in numbers and categories required to meet national needs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have arranged with my colleague the Minister for Education for talks between our 2 Departments on ways of improving the child migrant education program. One of the matters that we will be looking at is the extent to which migrant children would benefit from the greater use of their ethnic languages in the normal school syllabuses. The extent to which bilingual teachers should be employed wilt be a further aspect to receive attention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have written to the Minister for Education on the matter and there has already been discussion between our 2 Departments. 
No. 
See answer to (2). 
For children, yes. I would hope that courses for adults also would be free, but this will depend upon the medium of instruction (for example, there would be a minimal cost if the courses were provided as part of Adult Education programmes or evening courses). 
I would expect that for migrant children, citizenship instruction in the form which I envisage will continue to be provided in normal school syllabuses. The responsibility for developing citizenship courses for adult migrants is the subject of discussion with the Department of Education. 
This is yet to be determined but there will be emphasis on development in the minds of our new settlers, as well as the Australian born, of a greater awareness of our history, the preservation of objects of national interests and protection and respect for the environment. 
Minister for Immigration; Extra-departmental Advisory Organisations  (Question No. 98) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The extra-departmental advisory organisations for which I have responsibility are: 
It would not be correct to say that Japanese people who come here under the visa arrangements for business and other purposes are misusing their visas. The experience we have had is that they do, in fact, honour their obligations particularly well. I should like that fact to be placed on record. It is the desire of the Government to ensure that there is the best facilitated - if I may put it that way - movement between Japan and Australia and, indeed all the countries in the Australasian region, for the purposes of trade, culture, education and friendship. It is true, I understand, that there are some differences between the terms which are given to Japanese people coming for short term stays in Australia and those applying to Australians going to Japan. I am studying those differences at present. I hope that in our excellent relations that we have at the moment we will be able to end some of the differences which concern the honourable member for Shortland. I place clearly on record the fact that visas issued to Japanese people coming to Australia have been honoured particularly well and I pay a tribute to them. 
I saw the article in the "National Times'. The case mentioned therein is typical of some cases that have been brought to my attention in recent times. Unfortunately there are people who act as predators on newcomers. I suppose one of the best examples was that of individuals who were charging $30 to act as interpreters in certain instances. I am happy to say that that practice has been overcome by the initiation of the emergency interpreter services in Sydney and Melbourne which might be, and could well be, extended to other capitals if the need exists. If I remember rightly the case to which the honourable member refers occurred in Sydney. I have drawn the attention of the Sydney task force to this specific case for investigation and for examination of the whole problem of predators who undoubtedly take advantage of migrants' lack of knowledge of our language and lack of knowledge of Australia to take their illegal or improper exactions. They may not be illegal, so I withdraw that term, but they certainly are morally indefensible. 
The position in regard to the migration target, or the level of migration, for each year is exactly the same as it was when the Leader of the Opposition was Minister for Immigration. The whole of the associated problems of determining the target are examined by the Commonwealth Immigration Planning Council. 
As I was saying, the level of migration is a matter for recommendation by the Immigration Planning Council. At present the Immigration Planning Council is considering all of the factors to be taken into account in determining the level of the intake for next year. The Leader of the Opposition referred to shortages of skilled tradesmen. This matter will also be dealt with by the Immigration Planning Council. The Council brings in the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labour, representatives of industry, the trade union movement and all of the relevancies in this situation. The Leader of the Opposition referred to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I hope that the Prime Minister will approve of that Department at its most senior level joining the Immigration Planning Council so that the needs of decentralisation will be considered particularly by the Government in the migration program. 
I am pleased to have the Prime Minister's public approval. It will save the red tape of letters. I thank the Prime Minister. This means that in future the Immigration Planning Council will have a representative at the most senior level, I repeat, from the Department of Urban and Regional Development. All of the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition will be considered together. 
We have had discussions about migration and we will continue to have them. In relation to the supplementary question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, I am delighted to have discussions with all of my colleagues on the migration program. Indeed, I do so with great regularity and will continue to have those discussions. 
I indicated in my answer that there had been a significant change in policy in relation to consideration of applications by overseas students to remain in Australia. It will be remembered that the previous Government initiated a scheme for students coming from our own region of the world to study here. There was a concept that this would be designed to provide them with skills that would help their own countries. This was predicated on the idea that, in effect, a man can be directed where to go and what to do once he has graduated, lt has not worked effectively, as the honourable member will know. In fact, in some cases the people who graduated from Australian universities wilh very good skills, after coming to Australia privately, desired to enter here the profession for which they studied. In some cases in the past they were required to leave even though there had been a great demand for their services in the Australian community. They were required to leave and they left, but they did not go back to their own countries. They went to other countries, particularly to North America and Europe. 
We have reviewed the whole scheme - and the review is continuing - with a view to being a little more realistic about people and also to recognising that there is a great need and desirability to promote understanding in our own Australasian region. It is certainly not the view of this Government that we should close the doors to students. In our review we are looking at the human problem of students who come privately and with goodwill to be with us. It is not a case of taking it any further, in making more places available, than was done over recent years by the honourable member's Party when it was in office. It is not possible to direct the human spirit or human resources and we will be looking at each and every case on its merits as it comes before us. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
Yes. 
 in reply - The Opposition has attempted tonight to turn back the tide of history. It has rejected the concept of Australian citizenship as the badge of a free, strong and independent people. Instead it has returned to the past, particularly the last 2 Ministers for Immigration in the previous Government. The Opposition has given the impression of wanting to drag Queen Victoria from the tomb and set her up again to preside over the empire. I have searched my mind and my memory for an analogy to the present situation. 
As the people and successive governments of Britain have warned us - the imperial legions have been recalled. The sun has set on the empire. The Government of Britain has taken that country into the European Economic Community bound by the laws and statutes as laid down by the treaty of Rome. The reaction of the Australian Government fresh from receiving a strong mandate from the Australian people is to proclaim proudly our own independence and self-reliance. The reaction of the Opposition is to emulate those ancient British chieftains in the year Anno Domini 446. Four years before that date the last of the Roman legions had been withdrawn to defend Italy. The withdrawal had begun 44 years previously when Constantine the Great gave the orders for the first of the legions to return from Britain. 
Forty-four years later the ancient Britons were still holding on to the coat tails of the disappearing empire. Vortigern and other ancient British chieftains made the last fruitless appeals for the legions to return. Vortigern's successors in this Parliament might be reminded that he so lacked confidence in his own country's ability to survive outside the Empire he invited in the Saxons to help and they promptly took over and destroyed the ancient British kingdoms. The Australian people can be assured we will not follow in the footsteps of that ancient Briton Vortigern. 
The Opposition opposes the abolition of discriminations. It has said, in effect, today that it wishes to retain the past where racial discrimination was the factor which dominated our citizenship laws. Depending on where you came from and what colour you were the last Government gave out citizenship on a basis of one year, 3 years or 5 years. The whole racist structure was taken to such lengths that photographs were required to show whether applicants were light enough skinned to be welcomed. That led to the merry little practice of underdeveloping films so that Suzie Wong appeared lighter than the driven snow. The discriminations were primitive. They have been ended. 
The patron saint of Australia's migration and citizenship program today could well be Robert Burns, who once wrote: 'A man's a man for a' that and a' that'. Each individual is assessed today on his or her merits. There are still one million people in Australia who are eligible to become but who have not become citizens. The Government is saying to them all: 'Join the family of the Australian nation through citizenship based on one cri  terion,  one oath and one ceremony with all discriminations banished'. We ask the Parliament to vote for Australian citizenship, one and indivisible. 
How could any Minister responsible for immigration and citizenship go out to the million here now and the tens of thousands still coming and draft them off like so many sheep and cattle, saying: 'You go to the one year pen; you to the 3-year pen; you to the 5- year pen. Italians, Dutch, Germans, Greeks and Lebanese to the right and wait for 3 years; Tongans, Zambians, Canadians, British and Indians to the left and wait for one year if you are light enough and 5 years if you are not*. That spectacle is a tragic one. It must not happen in future. 
The Opposition has talked more about British migrants than any other. Yet during its long term of office it left many British migrants completely in the dark about their citizenship status. It failed to tell them that they were not automatically citizens. It failed, indeed, to tell Australians that they had ceased to be British citizens when the Imperial legions began to leave our region 24 years ago. While it permitted tens of thousands to remain in ignorance of their status it merrily deported 2,481 Britons, among the 9,000 it deported from 1954 to 1972, because they had committed offences and were not citizens. At the same time it kept on the statute book the provision in the Crimes Act which permitted Australian citizens to be deported. We will wipe out this disgraceful provision and thus ensure that no Australian Government, now or in the future, can deport Australian citizens. 
I appeal to all members of the Parliament to look at this citizenship legislation in a nonpartisan manner rather than on the basis  of  narrow party politics. The Bill simply proposes that all discrimination be eliminated from the requirements for the grant of Australian citizenship to migrants. I was both surprised and sorry to hear that the Liberal Party of Australia, as a party, would oppose this Bill. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  when Minister for Immigration, introduced a citizenship Bill in 1969 which showed a progressive outlook for that time by recognising the growing importance of the status of an Australian citizen. That Bill specifically provided that an Australian, when asked to state his nationality, had only to say: 'I am an Australian citizen'. The Government now puts to the House in the form of the present Australian Citizenship Bill that it is time we progressed still further towards reality by ending the artificial discriminations in the present Act. 
I want to point out that there is no difficulty at all in relation to the subject of renunciation. It is vitally important to recognise that there has been a complete misconception about this matter. Any renunciation required by our law does nothing to deprive the individual of former citizenship. That is determined solely by the law of the former country. I add here that the Government is acting towards a solution of that position. Australia does not in fact recognise dual citizenship. Those Greek or Yugoslav citizens, for example, who in the past have been made to renounce their allegiance to their former countries at our citizenship ceremonies have still remained Greek or Yugoslav citizens. All that the requirement has done is cause a great many migrants to refrain from applying for citizenship because they find it a severe emotional obstacle to appear to renounce culture, background and home. 
Finally, there has been an objection to the omission of a reference to the Queen in the oath or affirmation to be made at citizenship ceremonies. Can there truly be any objection in principle to our new citizens undertaking to uphold our Constitution? As the Opposition well knows, our Constitution gives prominence to the position of the monarch and no Act of Parliament can change that without a referendum of the people. 1 ask again that the Opposition consider the position of the settlers who want to become citizens. 
From one end of Australia to the other there has been an enthusiastic welcome by the majority for the provisions of this Bill. Even today from the Returned Services League - from a sub-branch in Victoria of British exservicemen who have settled here - there has been an enthusiastic welcome for this legislation. They have wanted it, they have asked for it and they support it. I appeal to all members of the Parliament to build national unity, end discrimination and promote a proud independence for Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I authorised the new procedures for migrant selection in the last week of January and, on 31st January, I announced this in a statement. On1st February, the instruction was conveyed to all overseas posts to ensure that staff were adequately trained to implement the new procedures as soon as this became administratively practicable. 
Each prospective migrant is required under the new procedures to meet 5 basic requirements: he must be economically viable in Australia; he must have the personal qualities necessary to adjust readily to his new country and to cope with the problems of resettlement; 
He must sincerely intend to settle permanently in Australia and become a citizen;  he must be medically fit: and he must have a satisfactory character record. 
The new procedures are concerned particularly with the first 3 of these requirements (separate procedures are used for assessing the other 2) and are designed to secure a comprehensive and penetrating assessment of each applicant to ensure that he meets these requirements. 
The new procedures differ from those formerly in use in that each applicant will be specifically assessed (and the assessment recorded) on each of the economic, personal and social factors listed below in (4). In addition, using these assessments, a more penetrating, consistent, objective and comprehensive judgment can be made of the extent to which an applicant meets the first 3 requirements referred to in (2) above. 
In making assessments of applicants, account will be taken in all cases of the size of the family and the age of children, the presence of relatives in Australia and the assistance expected from relatives and friendsin this country. Within the framework of these considerations, each application is assessed in the following way on the 4 aspects specified in the question: 
The determination of economic viability is based on the assessment of the following factors: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 9th March 1972 the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications has met formally as a full Committee on: 27th April 1972 24th May 1972 29th June 1972 19th July 1972 24th August 1972 12th September 1972 20th October 1972 23rd November 1972 19th December 1972 15th February 1973 22nd March 1973 
Apart from its December 1972 meeting which was held in Melbourne, the Committee has met on all other dates in Canberra. 
There have been 34 expert panel metings during this period: 
I must inform the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party that there has been nothing before me at all in relation to this application. When the  Deputy  Leader asked his question of the Prima Minister I did mention to him that I had nothing before me. Like my colleague I will make immediate inquiries following the honourable member's question. I will let him have advice as soon as possible, directly and personally. 
Yes. 
 in reply - In closing this debate. I would like to sum up briefly by referring to a couple of things that were said during the course of the debate. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  asked me when I would be in a position to make a statement on the 415 investigations of people who have been associated with violence either as its practitioners or its victims. I want to inform him and the House that I hope to make a progress report shortly on this matter. No one has been deported in this context at all. I thought that I would clear up that point 
I think that a quick reference might be made to the gulf between the former Minister for Immigration and the present Minister. I think that the former Minister, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  summed up the gulf remarkably well in relation to my desire to abolish discrimination.  His  remark, as reported in yesterday's Hansard, was: 
What is wrong with discrimination when there are valid overwhelming reasons to discriminate? 
No criticism I could make could ever be more eloquent than his own criticism of himself. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  posed 2 particular and pertinent questions. First, he asked whether Australia was the only country not to have a renunciation requirement. The answer is: No. There are 18 major nations that do not require a renunciation. I mention just a few of them: Ireland, New Zealand, United Kingdom, France, Israel, Italy, Japan and the Netherlands. 
The honourable member also posed a question which I think related to a case which he had brought to his attention in regard to Yugoslav citizenship. I must just say that the Australian Government does not recognise dual citizenship. If one of our citizens takes on another citizenship he ceases to be an Australian. In relation to the particular case mentioned by the honourable member for Darling Downs, if he lets me have the details I will certainly follow it up. However, for the information of the House, in view of the great interest that there has been in this matter of dual citizenship, I think I should let the House and the honourable member know that article 4 of the Yugoslav Citizenship Law Act of 1964 provides for Yugoslav citizenship to be acquired by a child on 3 bases: If both parents are Yugoslav citizens at the moment of the child's birth; if one parent at the moment of the child's birth is a Yugoslav citizen, and the child is born in Yugoslavia; or if one parent at the moment of the child's birth is a Yugoslav citizen, the other parent without a citizenship, and the child is born in a foreign country. I think that might answer the honourable member's query. 
I point out that Article 15 of the Agreement between Australia and Yugoslavia on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in Australia states: 
If a Yugoslav citizen is taken into custody m Australia, he shall be informed that, upon his request, the. nearest Yugoslav diplomatic or consular mission will be informed of his detention. Where such request is made and. subject to the laws and regulations in force in Australia, facilities shall be offered to a 
Yugoslav diplomatic or consular representative to visit and to communicate with the Yugoslav citizen taken into custody. 
We in the Australian Government recognise that this is a proper provision. We also hold the view that wherever our citizens are, there should be equal access of Australian citizens to Australian consular and diplomatic missions whenever there is a need for them. We hold very strongly to that view and we are endeavouring to negotiate in just those terms. I say in summation that the Government hopes for the support of the House in this sincere bid to wipe out discriminations and to bring to Australian citizenship a new status for the future. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Three matters have been raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  The first relates to the general attitude to and care of Australian citizens by the Government while they are overseas, or wherever they may be. As I mentioned at an earlier stage of this Bill, my officers have been investigating 415 cases relating to people who have been associated in one way or another with the practice of violence and, in some cases, who perhaps have been the victims of violence. We as a government were shocked to discover what had happened to some Australian citizens. Some had been murdered, some had been shot, some were missing and some we have not yet accounted for. We have tried very hard in the last 4 months to do some of the jobs that obviously should have been done many years earlier. 
I return to the point of the renunciation of a person's former allegiance. I hope it is not suggested that the people of Ireland, New Zealand or Britain or the other countries I have mentioned are any the less citizens of those great countries because they have not been required to undergo the emotional hardship of renunciation. It is interesting to note that, among the countries that do not require renunciation is Yugoslavia - a country that we have had under discussion. The important point to realise is that this is purely an emotional form of words. It has no legal force. As I pointed out during the second reading stage of the Bill, all we are doing is causing unnecessary emotional hardship for no good reason. We, as a govrnment said: 'Why do it?' and in fact, we have provided in this Bill for its removal. 
The second point that was raised by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party when putting forward his amendment referred to the matter of the form of reference to the Sovereign. I was very concerned that we should get a consensus of opinion on this matter because the change in form of reference does not indicate a change of allegiance. The form of allegiance of Australians is contained in the Constitution. It is an allegiance to the Throne, to the Senate and the House of Representatives and to the Constitution itself. One of the alternatives to the present oath was not considered satisfactory in its present form by the citizenship sub-committee of the Immigration Advisory Council which I asked to look particularly at this matter. 
I have some sympathy with the suggestion made by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party relating to the term 'Queen of Australia'. This point was looked at by the citizenship sub-committee. There are difficulties in doing this because of the present form of royal style and titles. It has been indicated and acknowledged generally by the Sovereign herself that the present form is just not accurate and adequate in 1973 and, therefore, she has acquiesced in a change and this is to come before the Parliament. If we were in our considerations to have described the Sovereign as the Queen of Australia, it would have been acceptable to some members of the sub-committee. I believe that several members of the sub-committee spoke very strongly in favour of this and there is no reason why they should not have done so. But the difficulty, again, is in the description of the Sovereign - Queen Elizabeth II. Suggestions were made that if we were going to describe her firmly and clearly as Queen of Australia, it should be Queen Elizabeth I because, obviously, we were not here at the time of Queen Elizabeth I of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
There were these various considerations to be taken into account and we also took the view that it could be confusing. We are anxious to see that all who come here, including those people from the 31 countries of the Commonwealth of Nations, are not confused. Some of the countries in the Commonwealth of Nations are republics and some are kingdoms and some of the kingdoms have as their leader or their head of state Queen Elizabeth I or Queen Elizabeth II, depending upon the style adopted in the various countries. We thought it would be a matter of complete confusion to the people who came from the former British Commonwealth countries - now, Commonwealth of Nations countries - who would under our laws take a new citizenship. They would find themselves with the same head of state, a different oath, a different allegiance and a different citizenship. Obviously, this is a case where the tide of history has moved on. We felt that to prevent any confusion which could occur, this was a perfectly reasonable way of clearing up possible confusion and nothing more. That is what we have done and we hold to it. 
There was one final point made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party when putting forward his amendment. He referred to his concern for British migrants so I thought I would quote a letter from the  President  of the British Sub-branch of the Victorian Returned Services League. I had made a statement prior to receiving this letter in which I said that there had been in the past a neglect of United Kingdom settlers and the  President  wrote a letter to me on 2nd May in which he stated: 
 I have received several telephone calls from my Sub-branch members drawing my attention to the report All the callers were most enthusiastic over your comments and your outlook towards migrants, in particular those who came from the United Kingdom. It is like a breath of fresh air! 
He continued: 
It came as a shock when we arrived many years ago to find that we would never be treated as other than permanent visitors to Australia. 
This impression, I am glad to say, is fast disappearing since you became Minister for Immigration, and for this we thank and congratulate you. 
That is the voice of the British migrants, not the members of the Opposition and I am grateful for it because that is my dedication. On behalf of the Government I must say that we have given careful consideration to the matters raised in this amendment but we cannot accept it because we feel that what we have put forward is in the best interests of the nation at this time. 
I rise to reply briefly to one rather important matter raised by honourable members because the points they made about the oath of allegiance deserve, I think, to be commented upon. But there is a factor that perhaps the mover of the amendment, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  has not taken into account and I would draw his attention to it because it is very germane and one of the reasons why we made this change. The honourable member has perhaps overlooked this. If the amendment were accepted in its present form it would have to be changed again because notice has been given that the Sovereign has approved a new formulation of style and titles. I want to give to the House the new style and titles that the Sovereign has approved. The new formulation is, as was mentioned in the House of Repre.sentitives on 1st May: 'Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God, Queen of Australia and  Her  other Realms and Territories, Head of the Commonwealth.' These are the new style and titles which at some stage will come in. 
 I take the point. But I just draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that the oath of allegiance and the affirmation of allegiance in this case are in fact in the Schedule of the Bill so they cannot be altered. They are a part of this Bill. It is obligatory on all the people responsible for administering those oaths to follow the formulation which of course in the words of the Opposition's amendment is:  'Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia.  Her  heirs and successors. . .'.I must say that it is because of such confusions that we have proposed the change. If this amendment were adopted and a Bill brought in - undoubtedly it would receive the unanimous support of the Parliament - I would have to come back in 2 or 3 months time and bring in another amendment to the Bill and we would be just as confused. Really, as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said, it was a small matter. Allegiance does not change. I suggest on this occasion, in view of the fact that we have made the changes, that if after the changes have been made to the Royal style and titles the Opposition feels like moving an amendment it should by all means do so. But, quite frankly, at this stage to accept the amendment would be to add to the confusion and would not help the situation which the honourable member for New England has advanced to me tonight. For those reasons we cannot accept the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr Sinclair's amendment)  stand part of the Bill. 
It is true that there had been some criticism that Qantas was not getting a fair share of the migrant traffic. In fact Qantas has carried 83 per cent of migrants under arrangements and programs that have been carried out directly by the Australian Government. My colleague the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation has been watching this aspect very closely. We have had talks about it and have made sure that Qantas carried the maximum amount of passengers. Even of the number of people who have come here under ICEM - the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration - we have been able to get more than three-quarters of that traffic. The remaining small section has to be set to one side because we have agreements and arrangements with other governments and they, of course, have a right to some share of it. But I can assure the honourable member and the House that Qantas has been getting a very good deal out of the migrant traffic in the past. 
I must say bluntly that no one suggested secession. As a matter of fact it was a most harmonious meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers and there was a large measure of agreement on the matters before the meeting. Regarding one point raised by the honourable member, it is true that the Ministers and the representatives of all States present favoured some lifting of the program in the next financial year. That point was made by a'1 the Ministers and/or their representatives. The meeting was most useful and most harmonious. We reached agreement on many important points. The formula which will implement the new immigration policies was endorsed and will come into operation in all States. As a matter of fact the meeting brought forward some very useful suggestions from the States. These are now under examination by all Ministers. The final point I make is that the meeting was so useful that it was decided to hold a further conference of Australian Government and State Ministers for Immigration in November. Queensland nominated that the meeting be held in South Australia and the South Australian Premier was good enough to invite us there. We have accepted his invitation and we will convene again in November in Adelaide. 
I appreciate fully the problem which has been raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  He is giving voice, I might say, to a considerable concern expressed by many in our community at the present time. I want to reply to the honourable member very specifically on one point, namely, that the Department of Immigration of the Australian Government is advised in the basic principle relating to this matter by the various State Departments of child welfare. The biggest problem faced by these families, or at least the individuals, who wish to adopt the children, the dispossessed, the orphans of Vietnam is to validate the adoption through the State authorities. In the first instance, these children must be adopted according to Vietnamese law. When that is done, the next obstacle is in relation to the State department. If the various State departments approve the adoption and when proper clearance has been secured  I  will give every support - I want to pledge my co-operation in this - to getting the child united with its parents of adoption in Australia. But the essential problem resides with the State department. 
In regard to the matters raised concerning the United States Government and its procedures, I must say to the honourable member very specifically and very honestly that I am not aware of these procedures. I will have them studied, as a result of the honourable member's raising the matter tonight, and I will be in touch with him about them, but please assure all the folk- 
I will do that through the honourable member and I will also let the House know the result of the studies. I am aware of the concern, I share the concern, I am anxious to help. I think it is a matter of acting in partnership and in concert with the State governments concerned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! It being 11 o'clock the House stands adjourned until 1 1 a.m. tomorrow. 
I am afraid that in reply to a question without notice I cannot say exactly what happened during the previous Parliament or what consideration, if any, was given by my predecessors to this suggestion. But I must say that I am very much attracted to it. I think there should be somewhere a national compilation of documents and material that would illustrate in one place the history of migration perhaps from the arrival of the First Fleet on 26th January 1788. I think it is an excellent suggestion. I have often thought that Canberra, the national capital, is remarkably bare of monuments to our past either to people or to events. I can recall only my friend  Mr Robert  Burns and a past monarch being commemorated by monument in Canberra. 1 think it would be a very fine idea - 
One was a better poet,  Mr Speaker.  I think it would be an excellent matter to consider. I will certainly examine what consideration, if any, was given by my predecessors to the question which the honourable member mentioned had been advanced. I will certainly ask my Department to explore whether we could have a collection and perhaps the basis of a monument to migrants in the national capital which would bring together all this historic data. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Residents of Papua New Guinea do not as such have right of residence in Australia. 
Admission to Australia will continue to be dependant upon meeting the criteria for entry to this country. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information sought is not available by calendar years. The accompanying table gives the number of officers, at 30 June for each of the past 10 years, employed in each classification, and the annual percentage change of each classification. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were 495 teachers employed in Victoria (447 in State schools, 48 in Catholic schools) under the Child Migrant Education Program as at the beginning of the 1973 school year. 

As from 1 July 1973 the South African Government will impose certain new requirements on Australians visiting that country. For example, on arrival as visitors Australians will be required to be issued with a temporary entry permit - a visitor's visa, in effect. Another condition of entry is that the visitor's visa will not be interchangeable with a visa for permanent residence or for work. There will also be the requirement that a return ticket or a cash equivalent be held by the Australian visitor proceeding to South Africa. If Australians proceeding to South Africa in the future need or desire a work permit or a migrant visa they should apply for it before leaving this country. These measures are in line with measures taken by most other countries. They certainly represent a departure from past procedure, but this is a matter for the South African authorities. I say, in passing, that there now remains only one country to which Australians can go without let or hindrance for any purpose and that is New Zealand. 
I did see a report which suggested that the Government had a new and dramatic policy. It was news to me, I must say. In fact, of course, there has been no change in policy at all. We are operating within the policy that was laid down at the change of Government. There has been no re-starting of the immigration program because the immigration program has continued. Two major things were done under the new policy of this Government. One was that it was decided that the immigration program of the Government in future .is to be finely tuned to the economy. The second was that a decision was made in the face of unemployment at that time not to import unemployment by maintaining the immigration intake at a level which was not commensurate with our national needs. So, a reduction was made. The target of 110,000 set for the intake this year is a considerable lift of people into this country. We have continued along the lines of that program. We have had an intake every month and probably every week all the time that we have been in Government. 
There has been no suggestion of re-starting the immigration program; it was never stopped. To suggest that we should have a system whereby we can attempt to turn on and turn off the migrant tap, just like that, is absurd. It cannot be done, and it has never been contemplated. In the first quarter of this year the immigration intake was something more than 11,000. We are proceeding at full pace within our policy and under the arrangements now made the intake in this quarter will be about 14,000 or more. This is entirely in accordance with the program and the policy that we laid down. Finally, it is certainly not the intention of this Government to engage in a mindless quest for numbers. To do that is simply to play with human hopes and aspirations and also with the Australian taxpayers' pockets. In the last calendar year, with a total intake of about 120,000, due to departures we had a net population gain of 27,000. This is a completely unsatisfactory situation as far as we are concerned. It is important to end wastage and all our major efforts are being directed to that end. 
12.35) - I am not sure what gave birth to this matter today. It certainly was not the conditions of the countryside. Of course it might have been the Victorian election, which indicated that the Australian Country Party vote in Wimmera, for example, was halved and that there was an increase in the Australian Labor Party vote in Dundas, Portland and Kara Kara. In fact, the rural vote for Labor in Victoria was up, so this perhaps is a signal that something should have been done by the present Opposition when it was in government. It is rather interesting that in relation to long term planning the Opposition could not even plan the speakers' list. On the Opposition side the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was to be followed by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  but we had the interpolations of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who was not even on the list, and I have here a copy of the list. 
It is difficult for the Parliament or the nation as a whole to take seriously this casually introduced matter of public importance referring to the present Government's lack of concern for the countryside. It is surely a smokescreen introduced by the past Government, the present Opposition, to hide its years of failure which culminated in a rural recession that was in existence when we took over government on 2 December. The former Government actually reduced the Australian farmer to penury for the first time in a generation and, as I say, the countryside to a rural recession. The policies of the past Government, the present Opposition, caused that recession. Australia was the only country in the world that had the distinction of having a rural rcession when everyone else was moving ahead very nicely, thank you. 
Let us just see what was the position when we took over. The previous Government had been preaching rationing, restrictions and reduced production. Its policies of cut back brought us to a whole series of crises. It rationed wheat production. Now the industry is rationing customers. The previous Government was so pre-occupied with cutting back that it brought us within a week of having to import butter. The past Government's policy to protect the wool grower saw prices drop to 29c per lb for wool from parts of my electorate. What the former Government did was too little too late. It allowed bankruptcy, it allowed hardship and it did not even apologise for them. Let us have a little look at the help it gave. To whom in the main did it give help? It was to the banks and the brokers. The members of that Government are the people who have come forward with this matter of public importance today. 
It is interesting to see what the previous Government did even for the fruit industry. Honourable members opposite were talking, with great indignation, about currency adjustments. There were 2 currency adjustments during the Prime Ministership of  Mr McMahon.  The adjustments resulted in a serious problem for the canned fruits industry. When we took over government we found that there was no Treasury allocation to meet those adjustments and in fact there was not even provision to discuss the actual provision of such finance. A discussion was not even listed. Nothing had been done at all. When one takes over the books one can look to see exactly what the position is. 
Then, just to make sure that there was no industry that was not in trouble the previous Government imposed a wine tax - the height of stupidity. The result of this was to make sick an industry which was previously healthy. What happened to land values? They dropped to the lowest level in a whole generation. Land values were down. There was no rural credit because the taps of credit had been turned off. In New South Wales the rural reconstruction scheme was broke for months under the previous Government. It had no money. It was writing to people saying that it had no funds. Yet the Opposition says now - 5 months later: 'Listen, all these problems of the past are really your fault.' It is very interesting of course to have this sort of thing coming from members of the Country Party. The other day I got a copy of the Platform and Policy of the Australian Country Party. I notice that there are 2 or 3 interesting points in it and I think that they are very good. I will just read one or two of them. One reads: 
For a period of not less than 10 years, payment of incentive guaranteed minimum prices to producers to ensure continuity of production. 
That is excellent. It has been in the Country Party's platform since 1949. This is another really good one: 
The Commonwealth Bank to be free to enter into competition on a competitive basis with private banks in all banking business. 
That has been there since 1949. 
Yes, just like the rural bank. Another one reads: 
No settler shall be asked to commence repayments to the Crown until the property could reasonably be expected to be in profitable production. 
That is very good. It has been there since 1949. The copy of the platform which I have is dated 1949. What has happened? None of those things were honoured in any shape or form. I turn to some of the policy promises. This one is very interesting because it is one on which the Country Party came into power. It 'says:   'a pounds worth of purchases for every pound spent' - rates of direct and indirect taxation steadily reduced. . . . 
That promise was made when the Country Party first became part of the coalition government. What happened? The rate of inflation did not slow down and the rate of income taxation increased at all levels. That was an interesting one. There was another very interesting policy speech in which it was said that the cost of petrol is to be no more than 4c a gallon above the city price anywhere in Australia. That is an interesting point. Have honourable members opposite forgotten about that one? Perhaps they ought to have a look at it. 
Let us see what the present Government has done in 5 months. We rescued the rural reconstruction scheme from bankruptcy. We offered $38m - not a small sum - with an additional offer on a dollar for dollar basis to the States if it were needed. Then we gave the wheat growers their first increase in 15 years in the first advance to $1.20. These champions opposite are a little bit late. Then we provided millions for isolated children, the most neglected children in the whole of Australia. They had been neglected for a whole generation. Honourable members opposite sat back and did nothing. What did we do? We found some millions for these children and they are getting help for the very first time. Then we abolished the iniquitous wine tax - the ultimate piece of stupidity by the dying Government as it was then. 
As far as new lending facilities are concerned, my friend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  will deal with the Government's record but we will shortly be announcing a new initiative on new lending facilities. We have had a dedication and we have had it for 50 years to provide long term low interest finance. I can remember on one famous occasion going with the leader of the Country Party to Condobolin to talk about the rural recession. I said that we had a commitment to long term low interest finance. I said that it was in our platform and that it was there for several purposes. It ranged from 3 per cent. I said that we could make it available as had been done by a New South Wales Labor government by government guarantee. I gave an example and 1 said that under that system there could be made available an amount of $500m at 3 per cent interest using a government guarantee and the only call on the Treasury would be for an amount of $15m to service the interest rate and to subsidise it. I think that is a very good example of what can be done. It is one of the things that we have been looking at. 
In 5 months we have made considerable progress in establishing priorities for what must be done. I make no apology for giving examples of the sort of thing that can be done. In 5 months we have done many of the things that we set out to do. But there are other things that remain to be done. Going back to the platform and policies of honourable members opposite and also going back over their policy speeches, I say that if we cannot do better in the next 23 months than they did in 23 years of governing the countryside I for one will be bitterly disappointed and disillusioned. I think it is pretty obvious that the reason why this matter has been brought on for discussion is that there is a need to make a noise following an obvious trend. The trend is pretty definite. It is borne out by the divisions which exist which are pretty obvious. 1 cannot say that I blame the divisions for occurring because it is obvious that there are great disagreements among the gentlemen on the Opposition as to what they really should be doing in the future. 
The Prime Minister made clear in his policy speech the commitments for immediate policy to which honourable members can refer. He made them loud and clear. They referred, among other things, to rural finance. All of the things which he set out to do he has put in train. If honourable members opposite are suggesting that we have not in fact implemented all of the promises in our platform in the first 5 months of the first new government for 23 years, of course the suggestion is correct. But to bring on for discussion this matter of public importance at this time is absurd and it is a waste of the time of the national Parliament. 
I want to make it plain at the outset that task forces have been established to identify the most urgent problems and to recommend solutions in the short term in the areas in which they have been established. They have been set up in every capital city in all States. I gather that the honourable member was asking about the Victorian task force set up in Melbourne. I must say very bluntly that I have not heard of any such memo. I know of no such memo. I would be very surprised if one had been formulated in those terms because I have given clear instructions that all possible help, cooperation and information will be made available to these forces. That is the exact position in regard to the task forces. They must have all possible help in order to do their jobs because they are essentially a short term force to do emergency jobs in relation particularly to the Government's desire to stop the wastage and to end the drain of people from our country. Following upon the question that has been posed by the honourable member I will have urgent inquiries made and I will advise him before the end of the day on the specific matter that he has raised. But he has my assurance that there will be the fullest cooperation and the maximum facilities will be made available to enable the task forces to discharage their important jobs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that as  Mr Chan's  case is pending appeal it is sub judice. It would therefore not be proper for me to reply until the matt* has been dealt with by the Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Persons approved for travel as unassisted migrants are granted visas or endorsements normally valid for travel within a period of twelve months and there is no obligation to provide travel details. Statistics of persons approved for unassisted migration who have not yet travelled to Australia are not available. 
Assisted migrants usually travel under arrangements made by my Department. As at 30 November 1972 there were approximately 19,000 persons approved and awaiting movement Many of these would have arrived in Australia by now whilst others may have deferred or cancelled their migration. The number of those approved as assisted migrants at 30 November 1972 still overseas is not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Complete statistics on the rejection of visa applications are not available but from the information held from some thirty-five countries, including the major sources of migrants, it is estimated that in the threemonth period December 1972 to February 1973 inclusive, 5,000 people who had applied to enter Australia were refused authority to do so. In addition, applications for assisted passages covering an estimated 13,000 people were refused during this period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The new migrant counselling and selection system was developed by a departmental committee which held its first meeting on 18 June 1971. The Committee's task involved examination of procedures for application by migrants as well as their selection and counselling, and it first considered these latter aspects in depth at a meeting on 27 January 1972. 
On 31 August 1972, the Honourable Member as Minister for Immigration, announced that new measures for migrant selection and counselling were being planned. 
In November 1972, these procedures were discussed at meetings in London and New York of Chief Migration Officers stationed in Europe, the Middle East and the United States of America and were field-tested in four migrant source countries. As a result certain changes were made. More recently, at my instigation, special emphasis has been placed on the need for all migrants to have the sincere intention of settling permanently in Australia and joining the Australian family through citizenship. 
My statement of 31 January 1973 referred to the fact that these new procedures 'had drawn on the expertise of senior officers within the Department of Immigration which had been anxious to improve selection methods and training of selection and interviewing officers' and announced that they were to be brought into general use in migrant source countries forthwith. This has been done. 
In the last few months a wide range of suggestions has been put forward from various quarters in regard to guest workers. There have been suggestions that we might have guest workers from the South Seas for harvest purposes; guest workers from Norway to become fishermen temporarily; guest workers from China to build roads in Victoria; and guest workers from Europe to fill some of the gaps in the building trade. About the only institution that has not asked for guest workers so far is the Parliament, but never mind, it might happen. The concept of guest workers is not one that I would accept nor would the Government. If we were to engage in the practice of employing guest workers as it operates in, for example, some European countries we would be abandoning our traditional attitude to migration; that is thai we bring people to this country, welcome them and want them eventually to join the nation, to join the national family and be a part of us. Certainly it would be a very unfortunate development if we were to have an alien bod) that would be continually alien in the national framework and within the national family. ] think it would be generally rejected as a concept by the majority of Australians, because after all, we are a developing and a growing community. 
We are virtually a new nation now because shortly half of the population will be under 25 years and one Australian in every three ii the product of post-war migration, either by coming to this country or by being a child oi grandchild of migrant parents. So we have : new nation now. The great thrust is to try t( build it in unity and I do not think a guest worker concept would help that at all. The honourable member has raised a very pertinent question in relation to the harvest which will come in the months ahead and next year. Of course there are difficulties there. I appreciate the difficulty which the honourable member has pinpointed in his question. Already I have had discussions with my friend and colleague, the Minister for Labour, who is well aware that $2m or $3m worth of crops could be at risk next year if we do not have adequate harvesting arrangements. I hope that, as a result of our continuing discussions and deliberations, some arrangements will be made to overcome the difficulties. However, we reject the concept of guest workers. I assure the honourable member that we will be examining, with all sympathy and with the idea and objective of doing something worthwhile, the problem he has raised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Membership in itself of the Communist Party or any lawful political party is not considered a reason for refusing citizenship. It remains the law that applicants for citizenship must be of good character, have an adequate knowledge of English and of the responsibilities and privileges of citizenship and fulfil requirements as to residence in Australia. 
It is true that there is a problem about migrant education, particularly at the workshop level. In Victoria something like 30 firms and corporations are co-operating in language and citizenship classes at workshop level. This is very commendable. In New South Wales only one or two firms are doing this. I know of none in Queensland, and in the other States the position is much the same. This matter is giving me and the Government great cause for concern. There is a need for Australian industry, which benefits so much from migrants, to play its role in integrating those people. We have been so concerned that today in Canberra a meeting is being held of the adult migrant education officers of the States and the officers charged with educational  responsibilities in the various State branches of the Department of Immigration. Those officers will be meeting in Canberra today to see whether we cannot, by joint State-Federal action, do a more effective job for migrants in the workshops. This is something that we are dedicated to doing. 
The honourable member also asked whether the Commonwealth instrumentalities could give a lead in this matter. That is a very useful suggestion and I will undertake to have it examined with my colleagues. Just in passing I think of the Postmaster-General, the Minister for Defence - because there are factories under his control - and some of my other colleagues who have direct responsibility for instrumentalities which employ large numbers of migrants. I think it is a very good suggestion from the honourable member that the Commonwealth should give a lead in this matter. I will undertake to discuss it with the various Ministers concerned. 
It is true that urgent problems in inner city areas are confronting, in particular, people who have come to our country to join us, join the work force and join the family. I must say that the most urgent problems probably exist in Sydney and Melbourne at the present time. It is true also that there have been discussions over a couple of years now about a series of multi-lingual welfare officers to help in the attack on the problems which have been created by the unplanned movement of people into the cities. I am very pleased to say to the honourable member that we have advertised for this force of 48 and that the interest was very considerable - in fact, throughout Australia there were more than 600 applications. I am also pleased to say this morning that the long delay has ended and that the selections will be made in time, I hope, for the first of them to begin duty in July of this year. 
It is true that this Government has a dedication to the freest possible movement between friends and neighbours particularly in our own region. We are contemplating some new initiatives to bring that about. It is true, as the honourable member suggests, that in one or two locations passport holders other than Australians receive some advantages. For example, in Japan British passport holders have one or two advantages over Australian passport holders. I think this is probably due to the earlier initiatives of the British Government. I hope that the new Australian Government will be able to ensure that we have an equal opportunity with British passport holders to come and go in Japan. I hope that all honourable members agree with that initiative. It is also true that there are considerations in relation to the easier movement of tourists into Australia that will concern the Minister for Tourism. It is very difficult to facilitate tourism if the applicant is subjected to an inquisition as if he were intending to come and stay permanently. It is proposed to try to streamline procedures, to cut the red tape and to facilitate visits between friends and neighbours particularly in our region. 
The second point that might be made in  j  answer to the honourable member is that the * Minister for Civil Aviation is concerned that Qantas Airways Ltd planes often fly out of i Australia pretty heavily laden with tourists  r  but they do not always return so heavily laden from the same locations. This reflects the difficulties of processing tourist applications in other locations. Certainly we want to streamline the procedure and facilitate visits in our own region. I want to add only one thing to my answer to the honourable member. While we want to bring about this streamlining and improve facilities to visit other countries, particularly those in our region, this can only work if Australia in turn gets a fair deal in the way of tourists out of these who come. Someone who comes to Australia for a visit has to recognise that he is visitor. We love to have visitors, but a visitor is not a permanent member of our family and at the end of his visit he is expected to go. I hope that the proposed Government initiatives will be to the good of our region and Australia. 
I table a progress report of the investigations of residents associated with criminal extremist activities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On one occasion if my response to a question on a television programme 'Monday Conference' broadcast on 12 February 1973 could be regarded as a discussion. I answered a question put to me by a member of the audience who turned out to be  Mr Baltinos  of the New Settlers Federation and I presume it is this Federation to which the question is intended to refer. 
(a) and (b) The question raised by  Mr Baltinos  was related to Miss Nancy Prasad. Subsequently an application by Miss Prasad for re-admission to Australia was received, her case was reviewed by me, and as a result she is now in Australia. 
(a) The New Settlers Federation provides services for migrants. My Department does not extend to the Federation official recognition or support nor does it regard the organisation as representative of the migrant community 
(b) I am not aware of the Federation's membership figures. 
(c) The precise nature of the services rendered by the Federation are not clear. Some activities have been the subject of inquiries from time to time. I am aware of a statement made by the Chief Secretary, New South Wales Legislative Assembly on 25 November 1970. 

 Mr Baltinos established the Federation in November 1960. It is not a registered body. Its letterhead shows no office bearers other than the GeneralSecretary who is  Mr Baltinos.  I am unaware of any official information published by the Federation about its activities or of any financial statements, membership details or other reports. 
I have studied a detailed paper on the Federation prepared at  my  request by my Department 
Certain activities have given cause for concern. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the number of aliens of each nationality who were granted Australian citizenship between 1 January 1945 and 31 December 1972 (includes children under the age of 16 years included on the Certificates of their parents) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my statement to the press on 11 March 1973 I said that my Department would be seeking approval (from the Public Service Board) to appoint 48 multi lingual welfare officers, some of whom it was proposed would work with migrant children in schools and between the schools and migrants' homes. These proposed appointments were identical with those to which the previous Minister referred in his statement to Parliament on 31 August 1972. The intention to make such appointments was first discussed however at a meeting with State education authorities on 12 January 1970, and there is reference to my Department's intention to assess the need to extend its normal integration services, through the provision of interpreters and welfare officers to meet the requirements of the child migrant education program, in the Ministerial Statement made to Parliament on 23 April 1970 by the then Minister for Immigration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The network of planned new migrant education centres in all States to which I referred in my statement to the press when opening the first of the new centres in Perth on 21 February 1973 does not differ from the proposal on the same subject to which the previous Minister referred in his statement to Parliament on 31 August 1972. In my statement to the press in Perth I acknowledged (as reported in the Melbourne Age' on 22 February) that the network of new centres was first planned by the previous Government. The concept of migrant education centres in the States is not however new. A centre has been in existence in Melbourne since 1952, when my Department obtained accommodation for the adult migrant education section of the Victorian Department of Education. So that classes could also be held in the centre, a move was made to larger premises in December 1959 and in 1967 the centre was again moved to its current address at 200 Little Coffins Street. New and larger premises are planned for Melbourne to accommodate the increased faculties which we are now providing under both the child and adult migrant education programs. 
Soviet Activity in the Indian and Pacific Oceans  (Question No. 477) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In a statement on 28 December 1972, I said the flow of skilled migrant workers, for whom there was an existing demand in Australian industry would be fully sustained now and in the future.* 1 also said: 'Immigration had played a significant part in the supply of essential workers to industry over the year'. 
A good example was the metal trades industry. In 1971 of 15,000 new entrants to the metal trades workforce, over 5,000 were migrants predominantly from Britain, Italy, Yugoslavia and Germany. 
This statement is still valid. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Approval was granted for the entry to Australia of a Pakistani man and his family on the basis of his re-union with immediate family relatives in this country and his ability to meet the criteria for migrant entry. This man was a successful applicant for the lease of farming land on the Ord River and a subsequent report indicated that he proposed to bring farm workers from Pakistan to work on the property. 
The following is a transcript of my reply to questions about the proposal during a television interview in Perth on 21 February 1973: 
The concept of building a little Pakistan in Western Australia or any part of Australia is totally and absolutely to be rejected. 
The same way as a little Austria or a little Albania or a little Wales, this is not the concept that we have. 
The idea is to build a united family not to have little bits and pieces and enclaves - totally unacceptable and the idea we need to import rural workers at the present time I find extraordinary because living in a rural area myself- 400 miles inland I know what the rural recession of the last 3 years has done to the countryside and the problem is then to get work for people blown off their properties by that recession. 
I can't see any place for the idea at all.' 
The Government's immigration policy is  designed to give priority to the re-union of families in Australia. Other people, irrespective of their race or nationality, may be sponsored by residents of Australia where they have qualifications, skills or experience recognised by the appropriate authorities in this country as well as a firm offer of employment commensurate with their skills for which there is a national need. People found eligible for consideration on these grounds have to show on assessment that they: will be economically viable in Australia; have the personal qualities that will enable them to fit into the Australian community; are medically fit; have a satisfactory character record; and have a sincere intention of making a permanent home in Australia and joining the Australian family through citizenship. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The statistics kept cannot identify United Kingdom and citizens of West Indian descent. Consequently information in the form sought is not available. 
The following table gives the information requested in (i), (i) and (iii) of question (1) in respect of the total British Assisted Passage Program for the first three months of 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Table 'A' attached shows by nationality the number of persons deported from Australia from 5 December 1972 to 30 April 1973. This is the latest period for which statistics are presently available. 
Note: The table of deportations, effected as provided in answer to Question 396 on 1 May 1973 (Hansard Page 1545), incorrectly showed in the cases of Malaysians and Yugoslavs that four and eight respectively had been deported during the period 19 December 1972 to 31 March 1973. The deportee shown under Category 'A' as Malaysian was actually Chinese. In relation to the Yugoslavs, one person ordinarily resident in Western Australia was deported from New South Wales and incorrectly counted twice, being included in the statistics of each of the two Branch offices of the Department of Immigration. None of the persons was a naturalised Australian citizen; Citizens are not subject to the deportation provisions of the Migration Act 1958-1973. Disclosure of the names of the deportees could be harmful to the names concerned and their relatives and that information will be withheld. 
Most of the detailed information sought cannot be provided without researching the individual case files. However Table 'A* shows within broad groupings the grounds for deportation. Table 'B' their ages; and Table 'C the States and Territories of Australia in which they resided prior to deportation. 
Each of the deportees was returned to his former homeland with the exception of one Yugoslav (deported to New Zealand where he was resident with his parents prior to entering Australia), and 35 ships' deserters for whom further sea-going employment was arranged by the responsible shipping companies. 
Only those persons deported on criminal grounds whose records or past behaviour indicated a propensity towards violence would have travelled under supervision to their homelands. The normal practice is to arrange their movement aboard Qantas flights on which security officers of that Airline are travelling. 
Although I would be obliged to withhold information which could be harmful to individual deportees if disclosed, should you be able to narrow the scope of your question, I shall endeavour to obtain some of the outstanding information which you require. In this respect the question which you directed to tho Prime Minister on 2 May 1973 (Page 1553 of Hansard) seems to indicate that you are interested particularly in Yugoslav deportees. 
Whilst my Department does not receive information as to the action which is taken by foreign Governments when their citizens are returned as deportees from Australia, I am able to say that none of the seven Yugoslavs referred to in Table 'A' was deported on account of established involvement In terrorist activities. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 30 April 1972 (the latest date to which statistics are available) 181 persons had been deported from Australia since the present Government came into power on 5 December 1972. The breakdown by nationality is shown in Table 'A' attached. 
Note: The table of deportations effected, as provided in answer to Question  396  on 1 May  1973  (Hansard page  1545)  incorrectly showed in the cases of Malaysians and Yugoslavs that four and eight respectively had been deported during the period  19  December  1972  to  31  March  1973.  The deportee shown under Category 'A' as Malaysian was actually Chinese. In relation to the Yugoslavs, one person ordinarily resident in Western Australia was deported from New South Wales and incorrectly counted twice being included in the statistics of each of the two Branch offices of the Department of Immigration. 
Each - of the deportees was returned to his former homeland with the exeption of one Yugoslav (deported to New Zealand where he was resident with his parents prior to entering Australia), and 35 ships' deserters for whom further seagoing employment was arranged by the responsible shipping companies. (3),  (4)  and  (5)  The detailed information sought is not at present available and could only be obtained by researching the individual case files. However Table 'B' shows within broad age groupings, the ages of the persons deported. The sex of each deportee is not recorded for statistical purposes because almost all deportees are males. Within the period in question less than five females would have been deported; two of whom are known to have been stewardesses ofl overseas vessels. 
See Table 'A'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The information held from 52 countries in which the migrants were selected shows that applications for assisted passages and unassisted entry approved in the three-month period January to March 1973 inclusive, covered a total of 21,742 persons. 
(a) The following are the countries and numbers involved: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Having regard to the sanctions imposed against Rhodesia by decisions of the United Nations Security Council the Government had decided: 
to allow visits to Australia by holders of Rhodesian passports only when strong humanitarian grounds are present; 
to allow private tourist visits by residents of Rhodesia holding other than Rhodesian passports provided they are not known to have furthered or encouraged the unlawful actions of the illegal regime in Rhodesia; 
not to allow visits by persons resident in Rhodesia whether holding Rhodesian passports or not, or by other persons resident elsewhere for the purpose of attending conferences (except those of a religious nature) or participating in sporting events in which they would appear as representing Rhodesia; 
to determine on their individual merits visit applications by residents of Rhodesia holding non Rhodesian passports wishing to attend conferences in their individual capacities - not as representatives of Rhodesia. 
No. 
and (4)  Mr E.  J. M. Zvobgo was admitted to Australia as a visitor from the United States of America. He holds a passport issued by the United Kingdom authorities.  Mr Simbarashe  Mumbengegwi is at present studying in Australia. He holds an award under the Special Commonwealth African Assistance Plan. He travelled to Australia on a passport issued by the United Kingsom authorities. Those aspects of the honourable member's question which relate to  Mr Simbarashe  Mumbengegwi are within the responsibilities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and have been referred to him. 
Three held South Africa passports and the remaining two held United Kingdom passports. However, it is understood that three of the five also held Rhodesian passports. 
Yes. 
All but one were of European descent. 
See Answer to Q. 99 Hansard 758-759 of 27 March 1973. 
and (10) See comments under 3 and 4 above concerning  Mr Simbarashe  Mumbengegwi. 
This answer replaces that which appeared in Hansard (Proof) page 3031. 
The following table shows the number of aliens of each nationality who were granted Australian citizenship between 1 January 1945 and 3.1 December 1972 (includes children under the age of 16 years included on the Certificates of their parents). 

 Mr Speaker, I rise to add a personal postscript and also one on behalf of the Department of State which was founded by Arthur Augustus Calwell. It is my privilege to head that Department at this time.  Mr Calwell  founded the Department. Immigration was his last portfolio in government. I remember very vividly that when the government changed in 1949 he made a speech at a citizenship convention which he had arranged but over which he, of course, did not preside because there had been a change in administration. He said to the Minister who succeeded him from the other side of the Parliament: 'I bequeath you a fine Department and I hope to have it back in good order.' That ambition of Arthur Calwell was not realised but one thing that we on all sides of this Parliament can say is that he did bequeath to the nation the Department of State which he founded, in which today there are many people whom he brought in, including the permanent head of that Department,  Mr R.  E. Armstrong, who began his career in the administration as private secretary to Arthur Calwell. He is now the permanent head and the custodian of the traditions that Arthur Calwell brought to the same Department of State. He left it with initiative, integrity and dedication which I am happy to place on record after my short term of personal stewardship. I should like to say also that he was a great personal inspiration. He gave his advice in a friendly but firm way. I was always grateful for it. I must also say that he was a great inspiration to me personally as the epitome of Australian democracy and an egalitarianism. I once sent him a telegram in which I said: 
When Adam delved and Eve span, Where was then the gentleman? 
I think if there were a gentleman in terms of service and dedication then it was Arthur Augustus Calwell. I am very pleased, on behalf of all who served in the Department of Immigration over the years and who serve now, to add to the tributes which have been paid to him today in the House of Representatives. 
I realise the problem to which the honourable member has referred. It had been raised with me by honourable members on both sides of the Parliament. It is the problem of people who have come here as tourists in the past few years and, in defiance of their original visa arrangements, have taken employment, probably have a firm place in the society, have gained extension after extension and of course are here now. As Minister for Immigration I am faced with the fact that they have established themselves. They came as tourists and have freely confessed this. They came in this way because under the old policy in many cases they would not have been eligible for consideration as migrants. I have tried to look at their cases on an individual basis and take into account the previous policy and how they would be received under the present criteria. In the last few months a number of decisions has been made that have given permission for such people to stay in Australia. This has been in response to representations, I repeat, from honourable members on both sides of the Parliament. I have been happy to do that and will continue to do it in relation to those people who came under the previous criteria. But I want to stress to all members of the Parliament at this time that on 1 September there will come into operation in Australia, in relation to tourists, a completely new system which will enable people to come to this country with the minimum of red tape, with the rninimum of inquiry and with the maximum of help from the Australian Government. Of course, those people will be expected to honour the terms of their visa agreements and to leave on the completion of their visits. I make it quite plain that after 1 September we will expect those people who travel to Australia under the new procedures, which are the easiest that can be devised- and we will welcome all who take advantage of them- to honour their undertakings and to return at the end of the period specified. We will give consideration to the individual cases of persons who came here under the previous criteria as each case comes before us. 
-The honourable member and other honourable members have been very anxious about these appointments, and I can understand why. We received 600 applications for 48 appointments and they came from every State of the Commonwealth and included an array of talent which speaks well for the Australian people at this time. The selections by the Department of Immigration have been completed and the appointment action by the Public Service Board is taking place now in all States. There have been 48 selections made and the appointments are in process. They cover people from 17 different origins and between them they will have 24 languages which, again, is a pretty good indication of the talents we have in the community. I would hope that the precedures would be completed and the appointees would be in training for their jobs by next month. 
I move: 
That the amendment be taken into consideration in the Committee of the whole House at the next day of sitting. 
Before that question is put, with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I just say that when this Bill is called on tomorrow I intend to move for a change to the amendment proposed by the Senate. I hope that this amendment and another minor amendment that I shall propose can be circulated later today so that honourable members may consider them in time for tomorrow's debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member asked a specific question about a report which appeared in a newsletter to the effect that it had been reported that a leading American criminal had arrived in Australia and had been accepted here. In cases such as this if the criminal is important enough he is usually described as a member of the Mafia. This is a 5-letter word that indicates that the person in question has arrived in the sphere of crime. 
I did take the report in question very seriously because obviously any entry of a criminal into Australia is a matter of deep concern to us all. I did check out this matter and I found that the description of the man in question as a leader in crime did not agree with the information in the possession of either the United States authorities or the Australian authorities. I would like to say that we enjoy the closest possible liaison with United States crime detection agencies in the prevention of the movement of criminals to Australia or, for that matter, from Australia. I am very pleased to acknowledge that continuing co-operation and I may say that we will use it to ensure that there is no entry of undesirable elements or criminal elements. 
The term 'Mafia' is being used more and more frequently. It seems that this famous 5-letter word is used by any tin-pot criminal who wishes to increase his own status. It has been used to categorise people who happen to have been before the courts in Australia recently. Of course, if there are any indications that people who have criminal records seek to enter Australia we will take all possible precautions to see that they are not admitted. I would like to assure honourable members that generally speaking we receive very good co-operation from crime control agencies in all countries. There is, however, room for some improvement in our relations with at least one country in this regard and I am hoping that within the next few months we will succeed in improving the situation so that we will achieve greater cooperation with that country. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
The objective of the Bill is to eliminate the annual notification of address, occupation and marital status by aliens required to register under the Aliens Act. Although the register of aliens has been satisfactory insofar as initial registrations are concerned, a large proportion of aliens fail to provide the information necessary to keep their addresses current. Non-compliance with the provision of the 1947 Act which required notification of change of address, occupation or marital status within seven days of any change developed to a high level. 
In 1965 the Act was amended to provide for only annual notification of address, occupation and marital status, but the noncompliance rate persisted. In the first year (1965) after the introduction of this amendment, 84 per cent of registered aliens complied. In 1972, however, only 46 per cent responded despite improved methods of handling notifications, including the dispatch of computer prepared notification requests to last known addresses and the provision of business reply paid envelopes for the return of the notification forms. 
Although provisions exist in the Act for prosecution for non-compliance with the notification requirement, these are defective from a legal and practical standpoint and prosecutions have not been instituted for some years. If prosecutions were to bc instituted it would mean prosecuting something like 150,000 people a year and I do not believe it is in the interests of migrants, or the nation, that this draconian action should be taken to secure information which is on file basically anyway. Because of these factors the requirement of annual notification is not serving the purpose for which it was introduced and should be abolished. 
The Bill contains 9 clauses of which the first 2 deal with the title and date of commencement. Clauses 3 and 4 simply provide for amendments to delete references to 21 years of age in sections 7 and 7A of the principal Act and to substitute instead the new age of majority - 18 years. Clause 5 deletes from section 8 of the principal Act references to section 9, which is to be repealed. Clause 6 repeals section 9 of the principal Act which is the section under which aliens have been required to notify annually, their address, occupation and marital status. It is the removal of this requirement which 'is the objective of the Bill. Clause 7(a), like clauses 3 and 4, provides for amendment to delete references to 21 years of age and substitute references to 18 years of age in section 17 of the principal Act. 
Clause 7(b) provides for the omission of sub-section 3 of section 17. This particular sub-section provided penalties for the parents or guardians (of aliens under the age of 21 years) who had failed to comply with the annual notification requirements. With the repeal of section 9 of the principal Act, subsection 3 of section 17 no longer has relevance. Clause 8 simply deletes reference to section 9, which is being repealed, from section 18 of the principal Act. The opportunity has also been taken to make some formal amendments of the principal Act to accord with current drafting practices. These are covered in a schedule of formal amendments under clause 9. Requirements with respect to initial registration of aliens will remain unaltered and the updating of records from information received through departmental sources will ensure the maintenance of an adequate register of aliens. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Scullin did ask me in May of this year what could be done to preserve the heritage that we have in migration and citizenship by way of establishing a museum in Canberra to house all of the documents and to retain all of the segments of our history which, I might say, are dispersed and could easily be lost. I did have some talks with the Minister for the Capital Territory and he was enthusiastic about the idea. I also indicated at that time that I would look to see whether anything had been done by my predecessors and I found that the honourable member for Bowman had asked a question of the previous Minister for Immigration, now the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in 1970. He had expressed similar concern that the heritage of history that we have in migrant and citizenship should not be lost. The previous Minister indicated that he welcomed the suggestion and he would follow it up. I discovered from the files that he did this and I am pleased to say that I have now arranged for a small history section to bring together all the data we have so that it will not be lost and I hope to arrange for its publication. So, that is one section of it. In regard to the proposal of the honourable member for Scullin, I will continue my talks with my colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory, to see whether the museum could be established. The thought had occurred to me in view of the proposal for a new Parliament House - on Capital Hill, I believe - that if this great, historic structure were to be left without a use, it could well become a museum for our past enterprises. 
I move: 
That the Senate's amendment be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, clause 19 of the Bill be omitted and the following clause substituted: - 
The Second and Third Schedule, to the Principal Act are repealed and the following Schedules substituted: - 
I express my appreciation for the solicitude of the Opposition in making sure that proper attention is paid to this important measure. Seeing that the Opposition has taken the trouble to draw the attention of its repleted ranks to what we are discussing I think it worth my while to repeat the figures that I was quoting from the gallup poll conducted in 1973 relating to the Government's proposals to require prospective Australian citizens in future to actually stand up for Australia. I will quote the figures again in case some honourable members missed them. I was just about to say that in the younger age groups up to 29 years of age, 83 per cent of the people polled were in favour of swearing allegiance to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia. Seventy per cent of Australian-born and 70 per cent of post-war non-British migrants were in favour and the majority of post-war British migrants were also in favour of the change. 
While the Government believes it has support among the community for the form of the oath of allegiance to the Australian constitution put forward in the Citizenship Bill I have accepted the intent of the Senate amendment in the spirit of compromise, but let me say clearly that compromise further we will not. With the change in the royal style and tides giving specific expression to the Queen of Australia, the Government has in its amendment to the form of the oath of allegiance for grant of citizenship continued in an explicit manner to identify formally such change. With the passage of the Citizenship Bill through the Parliament the substantive provisions contained in clause 2 (3) of the 
Citizenship Bill which include the proposed new oath of allegiance will come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation which will be after the Queen has proclaimed her Royal style and title in Australia. That is a courtesy which the Government had sought to accord the monarch, which the Senate did not. 
I turn now to the short amendment proposed to clause 5 of the Bill. Territories dependant on the United Kingdom when this Bill was introduced included the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. With effect from 10 July 1973, the Commonwealth of the Bahamas achieved independence and became known as the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. As a consequence, its inclusion in the list of Commonwealth countries to which section 7 of the principal Act applies has had to be considered. 
I am making the point that we are happy to have recognised the independence of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. 
For once he is on the side of the angels instead of the men of yesterday. 
I am sure he missed several. I do not blame him for missing that division. 
Three honourable members from this side of the House - the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  - were looking forward to waxing eloquent on this matter because they have deep feelings and deep dedication towards it. But time will not permit them to speak. Let me sum up the debate in this way: The honourable member from Queensland who has just resumed his seat is a member of a distinctive minority, because 71 per cent of all Queenslanders voted exactly opposite to the way he has spoken tonight. I would like to reply to the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who led for the Opposition. He made a most important point and I think that it is one that should be dealt with in the Parliament. 
New boys in school often get their fingers in the tarts. 
May I just say, with all charity- 
It means 'in the jam'. 
If the new boy finds that he has never had his fingers in the tarts I will withdraw it. 
I have just withdrawn it. Relax. May I just repeat what I said earlier? 
Let me reiterate that 71 per cent of Queenslanders disagree with the honourable member and therefore I hope that he will apply himself to the poll. The one point I want to make, and I want to make it in concert with the Opposition, is that I think all of us in this Parliament are dedicated to ensuring that citizenship ceremonies in our nation will be carried out with the maximum of decorum and dedication. Certainly we are unanimous in our support of one allegiance, one criterion, one oath and one ceremony. It is on that basis that I commend our amendment to the Committee. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Grassby's)  be agreed to. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be further amended by inserting in clause 5 before the words -  "People's Republic of Bangladesh"  the words - "Commonwealth of the Bahamas". 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Mr Grassby)  agreed to: 
That in the message returning the Bill to the Senate, the Senate be requested to reconsider the Bill in respect of the amendment made by the House of Representatives to Clause 5. 
I did notice a report of an allegation that an Australian passport was used to facilitate the departure from Australia of Ronald Biggs. I had immediate inquiries made and am pleased to tell the honourable member and the House that no Australian passport was involved. The report was that an overseas criminal had made his passport available to Ronald Biggs so that Biggs could leave Australia and that he subsequently applied here for the replacement of that passport. Inquiries which I made immediately the report was drawn to my attention indicated that no Australian passport or Australian officer was involved. I want to add that the movement in and out of Australia of Ronald Biggs does indicate the need for the closest possible liaison between Australian and British authorities in matters such as this. I hope that in future there will be even closer co-operation and liaison to ensure that international criminals do not use either country as a kind of public convenience. 
The honourable member for Melbourne, I might say, is vice-chairman of the Victorian migrant task force. At present there are only 11 factories in Australia with about 250 workers in workshop English classes. Last year there were something like 600 workers in workshop classes in 13 factories. Most of them were in Victoria. In some States there are no such classes at the workshop level. What the honourable member says about other progressive countries with large numbers of people who do not speak the national language is quite correct. For example, in Sweden there is legislation which provides that if a factory is employing large numbers of people who do not speak the national language, the arrangement under the law is that workshop classes must be held to help them with the language and with citizenship. In Australia this has not been done to a satisfactory degree. That is my answer to the honourable member. I hope that this year the present level of 250 participants will be much improved and the number of participating factories will be increased. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I have been seriously misrepresented by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  The honourable member for Mackellar in this House a few moments ago stated that I had double-crossed my electors in relation to some matter, and I think he was referring to the former wine tax. I point out that such a claim, an intemperate and a somewhat dishonourable claim, is completely without foundation. I did campaign for the removal of the wine tax, and within a matter of weeks of the present Government coming to power that tax was removed as promised. It was very dishonourable for the honourable member to make the comments he made in this context. If it was any other honourable member involved I would ask him to withdraw and apologise. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer the the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There are no statutory authorities under my control. Accommodation occupied by the Department of Immigration is arranged through the Department of Services and Property. Therefore, the answer given by  Mr Daly  (Question No. 174) includes all nonGovernment owned accommodation occupied by the Department of Immigration. 
For the information of honourable members I present the initial reports of the migrant task force committees of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. I present also a transcript of the conference held at Brisbane on 11 May 1973 between myself and State Ministers for Immigration. For the information of the House I would mention that the next conference of immigration Ministers will be held in Adelaide on 9 November 1973. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget speech devoted 11 lines in Hansard to the immigration program and to all the problems which have been uncovered in recent times in connection with the settlement of people in this country in recent years. The Leader of the Opposition last night indicated that there was a high availability of high quality migrants to come to Australia to do the jobs which are presently available. He capped this 11-line reference to immigration with a sad attempt to create further divisions in our society by talking about people disliking migrants - surely a strange phrase in a nation of migrants. It was an unworthy end to a most inadequate reference to the migration program and the problems which exist at the end of the 25 years of population building which Australia has undertaken. 
As a former Minister for Immigration I would have thought that the Leader of the Opposition would have attempted to give some attention to the very real inadequacies which exist in Australian society at the present time in relation to the people who have come here recently. I would have thought there would have been at least some token of sympathy for the people who have to come to feed the industrial machine with their labour, their hopes and their aspirations. I would have thought that he at least would have had a word of sympathy for the children who are crammed into cloakrooms, cellars and other makeshift meeting places to learn the language of their new country. I would have thought too that if he believed that there is at present a great international queue of people waiting to come to Australia to fill the vacancies to which he referred he would have done the House the honour of sharing his sources of information. To brush off the whole of the problems of settlement of citizenship in our country with 11 lines is hardly adequate. 
Perhaps I should not have been surprised because he shrugged off the 5 years and more of rural recession with the shallow alibi that in 6 months or 7 months 'his Government has neglected the rural sector when he knows that the overall allocations in the Budget are higher than they were last year under his Government's administration. But more important he virtually forgot the betrayal of  rural interests by his own Government which resulted in 30,000 farmers and their families being run off from the. land, including families from my own electorate. Today the Australian Wheat Board is touring the world to ration customers following the endeavours of the previous Administration to ration wheat growers. The concern about food shortages is a concern born of the fact that the neglected rural sector in the past was forced to kill breeding stock which raised not even enough to pay debts but simply to subsist. So the legacy of the last Administration is a huge debt structure, shortages of every grain, lost opportunities for new forms of production - I mention only one, soya bean, just as an example. Yet with it all there is not a moment's regret, not an acknowledgement of shame or responsibility for the hardship of past years. 
It was pointed out today eloquently by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  that for the Leader of a party which ruled for a generation and which forced more people into the cities than we have ever had in our history to talk about decentralisation is a mere exercise in double talk. We have inherited the Augean stables and it will take a lot to clean them up. The countryside today, I am pleased to say, is on the high road to prosperity again. In my own area there are $30m worth of new projects dedicated to the production of food and fibre with every encouragement. There is no doubt in the minds of the investors about the future and the confidence which we have at present. 
The pretence of helping the countryside in the past is gradually being stripped away. We have seen in the past millions of dollars made available ostensibly to help wool growers, but they never received it. We saw how $25m. was allocated in the past to fruit growers and they received less than $5m. We have seen dairy subsidies that failed to correct the poverty in the areas it was supposed to assist. We have seen indeed a huge outpouring of money which never reached the people that it was purported to be for. There must be a total examination of the position of. those who should have been getting amounts from the Australian taxpayer but which went to vested interests and did not reach the people that it was supposed to be destined to help. 
Perhaps the greatest inadequacy of the speeches not only of the Leader of the Opposition but of nearly all the honourable members that I have heard on the other side of the House has been the lack of recognition of the divided nature of the country the Government of which they so reluctantly handed over on 2 December 1972; the divisions in the community, the divisions among citizens, the education gap which exists - not the generation gap but the education gap. 
One of the tragedies of government in Australia and indeed one of the tragedies besetting the Australian people is that the high hopes of the founding fathers of Federation have not yet been realised. It is not a bad idea and it is not a bad exercise for us in Australia in the 1970s to go back to the rhetoric of the constitutional debates - the Federation debates. Should we become a nation? Should we become a united Australia? Should we become a country in the South Pacific with a high destiny or should we remain - I cite debates of 80 years ago - a collection of petty provinces. It is not a bad idea for honourable members who have not been interested to attend to their duties to try to understand to re-read the speeches made not even at the turn of the century but before then, to find out what the high hopes of the founding fathers of our Federation were. One of  the.  things they wanted to do was to end the position of Australia being a collection of petty colonies, of petty provinces. I cite speeches that are now 80 years old and which portray the high hopes that have not yet been realised. There is indeed less co-operation between the States of Australia in the 1970s than there is between the sovereign nations that comprise the European Economic Community in the 1970s. But of course some of us are content to wallow in colonialism and to wallow in the hangovers of the last century. 
The absurdities of these colonial hangovers are still with us. Australia is the only country in the world where the wild duck changes its sex life when it crosses a river. 
I do not know that at all. I am indebted to the honourable member for interjecting. As a matter of fact I doubt  very  much whether it is a fact. The laws of the sovereign States of New South Wales and Victoria solemnly say and set out that the duck is different on the 2 sides of the river. Australia is the only country in the world in which these petty provinces can solemnly rule that the fruit fly is viable only between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and on certain roads. These absurdities live with us after 70 years. 
Just a few days ago a group of young Australian women at the Barham High School, which is right on the Murray River - there were about a dozen of them - wrote to me to protest against discrimination. The discrimination that they protested about was that a few yards away is an area which has tertiary institutions that they would like to attend. The area is within a stone's throw of where they live, but because of the colonial boundaries drawn in the last century by clerks in another country who were not too well up on what they were doing, these girls are precluded from going to their natural centres for tertiary education. They said to me in 1973: 'Why?' I give the Opposition full credit - I mean this and I direct my remarks to the distinguished member of the Opposition who is at the table, the honourable member of Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  who is at the moment representing the Opposition in this debate - for saying: 'We accept it'. 1 was glad. But let us see just what happened. 
Members of the Opposition accepted the great principle of wiping discrimination but allowed the whole thing to be held up because of a gaggle of words involving a term which is hurtful and which has no legal significance, but which indeed would lend hurt to 1 million people in our country who have not yet applied for citizenship. These are the real things in relation to building national unity which I have been concerned enough to mention. (Quorum formed) The reason is that we have been ruled for too long by little men dedicated to yesterday. That was the reply I gave to the young women concerned. 
I refer now to the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications, which was established, incidentally, by my predecessors. I very much doubted whether the Committee was doing good work until I met its members and understood their problems. I discovered that the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications had been labouring mightily and well to try to get some understanding of other people's qualifications. Its members were trying to do this very sincerely and well but I discovered that their greatest single obstacle was not in trying to relate what was happening to migrants coming to Australia but in trying to work out what happened between so-called Australians - between the Victorians and the New South Welshmen, between the New South Welshmen and the Queenslanders and so on. In 1973 it is an indictment of the discussions of the last century on our national unity that we have not yet established in any shape or form national qualifications. They do not exist. 
This Committee is trying very hard to develop what is called national accreditation, lt is trying to develop screening methods whereby it would be possible to say to people from the 60 countries that send us people at present: These are some national standards'. Actually, we do not have any at present but we are trying to develop them. Some professions, notably the physiotherapists are co-operating extraordinarily well and they have high hopes that the architects, the dentists and the medical profession will follow. But these are the first steps in the 1970s; 72 years after Federation we are trying to achieve some simple unity on professional qualifications. I commend the Committee warmly for its work because in the process of trying to give a new deal to migrants it has also set out of course to bring some unity in the professional sphere to Australians generally. 
I notice that the Leader of the Opposition talked about strong national action on inflation. He said that decisions should be made in Canberra that were binding on all the people of our nation - all 13 million of us. He said that it should be done and proclaimed. Those were wonderfully strong words but there is only one trouble with that principle. We are not a nation. Constitutionally, the Leader of the Opposition knows as well as we on this side of the House know that it is not possible. There was one great almighty omission in his speech. He did not say: 'I will support the granting of powers to enable you to do it and if you fail at the next election, I will have those powers and will do it'. I would have respected the Leader of the Opposition for that, because that is the truth of the situation. However, he did not say this. He knows that there is no such thing legislatively as the Australian nation. There is a gaggle of petty provinces which are happy in their colonial hangovers. 
Wc cannot do even the simple things that the New Zealanders are able to do. I was a member of the mother Parliament of Australia, which happens to be the Parliament of New South Wales, which had the privilege of administering New Zealand for an entire generation. Yet, that offspring of the mother Parliament of the Australian Commonwealth can do things today nationally that we are unable to do after 72 years of so-called Federation. So, in fact, we are not in a position to undertake national planning and national policies. All we can do is to hope and pray. Every time this principle is put forward, there is some dear old man of yesterday who rises in his place - I do not say in this place, but in some other place - and says: 'That is a terrible centralist speech'. As far as I am concerned, the prospect of centralised decision making in relation to administration is anathema to me. 1 do not want to see all decisions that touch on day to day administration made in Canberra any more than I want to see them made in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth or Brisbane. 
As a matter of fact, one of the things that has happened in our country is that we have maintained the third tier of government as a 
Cinderella.  It has been neglected, deliberately starved of funds and deliberately denigrated. Wc arc trying to do something about it. Of course, there are those who want the present situation to continue. There are those who do not want a change. There are those who, spiritually, should not worry about what happens in Australia in 1973 because they are the spiritual sons of Her Imperial Majesty Queen Victoria and they should have gone to  their  illustrious rest with her. 
I was greatly amused to hear reference to the fact that the Japanese are confused about our present policy because during my recent visit to Tokyo I met the executives of nearly every major corporation headquartered in Tokyo. I found no confusion at all. They recognised that at long last Australia has followed the example of Japan itself to ensure that there are national guidelines for the use of Australia's resources. Japan has been doing this for generations. In fact, they wondered why we had not done it before. They were always so concerned and confused about us that on one famous occasion there was a gentleman, now retired, named  Sir Henry  Bolte who visited Tokyo. The Japanese were so confused as to who was the Prime Minister of Australia at that time that the emperor gave him an audience as the Premier of Australia. Well, perhaps he was. But the confusion was supreme. The Japanese at that time favoured dealing with either British or American corporations because at least they knew what they were about. They knew what they were talking about and what their interests were. But when the Japanese got a gaggle of petty provinces from Australia going up to talk to them they thought: 'Who are these people?' Obviously, they recognised the inadequacies of our situation when they gave  Sir Henry  Bolte the accolade of being the Prime Minister of Australia at the time. Perhaps he was; even I was confused at that stage. 
What I wanted to point out is that in the barren rhetoric that we have heard from the Opposition in this debate - and I was disappointed in it - we have had no recognition that in 1973, whether we like it or not, Australia is a new nation. Shortly, half the population will be under 25 years of age. There are 3 million new people since World War II and their sons, daughters and grandchildren which means that those who were alive at the time of World War II are now in the minority in Australia. We have a job of building a new national unity based on citizenship and our heritage and on some pride in Australia as an independent nation. I am disappointed that there has been no reference in this debate to citizenship. We had a Bill in this House not so long ago, which went to the Senate, designed to wipe out discrimination in citizenship. Under the old system, people were granted citizenship on the basis of a residential period of 5 years, 3 years or 1 year, depending upon what colour they were or what was their race or religion. We decided to wipe that provision. 
In reply to the honourable member I might say that he has given distinguished service as a member of the Immigration Advisory Council and I am very pleased to have a question from him on a matter which obviously interests him and most other members of the Parliament. 
An answer shall be relevant  to  the question. 
I ask you, sir, whether this answer is relevant to the question. If you hold that it is inconsistent with present practice I will ask you to submit your interpretation of standing order 145 to the House of Representatives Standing Orders Committee. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The right honourable member for Lowe is referring to an answer I was about to give. I have not given it yet so I cannot see how he can take exception to it. When I was interrupted by the right honourable member for Lowe I was about to say that the article in the 'Financial Review' to which my attention has been drawn and which has been referred to by the honourable member for Bowman does pose a series of serious criticisms about the teaching of English to migrants over the last quarter of a century. I want to say that some of the criticisms are quite valid. I am concerned that the program has not been as successful or as efficacious as it ought to have been. I do not accept all of the points made in that article but I do say that it is time for new initiatives. 
One of the new initiatives to which I am giving consideration is the awarding of integration fellowships for people who speak English- teachers, actuallyand who come from major countries of migration, in order to give an opportunity to those people to come as fellows to Australian schools, or as additional staff members. They would be able to bring something of the background of migrants not only to migrant children here but also to our own children in the schools. This would broaden the whole of the system of teaching English and also bring integration into the schools from all points of view, the point of view of the Australain child as well as the migrant child. This, I think, would give some better pointers to some of the sins of omission, if you like, that we have been guilty of, perhaps through ignorance or perhaps because we have not had the proper appreciation of this problem. But after 25 years it is time that we got the experience, recognised the problem and took some new initiatives. I hope to take that initiative I referred to as one of the new initiatives in relation to this matter. I may say also that when some honourable members take an interest in this subject that is no reason to denigrate them. I commend all honourable members on all sides of the House who have taken some interest in the problem of the settlement of people who have been brought here over a period of a quarter of a century. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to (1) is 'No'. 
The answer to (2) is 'See answer to (1)'. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a charge on meat exported from Australia in order to recoup the cost to the Government of export meat inspection. The charge will be payable by exporters. Exports of meat and meat products which have been inspected and declared fit for human consumption will be subject to the charge. The charge will be 1.6c per lb on meat and edible offals derived from cattle (including buffaloes) and calves, and lc per lb on meat and edible offals derived from sheep, lambs, goats and pigs. The charge is to be imposed on those meats and offals whether exported in fresh, chilled, frozen, canned, dried or otherwise prepared form and on mixtures of meat with other food products. For products containing mixtures of meat and other food products the charge will be payable on the net weight of the mixed product. For mixed products containing beef or veal the charge will be 1.6c per lb and for mixed products containing other meats the charge will be lc per lb. The legislation provides for the charge to operate for a period of 33 months from 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976. The charge has been calculated on the basis of the estimated expenditure of export meat inspection over the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1976, and the estimated quantity of meat that will be exported over the 33 month period. 
The legislation provides for regulations to be made permitting total or partial exemption from the charge. The major part of the cost of export meat inspection has been met from Consolidated Revenue since 1927 and it has become a large item of expenditure in the Budget. The measure was originally introduced to offset low export prices and has been maintained ever since. This is in contrast to the present situation in which world demand for meat is particularly strong and prices are at high levels. The cost of export meat inspection has grown rapidly in recent years, rising from $5.3m in 1968-69 to $11.4m in 1972-73. A significant part of this increase can be attributed to the need to expand the inspection staff to meet requirements of overseas countries. In this regard it is to be noted that over the period December 1969 to June 1973 the number of veterinarians and meat inspectors in export establishments has increased from 1,128 to 1,726. 
It should also be noted that, in effect, overseas consumers have been subsidised from Consolidated Revenue. Furthermore, local consumers bear the cost of meat inspected for local consumption as State authorities impose inspection fees on wholesalers in respect of meat destined for the local market. It is emphasised that the export charge is not intended to be a means of diverting supplies of meat from the export to the domestic market. Currently there is a very strong export demand for Australian meat and in these circumstances it is not expected that the charge will be passed back to the livestock producer. Clearly there is every justification for charging for the export inspection service instead of perpetuating the position of the overseas consumer being subsidised from Consolidated Revenue. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, which is complemen  tary to the Meat Export Charge Bill 1973, is to provide the machinery necessary for the collection of the export charge imposed by the Meat Export Charge Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the Act to come into operation on the same day as the Meat Export Charge Act. It defines the types of meat and meat products subject to the charge which will be payable within 28 days after the end of the month in which the meat is exported. Provision has been made for remissions or refunds of the charge should the meat be condemned or rejected for human consumption. The remaining provisions of the Bill are related to the administrative procedures necessary to collect the charge. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I believe that  Sir Robert  Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, did make a statement to the effect that neither- he nor the New South Wales Government had the power to stop citizens from leaving Australia. That is true. I believe that some reference was made - I am not sure whether the Premier made the statement himself - to the fact that no attempt was made to stop Alexander Barton leaving Australia. I might say that no request was received by the Australian Department of Immigration to prevent the departure of this man, and certainly no request was received from the Government of New South Wales. 
The honourable member asks whether if any request is made it will be considered. The entitlement of Australian citizens to passports is a basic right. If they are ever to be withheld it must be on the basis of information from very responsible authorities relating to crime and/ or the security of the nation. If we received a considered request from the head of a State government, for example, for action on these lines we would give it every consideration. If criminality was involved, of course we would give the fullest possible cooperation whenever we were asked. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1924-1966, I present the forty-ninth annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965-1966, I present the eighth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 I move: 
That the House of Representatives does not insist on its amendment made in place of the amendment of the Senate to clause 19 of the Bill and agrees to the original amendment made by the Senate to that clause. 
The purpose of the Australian Citizenship Bill is to wipe out racial and other discriminations in the granting of Australian citizenship. The existing procedures create first, second and third class citizens. The whole thrust of the Bill, the whole purpose of the Bill, is to create one citizenship, one criterion, one oath and one allegiance. For months now the Senate Opposition has frustrated these high objectives. On 2 occasions it has used specious and, as was the case last night, almost ludicrous excuses to hold up this Bill. The level of some of the excuses put forward in the Senate yesterday can be gauged by the fact that there was some reference to the constitutionality of the Bill, presumably in relation to the royal title, which seems to be extraordinary in view of the fact that the monarch herself has indicated her acceptance and enthusiasm for a revision of the title which she anticipates proclaiming on her forthcoming visit. That seems to be a most specious and ludicrous excuse. Nevertheless, the Bill was again rejected on these very narrow and inadequate grounds. The Senate is aware that this Bill wipes out discrimination. The Opposition has not dared to oppose these high principles. As a matter of fact, it seemed to me during the whole of the debate that some members of the Opposition were proposing a toast rather than giving attention to an oath. But by their deeds you shall know legislators as well as other people and the Opposition in another place twice rejected the Bill. 
After the first occasion the Government, anxious to put Australian citizenship on a new pedestal and to give Australian citizenship a new significance, willingly compromised in relation to the form of the oath. We did this despite the fact that 71 per cent of all those Australians who were asked wanted to swear allegiance to the Australian Constitution. The expressed wishes of 71 per cent of all Australians who were asked have been rejected by the Opposition. More than that, the Opposition has callously and hurtfully re-inserted the form of renunciation which means that applicants for citizenship are required to mouth the meaningless form of renunciation although the Opposition knows as well as we in government know that legally the words have no significance. All they do is to cause hurt and all they can do is to confuse. But for obscure reasons of its own the Opposition has insisted on this course of action. Imagine the confusion of an Englishman who arrives in Australia, settles, successfully, enthusiastically applies for citizenship and finds himself solemnly renouncing all allegiance to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain just before taking an oath of allegiance to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of Australia. 
Of course. It is a clumsy and unnecessary procedure. It is not the Gov ernment's choice and it is not the Government's intention. I give notice that the Government will as soon as possible legislate to abolish the meaningless and hurtful renunciation and that the Australian citizen in future will take the following oath - as is proposed in the Australian Citizenship Bill as it was originally brought before this House: I...... swear by Almighty God that I will faithfully uphold the Constitution of Australia, observe the laws of Australia and fulfil my duties as an Australian citizen.' This is what the overwhelming majority of the Australian people want. Of the people who were asked in a poll which was held recently 71 per cent expressed that wish. We are faced in the Senate with rule by the minority against the expressed will of the majority. Recognising this, to save Australia from further embarrassment as a nation which has discriminatory citizenship, and to bring some justice to migrants, to rescue the Bill from a Senate pigeon-hole - now a deep well for all sorts of things which have been irresponsibly rejected - this Government reluctantly accepts the Senate amendment and  1  commend the motion that I have moved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a letter dated 7 March 1973 the Minister for Foreign Affairs formally notified the Director of ICEM of Australia's intention to withdraw from 
ICEM membership on 31 December 1973. The Director of ICEM subsequently advised all member governments. 
The Government considered that with the changing pattern of immigration into Australia and the Government's own initiatives in immigration policy giving priority to family reunion and sponsored' migration it should attain self-sufficiency in respect of movement of migrants and that it was no longer appropriate for Australia to remain a member of ICEM. &lt;3) The decision was taken after consultation between the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Immigration. 
No. The decision was one for the Australian Government. Those member governments from whose countries migrants chiefly came were informed of the decision coincidentally with notification to the Director of ICEM. 
I am not aware of any such interpretation. Withdrawal from ICEM will not impede Australia's capacity to provide resettlement opportunities for refugees. We have informed the Director of ICEM that following withdrawal Australia will give sympathetic consideration to any request made by ICEM for the resettlement of refugees for which that organisation may be responsible in future, including the provision of assisted passages where appropriate. 
Moreover, Australia will continue to play an active role as a member of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. It will also retain its association with the principal voluntary agencies in Australia whose counterparts in Europe have been deeply involved in refugee resettlement. 
and (7) ICEM's accounting is on a calendar year basis. Its financial transactions are in U.S. dollars. Australian contributions for 1972 were: 
Administrative Budget SUS28 1,211, percentage 9.8. 
Operational Budget $US3,889,675, percentage 24.2. 
Total Australian Contribution $US4,170,886. 
This course would presumably have been open to us but withdrawal from membership was considered the appropriate course for the reasons described in the reply to (2) above. 
ICEM's potential in this context is recognised but changing circumstances in Europe have altered its relevance to Australia. &lt;10) No. Correspondence passed between the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and  Mr John  F. Thomas, Director of the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration is relevant to the Honourable Member's questions. I attach copies of that correspondence. 
I recognise and acknowledge the continuing and deep interest of the honourable member for Moore in the wheat industry. He referred to the quota system which was introduced in the period of the last 
Administration. It is very interesting to acknowledge what he said about the state of wheat stocks in Australia at the present time and the harvest potential. Because the last Administration spent a great deal of time rationing wheat growers, we now have the task of rationing customers. The situation is, of course, one of shortage. There is every indication that the expected acreage will not be completely sown and that the harvest will not be as we would wish, on either a national basis or even a State basis. I am pleased to hear that Western Australia is doing particularly well. That is welcome news. At the same time, there is every indication that the national target, if one likes to put it in those terms, that the Minister for Primary Industry set will not be reached and that we will have a situation of shortage. 
I agree entirely that we should be looking at this quota system which we have inherited. From my own knowledge, even in my own area young men - farmers' sons and new growers - have established acreages of wheat and have no quotas for them. It is an incredible situation in a time of shortage. The matter has been timely raised, and I certainly shall refer it to the Minister for Primary Industry who, I know, was most anxious in the first year of his administration to see that every encouragement - not discouragement - was given to production. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the question: 
The Minister is aware that some areas in Western Australia do experience difficulties in providing sufficient regular water supplied for livestock in some seasons. 
The amounts that were offered to the States for projects under the National Water Resources Development Program, 1967-72, and the actual amounts paid to the States to June 30, 1972 under the Program were: 
It is true that in the past there have been delays in dealing with the volume of passport applications, which has grown tremendously in recent years. As a matter of fact, the honourable member is from Brisbane and it is interesting to note that the largest increase in applications by people wishing to leave Australia recently has come from Brisbane. There has been a 41 per cent increase, which is .the highest increase in applications in the Commonwealth. 
Actually, those figures were for the last calendar year. I hope that those people will all return, of course. But, more seriously, I point out that each year there are movements in 'and out of Australia of the order of 1 million people leaving the country and 1.1 million people entering the country. The number of passports now being issued is of the order of 230,000 a year. As to the delays, I have set up some special task force groups that have gone into offices in order to help to streamline procedures. I am pleased to report that, over the whole of Australia, passports are being issued more quickly now than at any time in the past, despite the increased volume of applications. In fact, the average time taken in all of the 11 centres from which passports are issued is 3 days. If any specific delays are still occurring from time to time, then if the honourable member draws my attention to them we will have them rectified. 
I have not seen any published allegations of the sale of diseased meat but I understand that such allegations have been published because they have been mentioned by a number of honourable members and also by a number of people interested in both the production and consumption of meat. As far as the Australian Government is concerned, the highest possible inspection standards are maintained and there is certainly no slackening of those standards in any shape or form. Meat to be sold for domestic consumption is inspected by State authorities and in some cases by local government authorities. Far from the inspections being slack, the allegation in recent times has been that they have been too tough. When I listened to the honourable member's question my reaction was to answer very briefly, using one word to describe a product of one of the beef animals. However, I resisted that temptation in order specifically to draw attention to the fact that inspection standards of Australian meat for sale at home and abroad are among the highest in the world. The allegations may have arisen because from time to time carcasses that have been delivered have had diseased elements which have been cut out and then the rest of the carcass is used, but the utilisation is carried out under the most stringent conditions and inspections. I refute completely any suggestion that there has been a breakdown or acts of irresponsibility by any authority concerned right through in the handling of meat from producers for sale at home or abroad. 
We have been concerned that there has been an over-concentration of new arrivals particularly in Sydney and Melbourne and in the inner city areas. It certainly is not our intention in the future to pour in an unplanned way people into inner city areas which are already overcrowded. I have already had some discussions through the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council with  Mr L.  J. Mooney who is the  President  of the Australian Council of Local Government Association and through him and with his co-operation the Association is at the present time carrying out a survey of all local government bodies with a view to ascertaining what their needs are, what their desires are and how we can help in the supply of migrants or, if you like, the diversion of settlers from these inner city areas. We have also been looking at a new initiative. It would be a new initiative for us but it has been for some time practised in the United States. This new initiative involves providing facilities for representatives of individual communities in the countryside to go to areas where there is perhaps a chain migration already in being, to invite people to join them specifically in those areas, in those districts, in those towns or, if you like, in those valleys. The important thing here would be to extend a direct hand to people overseas from one community to another, from one group to another or from one location to another rather than just to invite people into the whole of the continent and hope to goodness they will find a place. I think it is an initiative we could well follow up. I assure the honourable member for Hume that if he has centres which are interested we will be delighted to hear from them, 
 Mr Speaker,  it is true that we suspended for some months what were known as employer nominations because we wanted to review the precise conditions under which people would be invited to come to Australia to work for specific firms. In recent months a number of firms have come forward with specific requests for numbers of workers in their industries. At the Immigration Planning Council I took the view that it would be desirable for these major corporations to put together their views, to indicate the sort of people that they wanted, where they thought these people would be available, where they thought these people should come from or should be available and the sorts of conditions that they were offering not only in terms of wages but also in terms of their accommodation. I am still awaiting from the Immigration Planning Council the details of the general picture from the spread of corporations. 
In the meantime, in close consultation with my colleague the Minister for Labour, we had a specific look at the proposal put forward by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. It has done two or three things which qualify it for the exploration of this kind of facility. The first thing that it has agreed to ensure is that there is accommodation available and that people are not just brought in or invited in on speculation. More than that, the company has also indicated that it will continue to stress workshop classes in English and citizenship, which I regard as being of paramount importance if we do not intend to tie migrant workers to their benches in an inexcusable and unacceptable way. So it has met criteria of this sort. Because it did so and because it was willing to co-operate - in fact, it enthusiastically offered to co-operate in this way - the facility has been extended. Whether the company will be successful in this form of attraction remains to be seen. But certainly my department will give them all the help and assistance that it can, bearing in mind that the basic criteria that we want to see adopted by all corporations have been met in this instance by BHP. 
The amendment springs from the same dishonesty of intent by the Opposition in this matter as has exemplified the entire debate. There have been 6 speakers from the Opposition; there have been 2 from the Government. The Opposition has been completely dishonest in its entire approach. It did not oppose the measure. It does not really oppose the measure but it is using it as a vehicle for propaganda. A major statement of policy in this matter was made by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech of 21 August. This is what he said: 
The Government has also decided to recoup from the beef industry the expenditure incurred in the campaign to eradicate bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. 
The amount to be recouped in 1973-74 will be approximately $6m. Details will be announced by the Minister for Primary Industry in due course. 
Actually the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  took the opportunity to make the announcement. He made it himself, not the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  because he thought it was a very important matter. So the major policy statement has been made. It is a simple story. But of course when we listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  when he opened the proceedings this evening on this measure, we heard him debase the currency of protest. As a matter of fact, he and his colleagues in the last 6 months have probably told more untruths than Ananias and he was put out of hell for telling lies. We have heard every day, in relation not only to this amendment but also to every other matter before the Parliament honourable members of the Country Party cry wolf. But of course when we go into the countryside and look at the change this year compared with last year we find that their wolves are miserable, scrawny pussycats without much substance or stomach. So the honourable member for New England debased the currency of the debate tonight with terms like 'imbecile' and other terms of endearment. 
I am coming back exactly to this amendment because it is associated with the arithmetic which was put forward earlier and the arithmetic is as false as the intention. Let me just deal precisely with the arithmetic of this Bill, which incidentally is designed, as we announced and as was very clearly stated, to recoup to the Government the cost of meat export inspections and also, of course, the expenditure on the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns. I have just indicated when it was said and where it was said. I cannot help it if the members of the Opposition are both deaf and dumb in remarkable combination. 
I am grateful for the intervention of the Chair because there has been irresponsibility tonight. I want to point out that the charge of lc per lb to recoup meat inspection costs was calculated on the following basis: Estimates were made for each of the years from 1973-74 to 1975-76 of meat inspection costs and of meat export levels and shipped weight. Annual averages of these figures were calculated with an estimated total cost over the 3 years of $57.2m. The average cost of meat inspection was estimated at $19m a year. Meat exports were estimated at 5,960 million lb for 1973-74 to 1975-6 or an average of 1,987 million lb a year. As the charge was to operate from 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976 it was necessary to recover inspection costs for the full 3 years - 36 months - by a charge on meat exports over the 33 months. 
Hence, to calculate a unit charge the total meat inspection cost for 3 full years was divided by the estimated volume of meat exports over 33 months. This calculation resulted in the lc per lb charge. The 0.6c per lb charge on beef and veal exports to recoup Government expenditure on the campaign for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis over the 3 years 1973-74 to 1975-76 was calculated in a similar way to meat inspection charges. This time the cost of $21. 9m for the campaign in 3 full years - that is, 36 months - was divided by the estimated volume of beef and veal exports in the 33-month period. The resulting figure was 0.6c per lb. The export charge on meat to recover the expenditure by the Government on inspecting meat and eradicating disease from livestock represents a charge for the service. The charge is imposed on the exporter. Accordingly, it becomes a part of his normal costs of exporting, the sum total of which he has to take into account when negotiating prices with his overseas customers. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  referred to the fact that he had had many telephone calls from companies who were wondering where they stood. I hope that he will be able to explain the position. I have had, I might say, rather more concern for the producers who in the past were not done the honour of having services provided for which there was to be a complete utilisation of money and complete accountability. 
I pointed out in my second reading speech: 
The cost of export meat inspection has grown rapidly in recent years rising from $5. 3m in 1968-69 to $11.4m in 1972-73. A significant part of this increase can be attributed to the need to expand the inspection staff to meet requirements of overseas countries. 
This matter was canvassed particularly well, I thought, by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  I might say that a point was made also - it was quite a valid one - by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  who referred to duplications of the service. But let us be quite clear - members of the Committee should understand this - that overseas consumers, not Australian consumers, have been subsidised from Consolidated Revenue. 
I would draw attention to the fact again that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget speech indicated that there would be a charge on the export of meats to recoup from the meat industry the substantial expenditure incurred by the Government for the benefit of the industry on export meat inspection services. In the next paragraph the Treasurer said that from 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976 the charge will be lc per lb on meat exports. He said the charge is expected to yield $14m in 1973-74. He went on to say: 
In addition the Government has also decided to recoup from the beef industry the expenditure incurred in the campaign to eradicate bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. The amount to be recouped in 1973-74 will be approximately $6m. Details will be announced by the Minister for Primary Industry in due course. 
Those details were announced by the Prime Miinster  (Mr Whitlam)  instead. It seems to me that the whole complaint tonight is that the Prime Minister of Australia made the announcement instead of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  I have not heard any complaints from the Minister for Primary Industry. Obviously, if an announcement is to be made that is of sufficient importance the Prime Minister should make it. That is a very satisfactory position. 
I might say again that an underlying suggestion has been made about the facts which I have given. The facts were quite precise, there is no difficulty about them. If the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  will apply himself and leave his abuse outside the chamber he will see that the facts and figures are correct. I wish to make the point also that the revenue which will be raised by the charge and the expenditures on the export meat inspection and the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign will be shown in the annual estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. All honourable members will have the opportunity to examine these estimates each year when they are presented to the House. That is the entire purpose of the exercise. They are service charges. The Opposition has agreed to them. It now has an argument with the Prime Minister on this matter. But behind all the smokescreen of abuse at the present time, all that we have left of the great roar that began the debate is a pitiful whimper. I suggest that it was a very poor way in which to debate a measure which is designed to assist a great industry in the long term - and there is no doubt about that - and also a service which is supported by the industry itself. These charges are understood by the industry. AH that we have heard tonight has been a scramble of propaganda, and not very strong propaganda at that. We reject the amendment. The intention was clear. The explanations are detailed, and if they are not able to be understood by the honourable member for New England who is sitting at the table, then I suggest that he should go home to bed and do his homework. 
in reply - The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  - 
No he was not. 
MrDrummond - I was on my feet. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I draw your attention to the fact that there have been 5 Opposition speakers and only 2 Government speakers. Under the rules and forms of this Parliament it is certain that-- 
I have not finished. Contain yourself. I am taking a point of order. I rose before the honourable member for Forrest. According to the rules and forms of this House it was the turn of a  speaker  from this side of the chamber. There have been 5 speakers in succession from the Opposition side of the chamber. I submit that I was called and I should, in fact, have the right to speak at this time. 
There have been 5 speakers from the Opposition and 2 from the Government side. This is unprecedented. I suggest in justice-- 
MrDRUMMOND (Forrest) (9.49) -  Mr Deputy Speaker-- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That  the  question  be  now put. 
That  the  question  be  now put. 
The House will divide. (The bells being rung) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Centralised statistics on visa applications are not maintained by my Department. 
 The answer to the honourable members's question is as follows: 
Statistics in the form sought are not available. However, during the period 1 January 1973 to 5 September, 1973, 122 applications for right of residence in Australia were received, of which 92 have been approved and 30 are still being considered. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All cases are reviewed on a non-discriminatory basis, regardless of race or colour of skin or nationality. 
Apart from sponsored dependent family members, for whom the only criteria are health and character, each case is assessed on review on the basis of: economic viability personal qualities which would enable them to fit into the Australian community medical fitness character, and their sincere intention of making a permanent home in Australia and becoming an Australian citizen. 
The possession of qualifications or skills recognised in Australia which would meet a national or community need is also taken into account. 
Of course the situation is that the wheat stabilisation scheme which has operated very successfully over a whole generation was introduced by a Labor Government. I might also say that the Australian wheat industry, through its Federation and the Australian Wheat Board, is at present examining in concert with the Minister for Primary Industry the matter of the re-negotiation of that wheat stabilisation scheme. These discussions are going ahead. When the honourable member refers to the health and state of the Australian wheat industry I think that he would be well advised to have a look at the actions of his own Administration which caused widespread hardship in recent years. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
 I think I can take it from what the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has said that what he is concerned about is that the money collected for the purposes which were referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech of 21 August and which were the subject of an announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as promised, is in fact applied to those purposes. That is a very valid concern. I will not repeat the detail contained in my statement on the previous measure but it gave the arithmetic of the collection and also indicated that in relation to both export meat inspections and the campaign to eradicate bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis there had been an analysis made by the Department of Primary Industry of what was required and it was given to us in precise terms. The arithmetic has been precisely established and validated in the contribution I made in Committee on the other measure last night. If there is a doubt in the mind of anyone at this time as to what the intention is it is very proper that it should be dealt with and overcome because if there is any valid objection at this stage to this measure it is that there is more money to be collected than would be required. That is the first doubt. The second is whether we require this amount of money at this stage. 
There are 2 questions here. Is our arithmetic correct and, if it is not, would the excess be applied for the purposes that have been indicated by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister? The arrangements that have been made and the agreements which have been reached on this matter - we have discussed this with influential sections of the industry and they are very keen to see that the fullest and highest standard of inspection procedures should prevail - have revealed that there is unanimity across the nation that we should continue our campaign to eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis. There has been agreement on all these things. I believe that there has also been agreement that the money which is required should be properly found and in relation to inspections for overseas purposes this money will not come from producers. I will come back to that in a moment. In reply to the amendments moved and to the doubt that has been expressed, I say that if there is any surplus in collection we will ensure that that surplus is applied in the succeeding year to the purposes for which it was collected. 
I want to refute the suggestion, which if it has not been made in words has certainly been implied, that this is in the nature of a tax. It is not a tax. It is a service charge levied in the same way as State authorities and municipal and local government authorities make inspection charges in relation to meat which is sold on the home market. It is a perfectly proper procedure. It has been accepted for a very long time. What is intended is to ensure that the charges which accrue, particularly in relation to meat exports, are met by the exporters. I mention again very carefully and precisely that the revenue to be raised by this charge and the expenditure to be made on export meat inspection and on the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns will be shown in the annual estimates of the Department of Primary Industry. This means that the whole of the Parliament and all honourable members concerned will have the fullest detail available to them in respect of the expenditure of the money collected for these purposes. If there is a surplus they are perfectly entitled to say that that money will be applied to the purposes for which it was raised. That is a perfectly valid proposition. It has been raised by the Opposition but it has also been made to me by Government supporters. I give an unequivocal assurance that this is a service charge and not a tax in any shape or form. It is simply a service charge. 
In the annual estimates of the Department of Primary Industry the full sum will be shown as will the full expenditure and the Parliament will have it under its eyes for the fullest and clearest possible scrutiny. It will be open to honourable members on the Government and Opposition sides to see that the money that has been collected, as a service charge and not as a tax - there is nothing to do with taxes in this Bill at all - will be applied to the purposes for which it is collected, that is, both to the inspection sphere and to the national campaign to eradicate bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. The impetus for this campaign has come from the producers themselves. It is a very commendable campaign because it places the industry on a better basis. A better job will be done for the industry and the nation. Because of the clear procedures which have been adopted and because of the inbuilt safeguards of this Parliament, I suggest that the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England is superfluous and on behalf of the Government I reject it. 
 I think it is pretty important to put the Committee right. I understand that the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  has made a political plea again in relation to another matter totally unconnected with this Bill. I also understand that he criticised the way that the announcement was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  instead of by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  That is an abstract matter which I cannot quite understand. But the main thing is that the honourable member for New England seems to be prepared to say: 'Look, I am not terribly interested in brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication. I am more interested in scoring a political point.' I really feel that this is not in the interests of the industry. I want to address myself to this matter without dealing with any of the Party political propaganda issues in which the honourable member has involved himself. I am sorry about this. I just want to confine myself to one part of his statement. I would ask him please to consider it. 
The honourable member used a set of figures which he indicated came from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Then he gave the impression that the Department of Primary Industry had a different set of figures. A former Minister should know better. The Department of Primary Industry and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics are inextricably mixed. The Bureau is a part of the Department of Primary Industry. It is the Department which comes up with the combined submissions in technicalities and in matters of fact. I think this is a silly exercise. It really does not help the Committee. I would just draw attention to the fact that the honourable member has based his entire case on the arithmetic of a wrong set of figures. I will now explain them. The figures used by the honour able member for New England are in carcass weight equivalent. The charges are imposed on the shipped weight. That is, less bones and so on. Consequently the calculations by the honourable member overstates the collections. That is the position. All I want to say is- 
I know that the honourable member for New England referred last night as an example to the export of spaghetti. I just want to put this to honourable members opposite: We have a situation in which there is an export inspection cost. I point out that when meat is sold on the home market the consumer, the Australian consumer, the Australian housewife bears that inspection cost. What I am pointing out is that what we are putting forward- 
May I finish my contribution? This is the Committee stage of the Bill. We have finished the party political propaganda. 
I have just given the honourable member the correction to his arithmetic. He should acknowledge it instead of sitting there and interrupting. As I was saying before I was interrupted, we find a peculiar circumstance whereby the Australian family who buys meat on the home market is charged but the purchaser overseas - or the exporter - does not have to pay a service charge. That is all that is involved. There have been references to a tax. I refute again that we are discussing any sort of tax. We are talking about service charges. 
As far as I am concerned the Bill comes in- 
Let me answer that. I listened to the interjection respectfully. 
I want to make it quite plain that this Meat Export Charge Bill and the Meat Export Charge Collection Bill come down in accordance with statements by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the Budget Speech on 21 August and also that they came down against an announcement by the Prime Minister. That is the basis of this legislation. If there are other matters that concern any honourable members I will be the first to want them to be debated on their merits, quite apart from these service charges. I sincerely ask the Committee to divorce these matters because the only matter that is before it is that of service charges in respect of an important industry. I gathered from the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  when he was speaking yesterday by way of interjection that he said - he can correct me as I say this if I am wrong - that the Opposition did not oppose the principle of service charges being imposed. 
I thank the honourable member. I think,  Mr Chairman,  that you will agree with me that yesterday the honourable member for New England indicated that there was no agreement on anything anywhere at any time. We had to wait until the vote was taken to see what was the real intention of the Opposition. I say again to the Committee that we are dealing exclusively - this is on record now - with these service charges. If there are any other matters to come before the Parliament or the Committee, they will come separately and will be dealt with on their merits. At this time, so far as the 'Government is concerned there is nothing before the Government, nothing before the Cabinet and nothing before the Parliament. 
It would have to be a completely separate submission. I appeal to the Committee at this stage to accept the principle of service charges as it has been accepted by the honourable member for Corangamite. I give my clear assurance that at the end of the year in the papers associated with and relevant to the 'Department of Primary Industry these service charges will be set forth. If, in fact, the 'Department has over-estimated, that figure will be shown. In fact, it would be in accordance with the Government's attitude that any over-estimate should be considered the following year in relation to the charges. Again I come back to the fact that we are talking about service charges. 
I am talking about service charges in relation to 2 matters, inspections and the campaign to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis. 
I have been very patient, but for the last time - I do not intend to rise again in Committee on this matter - I refer the Opposition to the Budget Speech delivered on 21 August by the Treasurer in which he set these things out clearly. I also refer honourable members to the announcement of the Prime Minister as was promised by the Treasurer. It is clear and definite. If honourable members opposite are not interested in the service charges, in the campaign to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis or in a proper basis of inspection, let them vote against this proposal. I think it is about time the Committee had less humbug and more action. 
 The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  has raised a specific point that deserves an answer. He said that because of the way in which the Bill has been drawn it would be unconstitutional to apportion the money as has been indicated by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  I have taken advice on this matter and I refer the honourable member to the actual wording of the measure which states: 
Subject to this Act, a charge is imposed on meat that is exported from Australia for human consumption, being meat that is so exported on or after the date of commencement of this Act and before 1 July 1976. 
The Act then goes on to specify that it does not inhibit the Australian Government from so apportioning the money for the service charges as was mentioned by the Treasurer, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry. That is the constitutional position. The safeguard to that is, as I said before, the consideration of the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry which will be examined with other estimates. Honourable members will be able to see that the undertakings given by the Government and all the relevant Ministers of government in relation to a service charge are in fact followed. But constitutionally in the way the Bill is drawn and the way the Act will stand there is no bar to the disbursement of the funds along the lines that I have indicated on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has rephrased his original proposition to the Committee in relation to his doubts about the application of the service charge for the services provided. I think it would be helpful to the Committee if I dealt with the question of the figures and of the arithmetic behind them. I accept that the honourable member put them forward in good faith. In my experience all honourable members when they rise in their places - whether they are right or wrong - put forward matters in the genera! way in good faith. But, in fact, the figues mentioned by the honourable member for New England as originating from the submission of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its submission to what is known as the Joint Committee on Prices are not figures for which the BAE claims any responsibility. 
I do not know anything about the report of the Joint Committee on Prices. Indeed, quite properly, I have not seen its report. I do not know what happened in the Joint Committee on Prices. I might just say in passing - I do not relate this to the honourable member for New England, who is at the table - that it would be improper for me to be acquainted with the report of the Joint Committee on Prices because that Committee has not tabled its report in this Parliament, and so all matters associated with that report are privileged. I understand that there has been some speculation on this report and I believe that there has even been an allegation of a leak in relation to the Committee's recommendations. I am advised by the Clerks of the Parliament that if any honourable member were guilty of such a breach of privilege, the penalty could be expulsion from the Parliament, so I would hope that that did not occur. 
Far be it for me to comment on the Joint Committee on Prices or on its recommendations, such as they may be. I look forward to listening to them tomorrow and, after I have heard them and studied the report, I will make up my mind, as will the members of the Government and members of the Opposition. But so far we have not seen that report. It has not been tabled. I understand that it will be tabled tomorrow and until that time all that happened in relation to that report is privileged. I say again that anyone who was guilty of a gross breach of faith in leaking information from the Committee would be guilty of a breach of privilege and I am told that, from the history of this Parliament, the penalty of such a breach is expulsion from the Parliament. I do not think that that would be too great a penalty for a breach of that sort. 
I should like to return to the substance of the statement made by the honourable member for New England and to the figures which he presented. From my inquiries, I have been assured that the  Bureau  of Agricultural 
Economics has not formulated for any tribunal or aynbody else the figures attributed to it. The figures which have been presented by me to the Committee as the consolidated figures that represent all the expertise and dedication of the officers of the Department of Primary Industry, including the officers of the BAE, are the only figures that have come forth, and we based the calculations for a service charge on those figures. So, the suggestion that there is some sort of argument between the Department of Primary Industry and one of its component parts, the BAE, is of course a fiction. That is all there is to it; there is no difference at all. 
I invite honourable members of the Committee to research the figures on the basis of - bear this in mind - boned out and total production. They will find that the figures I have presented on behalf of the Government, based on research of the Department of Primary Industry, including the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, bear out that calculation. So, I stand by the figures. However, it is still perfectly proper for the Opposition to put forward the query; I have no quarrel with that. I should just like to say in reply that the authority of the Parliament in these matters surely is paramount. The Parliament controls allocations and expenditure and the purposes for which they are collected are controlled. One honourable member whose name I cannot remember said: 'What will the money be spent on?' For the benefit and elucidation of that honourable member, I inform the Committee that the Auditor-General stringently polices all the expenditure which is approved by the Parliament of the nation and if it is not properly expended in accordance with the Act, a very serious report is made which would reflect on the Minister, the department and the Government. Therefore, the authority of the Parliament in these matters is supreme, is paramount. 
Indeed, the scrutiny of the Parliament is paramount in these matters and, of course, the total details of the expenditure and the purposes for which it has been appropriated will be under the scrutiny of the AuditorGeneral of the nation and the Parliament, sitting as a whole or as a committee. So, I feel that the built-in safeguards of our Parliament are more important than any mere detail that has been proposed by the Opposition in the amendment now before the Committee. 
The honourable member for Wimmera, sitting with the Government on this occasion, has posed a query. It is a very valid query. He asks what would happen if, in the first year about which we are talking - and this is the test year of all our dedications - there were a shortfall. Obviously, of course, if there were a shortfall, it would have to be covered in relation to the Act and the appropriations. If we have miscalculated, obviously we are at fault. The limits are set. I draw the attention of the honourable member for Wimmera to the fact that the limits of the charges are set in this legislation. We have certainly spelled them out. If we are going to come before the Parliament and say: 'We miscalculated', we will have to do this very honestly. We will have to come forward and say: 'We were wrong. We should have collected more'. I say again, for the benefit of the honourable member who posed the query that this would come under the scrutiny and the authority of the Parliament. I think the inbuilt safeguards are totally adequate. We feel that the inbuilt safeguards of the entire Parliament, sitting together or in a committee, are in fact adequate safeguards and we do not feel that the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition is acceptable to us. 
 I rise on 2 counts. First, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  in association, I think, with the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  earlier, made a most reasonable request to which I intend to accede. That request was that the full financing and the detail of that financing should be set out by the Department of Primary Industry under the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and sent to them directly so that there can be in all detail validation of what I have put to the Committee. I think that that was a reasonable request. I have put in train already the acceptance of it. The honourable member for Corangamite and the honourable member for New England will have made available to them those full details so that the argument about arithmetic may be resolved. 
1 think that that is a most reasonable procedure. I see nothing wrong with that proposal at all. As a matter of fact, if it is desired by either honourable member it would be quite an acceptable procedure under the Standing Orders of the national Parliament. I would be happy to see the information placed there as an answer on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I wish to direct myself to a remark that was made by the honourable member for Corangamite in support of the amendment now before the Committee. He said that because of his doubts about the precise accuracy of budgeting he would like a further safeguard written in. I thought that that was a most reasonable proposition. In fact it is not our intention, as I said, to do more in this legislation than to impose a service charge. That is a most reasonable approach. I do feel - perhaps this is where we are differing at this stage - that the scrutiny of the entire Parliament meeting as a parliament or as a Committee of the Whole is an adequate scrutiny, backed by all the resources of the AuditorGeneral who will see to it that there is a proper accounting for every cent that is appropriated and spent under this legislation. I do feel that there is an adequacy of safeguards here on behalf of the producers, the taxpayers and the Parliament which must accept this legislation. 
I suppose that it is almost, but not quite, in the nature of a mortal blow to the honour.ab'e member for Riverina, the Minister for Immigration, to find that I am losing the fatherly advice of the 'modest member'. It did come as a surprise. May I say that I have no intention of cancelling my subscription to the Australian 'Financial Review'. I think that I shall continue that subscription. Therefore, I am sure that I will get the continuing benefit of his exposure in public. He did say that perhaps the whole matter was not quite right; or not quite sound and therefore asked whether it would not be better to withdraw the legislation. 
I am sorry. Did I misquote the honourable member? 
I am sorry. I did not want to do the honourable member an injustice. I did feel that the honourable member really suggested that perhaps the Bill as a whole was not sound. I must say that if the whole of the Bill were not sound, and if what had been put in the second reading debate and in the Committee stage where we have had a most useful and constructive debate were not sound, obviously the one right thing to do by the Government would be to withdraw the Bill. But in fact I am advised by the best and most competent authorities that the Bill is well drawn, is sound and fits into the objective as enunciated by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Primary Industry. Against that background I must say with sensitivity to some of the motives that have been put forward - in fact I would say all the motives that have been put forward - about safeguards, that the safeguards lie in the Parliament and in its scrutiny. On that basis, I must decline to accept the amendment. 
I enter the debate briefly to say one or two words on behalf not only of my own electorate but also of people in the countryside generally. I draw attention to the fact that we have been faced in recent years with an extraordinary situation in the Riverina and in Farrer, in regard to petrol prices. The incredible situation is that it has been possible if one organised in a particular way to buy petrol at approximately 10c less than the price of petrol to a wholesaler, a retailer or a consumer. We have seen also the spectacle outside our areas in New South Wales, south of the border, where it has been possible to make special arrangements or even to go to a bowser and to buy petrol at 10c a gallon or 15c a gallon less than people are charged in the area in which I live. 
I invite members of the national Parliament to look at the situation at present. In the Australian Capital Territory, thanks to the strong and dedicated action of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  petrol is being' sold at 5c a gallon less than the price at which it is being sold in the Riverina or anywhere else in New South Wales. We see the contrast between the administration in the Australian Capital Territory and the administration in New South Wales. We can see the difference in the prices that we pay. In my view, the action that was taken by the Minister for the Capital Territory was justified in every shape and form. I would hope that those people who are supposed to be interested in rural consumers would show a little more solicitude for the consumer and for the denizens of the countryside than for the mighty international corporations on whose behalf pleas have been made so often by them. 
I wish to make one point in this respect. It is that the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made it plain that the excise that was placed on petrol was an excise which should have been absorbed by the multi-nationals but it was not. I agree with what the honourable member for Farrer said in this respect: The day after the announcement of the increase of excise the price of petrol rose in my electorate and in many others which are under the control of the sovereign government of New South Wales. There was no delay at all. Petrol prices rose immediately. In the Australian Capital Territory, the situation was a little different. But the price of petrol did rise in New South Wales. Of course it did. The price rose across the board by at least 5c a gallon. 
The great and interesting situation is that there were people and specialist groups who could make arrangements to obtain petrol at less than the price" charged to wholesalers for that petrol. We have had the situation with respect to petrol supplies where wholesalers, retailers and those poor people who man the service stations have been disadvantaged. I do not think that situation has been satisfactory in any shape or form. 
The announcement that there will be an inquiry into petroleum prices is in my view a most welcome development. This is something that I have pressed for on behalf of people in my electorate and those living in the countryside generally. It is all very well for members from Victoria to try to interject. They have been going along to bowsers in Victoria even when that petrol purchased was a tax deduction to them and obtaining their petrol at 10c a gallon less than the price at which petrol is available to the people whom I represent. Good luck to them. I do not criticise them. Rut surely they are not going to suggest that that was an equitable arrangement and that it should continue, because it should not continue. 
I believe that the inquiry which we have put under way is long overdue. It should start on the premise that petrol prices across the nation in country areas should be reduced by 5c a gallon now, let us look at a further 5c a gallon reduction later. That is the position that I take. If I have an opportunity to put it to the inquiry, that is what I will put to the inquiry. Voices from members of the Opposition have been raised on behalf of the multinational corporations. Members on the other side of the House rise on behalf of the multinational corporations and say: They should not be penalised. They are poor struggling firms.' These are the greatest international consortia in the world. That is a typical form of defence of those interests by those honourable members. 
I wish to make my position quite clear and I do so on behalf of consumers, wholesalers, retailers and the poor people who are being conned into manning petrol stations. Ask them. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who is trying to interject, can pull up at a petrol pump and obtain petrol at 10c a gallon cheaper than people pay in other States. That is all right in Victoria where a bit of competition exists. If he comes into my area he does not have that choice. But the honourable member is not interested in that aspect today. He says a few words on behalf of the multi-nationals. We know where his heart is but he does not need to give voice to it on all occasions. As far as I am concerned, there is one thing which should be said- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
I want to thank the third most important man opposite for his solicitude for my electors and I want to express appreciation for the question that he' posed. I understand that he received a telegram, as I did myself, this morning, from the General Manager of the Leeton Co-operative Cannery. I am grateful for the question and I will tell him exactly what the position is. The immediate action I took was to refer the query - it was no more than a query at this stage  -  to my colleague the Treasurer and also to my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry. We will examine the submission which has been put forward. Whether or not the worry and concern can be supported by facts is something that we have yet to establish. But I want to make this point, that when the Leader of the Australian Country Party refers to his solicitude for the fruit growers in my electorate and when he refers to keeping faith with the people who are producing, let me draw attention to the fact that in December 1971 the McMahon Administration carried out a revaluation. There was an effective revaluation in May 1972. There was a statement to the effect that some consideration perhaps would be given to providing some assistance. When we took over the administration in 
December 1972 there was no money appropriated, no arrangements had been made by the Treasury and nothing had been done at all. There had been nothing but a public relations charade by the then Government and that was all. 
It is time that a few facts were known. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I noticed from the point of order that the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party took full responsibility for all the decisions in the last rural recession by referring to the McMahonAnthony Government. I hope that that will be noted. I might say that the reference to untruth is completely unworthy - 
I have become used to the abuse from the gentlemen opposite. In the last 48 hours we have heard references to delinquents, imbeciles and now deliberate untruths. If they had not come from a group of gentlemen who were acting like sick cows with the scours - having difficulty containing themselves - I would have been upset. I might say in precise reply, and I repeat what I said earlier because it has been challenged, in relation to the revaluations of the Australian currency carried out by the McMahon-Anthony Administration and despite the protestations they made, when we took over the administration there was nothing for this in the treasury. No arrangements had ever been made to assist growers affected by the revaluation. If honourable members opposite would like to proceed to a further inquisition the Treasurer will be delighted to oblige them with a further exposition. As a matter of fact, the promises which had been made previously to pay growers had been, I might say, welshed on because there was nothing done, and we had to make special arrangements even to see that the growers were paid for fruits for which the indication had been firmly given by the previous administration that they would be paid. So this conversion to the interest of and solicitude for the fruit growers of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area is a bit late but very welcome. I might say that whenever I receive any telegrams which I am confident the Leader of the Country Party has received, I will share them with him so that he can ask me further questions. Let me just sum up by saying that the queries that have been posed by the Leeton Co-operative Cannery and which reached me in the last few hours have been promptly dealt with and will be promptly answered, and I might say that my constituents are enjoying a greater prosperity now in 1973 than they did for 5 years under the McMahon-Anthony administration. 
It is quite right, as the honourable member says, that there is a need to expand production of food and fibre at the present time. When the new administration took office, not only was the bank accommodation zero for many farmers but they were in deep debt. The other point is, of course, that the national cupboard was bare. We were short of a whole range of commodities, and there is a need to increase production to meet the whole range of food and fibre needs of the nation. I have just recently with the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer had a look at credit availability in the rural sector, and it would seem to be about S350m at this point. It is not possible to quantify exactly the amount of unused rural credit, but as at 12 September the major trading banks held Slim in their farm development loan fund accounts, which together with repayments to the funds is available to meet drawings against loan approvals. At the same date in their term loan accounts there was $43m, about a quarter of which would be. available for application in the rural sphere. 
The Reserve Bank also announced in July that it would be arranging to supplement these funds in this month of September. In addition to all this the honourable member for Darling and the House will be interested to know that a large amount of undrawn overdraft approval is available to the rural sector. The latest figures available show that the amount involved is $259m. On top of that, of course, there has been made available by the Government a special fund of S20m to the Commonwealth Development Bank. In addition, under rural assistance, S48m has been made available nationally. I would submit that this is a considerable volume of rural credit at the present time. It does not mean to say that that is the end of the initiatives in this important sector. I have had a special interest in it for a long time, and the Treasurer, the Minister for Primary Industry and I are continuing to look at even further supplements to the figures I have given to the House. 
 I wish to reply, quite briefly, to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  I say very bluntly that a number of questions on this subject have been placed on the notice paper by him. They have been answered in full. He has placed on the notice paper another series of questions on the same matter, and they also will be answered in full. I point out to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that, as this Parliament has already been given a pretty full indication of what has transpired in this matter, by making available in full in Hansard replies to his questions on notice, it is unfair to say that nothing has been before the Parliament on this matter. I think that the matter- 
Let me say that the matter has been raised in a mistaken way by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition because he thought that there was related to it some aspect of which he possibly could take advantage. I think that he is taking a pretty mean advantage in relation to an international organisation which in the past has done a job. Incidentally, his own Government as long ago as 1968 commenced the negotiations for Australia's withdrawal from the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration. Those negotiations have now been carried to a conclusion, after the initial move in 1968. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, himself a former Minister for Immigration, was party to the continuing negotiations. So it is a little late now for him to come along and raise the matter. I have had word from the Director of ICEM in which he says: 
I have no desire to pursue the matter further and consider it should be closed. 
My good advice to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is to recognise that, in pursuing this matter further than ICEM wishes to pursue it, he is doing no service to his country or to ICEM. 
Tonight he has made statements about other governments being concerned about the movement of migrants. No such communication has been received - none whatsoever. 
I might say also that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made a statement which I think ought to be placed on record. He made it in a letter to me and I would like the House to have the benefit of the knowledge of it. I wish to quote from that letter which he wrote to me. I received it on 6 September 1973; it does not seem to bear a date. The letter states in relation to the withdrawal: 
Australia will carry out its recruitment directly and will, as may be readily interpreted by people not favouring such migration, take skilled workers away from European industries and bring them into competing industries in Australia. 
Honourable members will be absolutely astounded. Here is a member of the Opposition who has been claiming that we have to import 200,000 people. He has been saying that we are desperately short of people; that we ought to be making great efforts to bring more in. Then he writes to me and says that if we do this people will think we are actually recruiting migrants. I suggest that the former Minister commune with himself because obviously he is confused. 
I will be happy to do so. It is a copy. The only things that I seem to get in regard to this particular matter are copies of letters. 
Yes. I ask the  Clerk  to hold on to it firmly. 
I received it on 6 September. The letter was undated. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition probably did not get around to the date. I want to say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is not doing a service to ICEM. He is not doing a service to his country. He is not doing a service to anybody. He is causing widespread embarrassment. The last message said that the matter is closed as far as ICEM is concerned. He is trying to keep it alive purely for political purposes. I suggest to him, with some sort of reasonableness, that all he is doing is causing continuing embarrassment to ICEM, to Australia and to everyone else. The matter is closed according to ICEM. May I also say that Australia is honouring its international obligations to refugees because we are associated with the United Nations effort, the major effort in this regard. We have made continuing efforts and we are continuing our efforts. 
We also have said to this organisation that if there is a need in the future, if there is a major movement which requires our help and co-operation, we are always ready to help. We stand by that commitment. Frankly, in view of the words of advice that have been received in this country the matter would be better closed. It was raised by the honourable member's own Government in 1968. It has been brought to a conclusion after all those years. 
I suggest that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will contain himself until the latest question on notice is answered he will have before the Parliament the answers to all his questions. I always make sure that he gets the fullest answers to questions on notice. I will continue to do so. I make a plea to him to desist in what seems to me to be a vendetta.  His  letters, undated, sometimes do not even arrive until he has raised questions about them. All sorts of strange things have happened and they mean only one thing: He is creating an issue where there is no issue. I suggest that he contain himself until he gets the answer to his questions on notice. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is true that there has been grave concern for quite a considerable time about a most undesirable immigrant that I understand had the original name of cryptotermes brevis but which is known more popularly as the West Indian dry wood termite. It is a most unwelcome visitor to our shores and certainly a most unwelcome intruder into Queensland. As long ago as, I think, June 1972, the Premier of Queensland wrote to the then Prime Minister and was anxious to receive some assistance and I am pleased to say that the present Australian Government has offered assistance on a $1 for SI basis in the eradication of this pest. I know that the honourable member, who has been most concerned about this infestation, as it has occurred in his electorate, will be happy with that decision which the Minister for Primary Industry is to announce in detail this morning. 
A warning should be issued because this termite is no respector of persons, dwellings or States and there is a need for a continuing survey of the position in other parts of Queensland, in northern New South Wales and the Northern Territory. In case there is any doubt about the seriousness of the problem, I understand that the cost to treat an individual dwelling can be as high as $900 and continuing treatment may be required at a cost of $150. So I think the action that has been taken in concert with the Queensland authorities and with the support of the Australian Government is very timely. The honourable member for Wide Bay has done a service to all of us in his efforts to contain this most undesirable of immigrants that Australia has had recently. 
I have not had any direct discussions with the Victorian Minister of Immigration or his officers since the meeting of the State Ministers some time ago. AH the State Ministers for Immigration will be meeting in Adelaide on 9 November and any of the matters that call for co-operation will be dealt with there. I have seen some statements which indicate a totally unreal attitude to migration at the present time. I saw one particular headline in a journal in Victoria which said: 'Migrants wanted. Let's go and get them.' This betrays a completely unreal attitude both towards the people who desire to come here and to their response to that sort of recruitment approach. I want to make it very plain and I stress again that what we must do at all times is to invite people to join us - not to be the shock troops in this or that operation, but to invite people to join us as permanent settlers and members of the family of the nation. 
If anyone has knowledge of some secret source of supply of skilled building workers we would be delighted to know about it because these people are in short supply in practically every country. We would certainly not be in a position to outbid other people and this is not our intention. We extend an invitation to people to join us for very many reasons and not just for short term advantage. I have made it very plain that it is our intention to give priority to decentralised development, to the growth centres and to country development generally to take the pressure off the inner city areas. We will continue to do that. Certainly where co-operation is needed we will be giving it. As far as the program is concerned, the movement of people that is desired by the States or by local authorities will be carried out in co-operation within the program and not outside it. 
The position in regard to interpreter services generally in Australia is deplorable. It has been established by task forces particularly in Sydney and Melbourne that in some cases people who have needed treatment in hospitals have not been able to receive that treatment in a proper and effective way because of a lack of interpreters. I have received a report which indicated that a man had gone to gaol because there was complete confusion both on his part and the part of his defence about what the exact position was. It has been the practice over the years for interpreters to be almost dragged in off the street to give assistance in the courts on most complex matters. This seems to me to be prejudicing justice in our country. The reports of the task forces indicate that there is a great need to upgrade the standard of interpreter services, to provide for proper training and above all to seek co-operation now in all spheres between the Australian Government and the State governments, particularly in the fields of health and justice, and this I will do. We need to ensure that health services are properly provided and that justice is done. I am not satisfied at all that justice is being done at the present time or that it has been done in the past. 
The honourable member poses a question relating to what is really a matter associated with wheat stablisation. As I mentioned in the House last week, I think it was, on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry, the discussions on the new wheat stabilisation scheme are proceeding at present and will take into account some of the matters that he has raised. I would just add that there is often a great deal of misunderstanding about the returns for wheat and the charges for wheat, and particularly the spread of costs between the producer and the consumer. I was interested to see the other day that in 1952 a 2 lb loaf cost 10c and contained about 3.4c worth of wheat and that last year a loaf costing 23c contained even less value in wheat, namely, 2.8c. So there is certainly room for a look at the whole gamut of matters associated with the producer and the consumer and quite frankly I would hope that we would be able to bring them much closer together in the future to the benefit of both. 
The following table provides the number of inquiries received at offices of my Department in the U.S.A. in the years 1971, 1972 and 1973 (January to August) on a monthly basis. 
It is believed that the downturn in the inquiry rate which commenced at about April 1972 is the result largely of the then deteriorating employment situation in Australia and the knowledge in the U.S.A. that strict controls were being placed on migrants who fell into over-supplied employment categories. 
This is confirmed by the fact that the inquiry rate for the last three months for which figures are available - June to August 1973 - represents an increase of 23 per cent over the last three months of 1972 when the downturn was approaching its lowest level. 
This trend indicates that interest in the U.S.A. in migration to Australia is increasing, coincidentally with a return to conditions of full employment. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The funds to recoup the Government's expenditure on the eradication campaign will be obtained by way of a charge of 0.6c per pound on exports of beef and veal. Legislation imposing this charge, together with a charge of 1.0c per pound on meat exports to recoup export meat inspection costs, was introduced on 11 September 1973. 
For the information of honourable members, I present an interim statement on the activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30 lune 1973. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
'For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. When the final report is available, I shall table it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
Yesterday, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  asked me a question about interpreter services. I indicated that a great amount of detail would be involved in a full answer and, in the interests of brevity, I did constrict my reply. I ask for leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard the detail of the answer to that question. 
It is true that towards the end of last year there was- a greatly reduced interest in Australia in the United States of America. As a matter of .fact in December the inquiries dropped to the lowest level for a long time. The inquiries for that month of December last were running at only about 3,000 and that was a very low number of inquiries. I am pleased to say that by June of this year the interest had picked up considerably and the inquiries to .the various officers throughout the United States were at a level of 5,000. When I was there a few weeks ago I must say that I found in the United States literally a boom of interest in Australia. In many locations people who previously did not know where Australia was now know where it is and instead of being surprised to hear something of this country they now look for the information. As a matter of fact Australians in the United States, I would say, at this particular time are walking taller than they have ever walked before. I am particularly pleased because the international image of Australia seems to me to be the best that it has been in my generation. 
I cannot comment on the reports which I have seen about the difficulties of Ugandan Asians settling in Britain. But I should like to say that I think the position in Australia reflects great credit on both sides of the Parliament because it was under the previous Administration when permission was given for the issue of some 500 visas to assist in the problem of settling refugees from East Africa. I should like to acknowledge that that decision was made by the previous Administration. Since that time, we have had a request from the High Commissioner for Refugees for an additional 50 visas to assist in the remnants of the resettlement and the Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs was happy to agree with my suggestion that they be issued. So, on both sides of the Parliament, there has been concern to assist in the resettlement of Asians driven from Uganda. From October 1972 there were 50 Ugandan Asian families in the 'Endeavour' hostel in Sydney and I think all honourable members will be pleased to know that only 10 families remain at the hostel. All the others have been settled successfully and absorbed into their professions. Just the other day,  Mr 1.  H. Paddick a migrant selection officer, came back from Nairobi where he was instrumental in selecting many of these refugees. He was present at the 'Endeavour' hostel at a thank-you function to all the people in Australia who had been concerned with the resettlement of these refugees. I am pleased to acknowledge the efforts from both sides of the Parliament in this humane operation.  Mr Paddick,  who has had experience in East Africa, said that the people who have come here have been integrated in a way which surprised him, integrated in a far better way than they had ever been absorbed in East Africa. They unanimously expressed the opinion that they were grateful for the hand of welcome that had been extended to them. They wanted to become Australian citizens, and the Operation Refugee from East Africa reflects credit on Australia generally and on both sides of this Parliament. 
in reply - We are discussing a matter which concerns the nation's most precious capital - the children coming on. I thank honourable members who have taken part in this debate for their thoughtful contributions - the honourable members for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  Batman  (Mr Garrick),  Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I suppose that I might lay a modest claim to, shall I say, a national record in that I represented a school which at one time contained a class comprising 99 per cent migrant children of recent arrivals. This left the one Australian-born youngster in a magnificent position to integrate or not. He survived the experience particularly well. He has passed through the education system and looks back on his school days with great affection. 
In 1971 the present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  then shadow Minister for Immigration, was very anxious on behalf of the Opposition, to see that this initiative was taken. He expressed his views strongly. I am pleased to be in the position to present the initiative to the House of Representatives at this time and to find that it attracts the unanimous approval of honourable members. I think the most thoughtful contribution to this debate by members of the Opposition was from the honourable member for Warringah who posed a couple of queries which should be answered. He questioned why the Government said that more expenditure is expected; he said that this was not very precise. We have allocated $2m at this time. My concern is not that that will be enough by any means but that we will be able to get the material, make the plans and actually have classrooms available quickly for use by the children. This allocation is tied to the availability of material and the ability of the planning authorities in the States as well as the Australian Government to get busy on this matter. If we find that the $2m can be utilised quickly, that we can get demountables and emergency classroom accommodation established and that there is a need for more, the House certainly has my assurance on behalf of the Government that it will be looking at the situation with some eagerness to do more. However this is the reason that it is not possible to be precise at present. Certainly the program will be continued. It will not be static in any way. 
The honourable member referred also to the report of the Queensland Task Force and specifically mentioned the application to the Department of Immigration for pre-school or child care centre assistance. Within the Department of Immigration there is not this kind of money. Under this Bill it is not possible, for example, to make funds available for that purpose because 'at present pre-school education is not recognised as an integral part of the state school system. 
May I explain the situation? I am delighted to help these applications in any way that I can but I should explain that there is a Government policy for the development first of child-care centres. The Australian Department of Education at present is responsible for receiving applications from organisations in the community for financial assistance towards the cost of establishment and operation of child-care centres. One of the criteria against which applications are assessed is the educational content of the child care to be provided. Applications also are considered on the basis of the needs of the parents. This means, of course, migrants, perhaps in a special category, but there are other special categories too. It certainly relates to migrant children in their early stage of settlement. This avenue is open for these people and others to apply. I had a deputation in Sydney just a couple of days ago from the Turkish Welfare Association which has been newly established. It will be looking at this means to assist the integration of its people through the establishment of a child care centre along these lines. The avenue is open to them, so I would commend it. I would suggest that the honourable member should get that detail so that he can make it freely available to his constituents. 
We are very conscious of the need to reach migrant children at the pre-school level. As a matter of fact we are very anxious to meet ail Australian children at the pre-school level. In reply to a contribution made, I think, by the honourable member for Batman, I would express the hope that our own children at the pre-school level would be able to have the exposure to language and cultures that would broaden the base of our Australian culture at this time. I mention that in passing. The program extends at the moment only to formal education at primary and secondary levels. Pre-school education is not as yet formally part of the education system in all States. That was really why it was necessary to refuse the Queensland request. But the Government is looking at this aspect and has set up, as honourable members will know, the Australian Pre-School Commission to establish all aspects of pre-school need. The Department of Immigration, my own Department, is already providing special instruction to migrant children at pre-school age in the child care centres in migrant hostels. In addition, the Migrant Education Television Unit at Wollongong is already planning an educational television program directed to children of pre-school age for production in 1974-75. The Department of Immigration is also in touch with the Australian Pre-School Commission as part of our interest in ensuring that the needs of migrant children at pre-school age will be taken into account by that Commission. I think it is most important that those needs should be recognised in the assessments which are proceeding at this time. 
There was a reference by at least 2 honourable members to the need to train the teachers. This is true. There is a need to teach the teachers. The development of migrant teaching courses at present in our tertiary institutions is to be commended and I certainly look forward to their being properly recognised and supported. There was a reference also to the often neglected part of the migrant community, which is the womenfolk. Of course, these initiatives will not directly help womenfolk but we have some initiatives in which we have built on the experience of people overseas and which make it possible to have a course of what is known as 'one for one'. This involves a series of volunteers who can be trained to take the language into the homes of migrant womenfolk so that they are adopted as the women's teachers and of course as their friends. This scheme is meant to be, in the fullest sense of the expression, a good neighbour operation. This is just the beginning. We are just getting the kits prepared in the Department of Immigration now. Through the kits, when they are prepared, we will be able to have the volunteers given some training in this matter. Then they will be able to go into the homes. This is a new initiative, very much overdue, to try to break the barriers of loneliness and isolation which have beset so many women who have come to our shores over the years. 
 The honourable member for Batman, who is the distinguished  Chairman  of the Victorian Task Force Committee, talked very passionately about the eradication of inequality in education. Of course this must be our dedication. We have to do this. We have to bring a whole generation of migrant children into the schools system in a proper and sound way. He sounded a note of urgency, which I commend. He also referred to the fact that we have lost language skills in our country. Of course we have. We have probably lost 20 languages in 20 years. They have gone. We have lost them; we have made no conscious effort to preserve them. We must do that. This is a bank of our national heritage and we should not squander its resources. 
As a matter of fact this was part of the points that were raised by the honourable member's colleagues in referring to teaching the teachers and in bringing the languages into the classes at the primary or pre-school level. By doing this our own children have exposure to the broadest possible base of language and culture. If the instruction is left until they are old ladies and gentlemen at high school it is too late and we have mostly missed the bus. 
The honourable member looked forward to the day when we would have a choice of bilingual television programs. I think that he was looking a bit far ahead. But the general concept of being able to have the broadest possible choice is one that I very much support. The honourable member for Mallee was very rightly concerned about the migrant children in rural areas. He mentioned some of the areas which he represents and which are neighbours to my own southern areas in the electorate of Riverina. I give him a clear assurance that where there is a need for teachers or for the provision of facilities it must be met. There must be no neglect in those areas and I am happy to give him that assurance. Incidentally, he did refer to the withdrawal system. This was a matter that was also raised by the honourable member for Sturt. We would certainly like to see the withdrawal system applied mainly to migrant children at the primary level where the loss of normal class time is less important than for the children at the secondary level. For secondary level students whose need is urgent we prefer to see intensive withdrawal - that is, for periods of 3 months, 6 months or even 12 months. This is already happening in some States. I would commend Western Australia in this instance. 
In the 1972-73 financial year some 200 newly arrived children at the secondary level received intensive instruction in education centres in migrant hostels before passing on to the normal school system. This is an ideal way of doing it and I wish it could be done for all. It is not possible but it is a very good objective. I would say that the ultimate objective would be for all teachers to be trained to take classes in their usual subjects in which there are migrant children. This is where we come to the point of the last interjection. Of course there is a tremendous need at the present time to broaden the base of teacher training to enable all teachers to be able to do what the honourable members have suggested. I agree entirely, but it will take time. It will take further initiatives and I look forward to those initiatives continuing. 
The honourable member for Bowman, who is a distinguished member of the National Migration Advisory Committee, properly indicated that the era of the numbers game alone is over. There is no doubt about that. It is not consistent with the high aspirations of people who want to come here and it is not consistent these days with the overwhelming desire of Australians to give a better deal to the people who come to join us. 
As a matter of fact my distinguished colleague who was the shadow Minister for Immigration used to say this with great passion and sincerity. I am delighted to have him with me on this occasion. I have already referred to one of the comments made by the honourable member for Sturt. But I should also like to refer to the fact that this is not, of course, the end of the initiatives. It is only one initiative that we are taking at this time. There must be continuing research. I acknowledge that right away because we have certainly not come to the end of our consideration of what are the best methods. 
The honourable member for Bowman has queried the 25 year-old methods that have been employed. He is right. These have to be reviewed. They have to be dealt with. I accept entirely the proposition that continuing research must be carried out to ensure that we have the right methods and the right approach to handling the youngsters. That I accept entirely. There was a reference to the need for multilingual advisers. I want to remind the honourable member that we are in the course of appointing 48 multilingual welfare officers which will act as liaison officers. They will not be, if I may use the term, desk Johnnies. If I find them at their desks I will want to know what they are doing there, because they are field workers. They must go into the community. They must work in conjunction with the welfare bodies. They must be at the neighbourhood centres which have already been established. They must be in the schools and they must be part of that bridge building, which has been referred to, with the families. It is entirely essential and indeed urgent and these officers will be orientated in that direction. They have been appointed. They are undergoing training. I would hope that they will be in the field very shortly. That is a very valid point. 
In conclusion I would just say that this is by no means the end of the initiatives; it is simply one of the new initiatives that we need if we are to build a united community. That is surely the overwhelming national consideration at the present time. All the other arguments and petty divisions surely fall to the ground when we look at Australia at the present time with a population of 13 million and we say: 'Let us build a united community, within which we can have our differences in politics, culture and religion, but let us have the basis of national unity laid in this decade'. This is just a modest little measure in this regard, but I am glad that it has received unanimous support on all sides of the Parliament. I thank honourable members for their contributions to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply - 'The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  on behalf of the Opposition, has supported the measure. He said it is a common-sense measure. I thank him for that comment. He also posed a number of questions in relations to the entry into Australia of certain persons. He was referring to criminals, and I must say to him very bluntly that it is my firm belief that people who have criminal records - in particular, people who have records of violence - should not and will not be welcome in Australia. Certainly anyone who comes to our shores from outside them and practices criminal activities, whether of the left or the right, will be most unwelcome and we will see them on their way. I want to be quite clear about that. I do not want to take up too much time on this point, but I want to give a firm and unequivocal undertaking that people with criminal records who seek to enter Australia will not be welcome. If they in fact engage in activities here which bring them to the notice of Australian courts I will invoke the full powers that are vested in me, as Minister for Immigration, to see them on their way. But I cannot act outside the law or the courts. 
I wish to refer specifically to the inquiry that was made by the honourable member for Boothby about a report which appeared in a newspaper concerning a man who arrived from Africa and applied for political asylum. I wish to say that matters concerning political asylum are not under my control. Anyone who comes here for migration purposes, visiting purposes, short term stay purposes in connection with industry or an engagement, is my responsibility. But I refer matters of political asylum to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam).  The determination is made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in all matters of political asylum. It is not part of my responsibility. 
A fair question was also asked by the honourable member for Boothby in relation to the man who was deported by me recently -  Mr Azzam.  I want to make it quite clear that as Minister for Immigration I treated his case in no way different from anyone else's case. I make no distinctions in these matters. In fact, I was very anxious to ensure that the procedures which were followed by me and my departmental officers in his case were exactly the same as those followed in the case of anyone else. It would not matter whether he was going to Paris, London or New York and it would not matter whether he had entered from any one of those places. He was in fact an illegal immigrant. He was in breach of the law. He was properly found to be so by the Australian courts. When I was able to do so I took the quickest possible action to deport him. When he was released from custody it was my responsibility and my duty to do that. I want to say to the honourable member that I will not be deflected from my duty by threats, whether they be from any of the well recognised terrorist or criminal organisations or anyone else inside or outside of the country. I will administer the rules given to me to administer on behalf of the people of Australia. That will be done. 
The honourable member has made reference to 2 people. In the 30 seconds available to me I must say that one of them was, I think, a British citizen with a British passport and with a clear record as far as the British authorities are concerned. He also had a clear record as far as our authorities were concerned. I have no right to deport a man because of his views and I would not do so. If a man transgresses the law in this country he will be dealt with according to the law. I must repeat that, as far as I am concerned, I want to see the fullest flow of views, but not those of law breakers and not those of people who abuse our hospitality.  Mr Azzam  would have been treated by me in the same way as anyone else, without fear of threat or favour from any source at all. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 I wish to speak on this particular matter because it is one in which I have taken considerable interest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have often stressed my wish to remove paper barriers and needless red tape with the aim of encouraging the interchange of visitors between countries. The Government has already taken steps in this direction with its simplified policy and procedures for the issue of visas to visitors wishing to come to Australia which came into effect on 1 September 1973. 
However, there remains an essential need for international travellers generally to be able to identify themselves and to establish their nationality by producing a valid travel document and in Australia's case I believe our best interests arc currently served by retaining the visa requirement except for direct transit traffic. 
I have not directed my Department to undertake any such studies, because while it remains my ambition to achieve a totally free movement of the peoples of the world, this would not regretfully be possible in the light of international tensions and transcontinental criminality and the need to safeguard our own people at this time of continuing global unrest. 
I rise to move the following amendment to the motion which is presently before the Parliament: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House congratulates the Minister for Minerals and Energy for his firmness and wisdom in the balanced and flexible management of the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme; condemns the Opposition for its blatant attempt to involve the Government in a major industrial dispute to which the New South Wales Liberal coalition Government is a party, and in which employees of the New South Wales Electricity Commission at the Tumut power stations covered by New South Wales industrial awards and under that Commission's industrial discipline are involved; further condemns the Opposition for seeking to impose upon the national Government, in respect of State employees a course of industrial action which that Government is not prepared to take in any power station in New South Wales, knowing that it would result in a complete cessation of power generation.' 
I move this amendment because in fact there has been a cynical- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The screening of migrants from Britain has been the subject of representations to the British Government from time to time since the commencement of post-war immigration. 
It is my intention to pursue this matter personally as soon as I am able to make a visit to London. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I informed the honourable member in my answer to his question (No. 81 of 4 April 1973), the final assessment of the evidence must await the completion of the economic cost-benefit analysis by Associate Professor J. R. Wilson. The honourable member will recall that when this study was commissioned during his term as Minister for Immigration, he stipulated that the final report was to be closely studied before a decision was made to release details of the findings. 
At this time I see no reason to vary this original instruction. 
There have been a great many reports about the infiltration, if that is the right word, into Australia by overseas criminals and terrorists. I must say that this has not occurred in the way in which it has been depicted. We have in fact taken the strongest possible precautions but not at this end because we do not have these troubles at this time and we do not want to import them and we do not want to have them here. What I have done as Minister for Immigration is to authorise the suspension in a number of areas of the easy system of tourist visa issuing which was introduced a few months ago to facilitate the movement of people to Australia with the least possible formality and the least possible amount of bureaucracy. In view of the international tensions and difficulties which have been caused by small groups in various parts of the world, those special arrangements which I introduced have been suspended in certain areas. I am confident, and I can assure the House, that all of the organs that are responsible for security at present are well informed and in a good position to keep from our country the kinds of tensions that exist in other places only too sadly at the moment. 
My attention was drawn to some reports of alleged shortages of some processed foodstuffs. I did look into this as a matter of very keen interest and concern to all of us and discovered that, in fact, there had been a suggestion by a processor that he was not obtaining the supplies of the product that he sought. However, this was essentially related to the price that was offering. In some cases, of course, there has been no effective increase for 10 years in the producers' return on some of these lines. As a matter of fact, in one particular instance a product which was produced for, I think, something like 3.5c per lb had retailed for many years at 26c and 27c per lb. My own impression and information is that if beef prices in the saleyards dropped by SO per cent per lb in the morning, the steak would still cost the same as before in Sydney, Melbourne and the other cities. I certainly will draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the concern expressed by the honourable member and I will also ask the Minister to use every device at his disposal to probe the very long pipeline of costs between the consumer and the producer, or vice versa, because it seems to me that this is where most of the trouble in relation to high food prices lies at present. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the initial report of the Migrant Task Force Committee of Western Australia. I present also the report on the survey of interpreting and translating needs in the community, dated October 1973. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Wheat Tax Act 1957-1966 to provide for a maximum rate of tax of 15c per tonne to be paid upon wheat that is delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. Under the terms of associated legislation, the Wheat Research Act 1957, the proceeds of the levy derived under the provisions of the Wheat Tax Act are appropriated to the State wheat research committees in each mainland State in the proportions in which those proceeds are collected in the States for expenditure by the committees on wheat research. The Bill also makes provision for regulations to impose any lower rate of tax, than 15c per tonne, after consideration by the Governor-General of a report to the Minister for Primary Industry by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. 
The measure implements the proposals of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. In line with the recommendation of the Federation, it is envisaged that following the passage of the Act, regulations would be prescribed to set the operative rate of levy at 11c per tonne on deliveries to the Board commencing with the 1973-74 season. This would apply from 1 October 1973. The rate of 11c per tonne represents an increase of 20 per cent over the existing rate which has applied since 1965. On a delivery level of, say, 10.9 million tonnes or 400 million bushels, wheat tax collections would increase by around $200,000 to an overall figure of $1.2m. 
The Government at present matches industry contributions towards the cost of wheat research. These moneys are made available by annual appropriation from the Budget to finance research programs recommended by the Wheat Industry Research Council, constituted under the provisions of the Wheat Research Act, and approved by the Minister for Primary Industry. The Government has decided that it will continue to provide funds to match industry contributions at the new rate of tax proposed, that is, lie per tonne. The research projects financed from the tax collections and Government contributions have provided results of considerable value to the wheat industry. This is evident by the willingness of the industry to increase its contributions to programs investigating a wide range of projects in the fields of soil fertility, plant nutrition, wheat breeding, wheat diseases, storage problems and economic studies. 
Since the levy for research purposes was last increased, there have been considerable increases in costs, particularly the salaries of research scientists. To provide for a continuation of the research efforts in the face of this situation, the available funds must be supplemented to sustain the total campaign. The maintenance of the wheat research program is of importance because, with the major portion of Australian wheat production grown for the export market, there is a need for continuing research into all aspects of production and storage and to improve quality standards of wheat to compete effectively with other exporting countries and to meet the requirements of new markets. It is for these reasons that the Government has agreed to the proposed increased rate of tax and is prepared to meet the additional liability it will incur by continuing to match the funds contributed by the industry. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for an extension of the wheat industry stabilisation arrangements, currently scheduled to expire with the disposal of the 1972-73 season's wheat crop, to cover the marketing of wheat of the 1973-74 season. The first wheat industry stabilisation plan was introduced by the Labor Government in 1948. Stabilisation arrangements have since then been continued in 5 yearly rests, the existing plan covering the wheat crop of the 5 seasons 1968-69 to 1972-73 inclusive. All of these plans have followed a general pattern, in as much as they have contained provisions for wheat growers to contribute to a wheat prices stab.lisation fund a proportion of their returns from export sales in seasons when prices have been in excess of a pre-determined level; the moneys so contributed being returned to the growers to supplement their returns in the market place when prices have fallen below that level. 
The Australian Government has been a party to these arrangements by its agreement to provide funds to subvent growers returns whenever the stabilization fund has not contained sufficient moneys from industry contributions to lift prices to the specified level. The State governments are party to the orderly marketing and stabilisation arrangements in that, under law, they vest the ownership of wheat produced within their borders in the hands of the Australian Wheat Board and authorise the Board to market wheat within the Australian States at uniform home consumption price levels. The States have always complemented the Federal legislation to give effect to the marketing and stabilisation arrangements and have agreed to continue to do so for the purpose of the 1973-74 season's extension of the existing arrangements. The Government is providing for this extension pending the outcome of a thoroughgoing review of the operation of the wheat industry stabilisation plan. Under direction of the Government a review group in the Department of Primary Industry will in the fairly near future be presenting its report for our consideration. We will then be moving to consideration of our position in relation to negotiations with the wheat industry and the States for stabilisation arrangements to apply for the period beyond 1973-74. 
With the present benefit of hindsight, it is of interest now to reflect upon some aspects of the second reading speech by the then Minister for Primary Industry, when he introduced the enabling legislation in 1968 to implement the existing stabilisation plan. In that speech the then Minister drew attention to the amount of money that had been contributed by the taxpayers under the terms of the Government's guarantee for stabilisation purposes in the period up to 1968. As he stated at that time, that amount of money was $156m, of which $95m was provided during the 5 years ended 1967-68. He SUBrested that this was a considerable sum to provide to one of the most prosperous rural industries and would of itself be sufficient justification for changes in important features of the stabilisation plan. 
The then Minister in 1968 indicated that the stabilisation proposals put forward by the industry at the time would have cost an amount estimated at $250m over 5 years and said that this would have been an intolerable position and could not be justified. He said that the shape of the guaranteed price arrangements on wheat exports being provided by the Government would cost at least $68m over the 5 years, if the cost experience in the ensuring 5 years and the level of export prices turned out to be much the same as in the previous 5 years. It eventuated that in the first 4 years of the current 5 year plan, the price of wheat in the international market place consistently weakened. There were several reasons for this. There was some oversupply of wheat in the main producing countries and certainly severe competition between exporters for markets. But these recurring problems of divergence between supply and demand cannot be avoided, at least in total. In the event the current stabilisation plan in the first 4 years of its operation has cost the tax payer $129m - a figure substantially more than anticipated by the then Government at the time of its introduction. 
This Government - and I suppose all governments - shares the concern of the previous administration that stabilisation provisions which would leave the way open for potential subvention to the wheat industry of the magnitude that has occurred in the last decade or so cannot be allowed to continue. I might mention that, whereas in the earlier years of wheat stabilisation, the stabilisation fund was self-supporting - that should be remembered - and there was no call on the Treasury prior to the 1959-60 season, the Government has since been required to contribute in every year up to the 1971-72 season. Thus, as I have already indicated, the Government has moved for an in-depth review of the arrangements that might apply beyond the 1973-74 season. It is an approach which has been accepted by the State governments which are party to any arrangements and by the wheat industry through its central spokesman, the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation. Pending this review and the negotiation of new arrangements with the industry and the States, this Bill seeks to continue the existing stabilisation provisions for next year. Without attempting to prejudge where the review group in the Department of Primary Industry is likely to come out, I must express the view that a strong case seems to exist for future stabilisation arrangements and the guaranteed price provisions of such arrangements, to have regard to realistic market forces. 
Turning to the main substance of the Bill, the measure provides for the guaranteed price on exports of 5,443,108 tonnes (200 million bushels) of wheat from the 1973-74 season's crop - the same guaranteed quantity as at presentto be set at $58.79 per tonne ($1.60 per bushel) f.o.b. This figure has been accepted by the States and the industry as indeed have all other features of the Bill. The other basic provisions of the Bill are: That in line with the existing arrangements, the home consumption price for the 1973-74 season will be determined according to movements in cash costs, in rates of interest and in rail freight and handling charges; that the 1973- 74 season be defined as a 'quota season' - 
Decisions of the States and of the industry - I would reiterate - are open to review. Other basic provisions of the Bill include: That the legislative arrangements for the marketing of wheat, that is, those excluding the guaranteed price and stabilisation arrangements, be extended for one season to cover the 1975-76 season. This continues existing arrangements whereby the Wheat Board is empowered to carry out its functions relating to the marketing of wheat for 2 seasons beyond the end of the period of stabilisation. 
The opportunity has been taken by means of the Schedule to the Bill to convert all quantities in the principal Act to their metric equivalents. It seems probable that the existing high and abnormal value of wheat in the market place will not recede in the next year or so to a level which would require any call on Treasury funds in terms of the Government's price guarantee. On the other hand the likelihood is that the industry could contribute the maximum amount, set under the terms of the scheme, to the stabilisation fund, that is, $5.51 per tonne. On anticipated exports from the 1973-74 season's deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board of 8.4 million tonnes this contribution would be of the order of $46m. 
A very good contribution. I am glad to see that it is recognised on all sides of the House. I have said that the extension of the plan as proposed for one year has the support of the industry and State governments. The passage of the legislation by the Australian and State governments will provide the industry with the security afforded by orderly marketing and stabilisation while arrangements for the future are being formulated. I commend the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The question is: That the Bill be now read a second time. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Wheat Export Charge Act 1968 to extend its application by one year to cover the 1973-74 season. It is complementary to the Wheat Industry Stabilization Bill 1973. A basic feature of succeeding wheat stabilisation schemes has been that growers contribute a proportion of their returns from export sales to a stabilization fund - the Wheat Prices Stabilization Fund - when prices exceed a pre-determined level. In particular, the Wheat Export Charge Act 1968 imposes a charge on all exports of a pool when the export return exceeds the guaranteed price plus $1.84 per tonne (5c per bushel), up to a maximum charge of $5.51 per tonne (15c per bushel). 
Moneys contributed by growers as an export charge are thereafter available for withdrawal from the Stabilization Fund to raise the return on exports to the level of the guaranteed price on a specified quantity of the pool's exports. Once growers' moneys in the Fund are exhausted there is an obligation upon the Australian Government to provide from Consolidated Revenue the funds necessary to return growers the guaranteed price. Growers' moneys in the Stabilization Fund were exhausted before the closure of the 1959-60 season's pool and since then the Government has been obliged to meet its commitment on the export guarantee. 
It is well known that there has been a dramatic change in the world wheat market over the past 12 months or so. Prices are now very much in excess of any previous level and are almost three times the depressed levels of 1972. As a result, it seems very likely that growers will be required to contribute to the Fund in respect of exports from the 1973-74 pool to the full extent of the export charge - that is, $5.51 per tonne. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The labour needs of Australian industry are the subject of continuing consultation with the Minister and Department of Labour the Immigration Planning Council (On which industry leaders and the trade unions are represented), State and other appropriate authorities. 
The statement of 28 December 1972 is still valid. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) See report of Conference of Ministers tabled in House of Representatives on 29 August 1973. 
The next Conference of Ministers will be held in Adelaide on 9 November 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of a firm agreement entered into with the director of the population study, Professor W. D. 
Borrie, concerning distribution of working papers pending the completion of the final report, I am unable to agree to this request. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The whole matter of Veterinary responsibilities within the Australian Government is under consideration at the present time and it is expected that a decision will be made in the near future. At the present time responsibilities are divided between various departments and the Government has under consideration the establishment of a Bureau of Animal Health to bring most of its veterinary activities under one Department. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable members question: 
The answer to this question is covered by the reply to the honourable member's Question No. 848. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2)- 
The Minister for (Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a brief ministerial statement on immigration. 
I propose to make a brief statement and then to ask leave to incorporate in Hansard the balance of detail so that it can be studied adequately by all honourable members. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I regret that under the provisions of the Census and Statistics Act the detailed information sought by the honourable member is confidential. The Bureau of Census and Statistics only publishes the total value of whale meal, solubles and other by-products. This amounted to $585,000 in 1972. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry provided the following answer to the honourable members' question: 
Yes. 
The details as requested in question 174 with respect to the Department of Primary Industry and the various Statutory Authorities under my control are as follows: 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 1 December 1972, loans were provided by the previous Government to South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales for on-lending to certain cooperative canneries in those States. The purpose was to enable canneries to raise cash payments to growers for 1971-72 season canning fruit (peaches, pears and apricots) to 85 per cent of the prices set by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee (FISCC) or, where cannery levies in excess of 15 per cent prevented that, to FISCC price less levy. 
The loans were made without any decision being taken on a request by the industry for assistance &lt; to offset losses from international currency changes. 
(a) and (b) 
Concern was expressed in the reports of the Task Forces about migrants being exploited because they are not totally aware of how best to use hire purchase. 1 should say that reports have been made to me from time to time about peddling contracts that some new arrivals were not able to meet. I have arranged, following the work and recommendations of the Task Forces, for the preparation of a guide to hire purchase, which has been already published in 18 languages, lt will be followed by further guidance on pyramid selling and on a number of other social problems and matters which it is pretty obvious need to be clearly spelt out to new arrivals if we are to avoid their being placed in the position of being exploited. I can assure the honourable member that this first effort on hire purchase advice in 18 languages will be followed up in all the other areas in just as many languages so long and so far as the need exists. 
I' do recall the question asked previously by the honourable member. He asked what would be the fate of wheat grown in Western Australia if the State produced above its State quota. He asked: Would it be taken in, and would the first advance bc paid on it? He was very concerned about those aspects. He also, I recall, raised the matter whether the quota system would continue in this year. I did refer the question to the 
Minister for Primary Industry. Unfortunately, as far as the quotas for this current season are concerned, it is a matter for the various State Governments, lt has not been possible, with the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry or the Australian Government, to suspend those quotas. But 1 agree entirely with the honourable member that to suggest that there should be any form of rationing in this year of shortage would be absurd. We have said that. 
In relation to the position in Western Australia, if Western Australia exceeds its State quota, all wheat certainly will be taken in by the Australian Wheat Board because the Australian Government has provided the funds and the mechanism to enable the Board to pay the first advance on a special pool of 20 million bushels. This special pool of 20 million bushels is an Australia-wide pool and it operates for this year. I might say in passing that this is something about which I have been most enthusiastic because it leads to a position where we can see the beginning of national storages of wheat and some national earmarking of grain for special purposes. This year it is being done. The special pool will enable any State with excess-quota wheat to deliver it and the growers to be paid for it. The Minister for Primary Industry assures me that the special pooling arrangements will be adequate to enable all wheat to be accepted and the first advance to be paid on all deliveries to licensed receivers in Western Australia. I think that was the matter about which the honourable member was concerned. The Government of Western Australia, I understand, will issue special quotas if necessary. 
The honourable member raised a further matter in his question. I have not had an opportunity to discuss that matter with the Minister for Primary Industry. The honourable member indicated that there had been an additional cost of perhaps Sim because of the introduction of the Australia-wide rationing or quota system. This is a very important question. It is a very serious one. What is more, I think it should be probed and the exact facts ascertained. I give this clear undertaking: I will confer again with the Minister for Primary Industry to see exactly what the cost of the quota system is. I undertake to give the honourable member and the House the full facts of a system which, incidentally, was introduced in previous years with my entire opposition at that time - and now. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report by the Immigration Advisory Council on its inquiry into the departure of settlers from Australia. The progress report was presented to the House on 14 March 1973. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Meat Industry Act 1964-1969, I present the thirty-eighth annual report of the Australian Meat Board for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is constant and on-going discussion between my Department and the Department of Education about ways of improving child migrant education, interspersed with major meetings on particular issues, for example emergency classroom accommodation and teacher-training. I myself have raised particular issues with my colleague the Minister for Education for example in relation to curricula reform to provide greater emphasis on citizenship education and the greater availability of visual aids in relation to the teaching of Australian history. 
I gather that the honourable member has in mind specifically his earlier Question No. 87 (Hansard, 2 May, 1973, page 1626) in which he asked what action had been taken to ensure that specialist bilingual teachers would be employed in schools to improve the education opportunities of migrant children. 
Because I see migrant education as one of the most vital matters affecting migrants, I asked that this area should be given first priority by the Migrant Task Forces Committees which I set up earlier in the year. 
In its interim report the Victoria Task Force has recommended, inter alia, that a survey be made to ascertain the number of teachers who are bilingual, that where there are significant numbers of migrant children attending individual schools opportunity should be available for all children to learn the languages of major ethnic groups and that a bilingualbicultural transitional school be established to explore the possibilities of this kind of induction to the Australian educational system. 
The implications of these recommendations will be considered by the Migrant Education Committee of the Immigration Advisory Council at its next meeting to be held early in October. 
The honourable member will be aware also that I have asked that consideration be given to the possibility of a program of Integration Fellowships, so that qualified teachers from the principal migrant source countries can come to Australian schools as fellows or as additional staff members to assist in the instruction of both migrant and Australian-born children. I have asked my Department to discuss this proposal with the Department of Education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I should like to see greater emphasis placed in existing courses on the realisation of Australian history, on appreciation of our heritage and the development of a sense of responsibility towards the environment. 
and (3) I have had a preliminary exchange of views with the Minister for Education and the question is to be further considered between us. In addition, I propose that the matters should be examined by the Migrant Education Committee of the Immigration Advisory Council. 
My attention has been drawn not only to the article in that newspaper but also to an announcement by a gentleman, I think named  Mr Clapperton,  that he had a league which was dedicated to the white purity of the nation based on Aborigines, which seemed to me to be an extraordinary exercise in acrobatics and semantics. However, that is his privilege. But to answer specifically the honourable member's question, I do not think the organisation could be properly described as having the support of the Opposition, because my information is that in 1952 this gentleman was railing at the then administration and the Department of Immigration for having the temerity to permit into Australia Catholics and Italians. He then proceeded some years later, I think in 1958, to rail against the previous administration for holding citizenship conventions which were designed to soften up the Australian people to admit Asians. So I think that the answer to the honourable member's question is that a very insignificant, perhaps lunatic, fringe may have peeped out into the national light for a brief moment, but I am sure that if these people held a mass rally, a telephone box would be adequate for their purpose. 
We have just listened to a long apology from the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  I gathered that he was defending the record of the McMahonAnthony administration. He defended more than that. He defended his record for 25 years. He gave us a picture that seemed to say that all was well in the countryside when the previous Government left office last December. He also made a plea in his speech for what he called - I use his terms - 'political protection'. He comes to the Parliament with his rump - his group - tonight to plead for a continuation of political protection. That was the essence of his plea. In his long apology he mentioned the wool industry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and his associates allowed wool in our country to be sold at 29c per lb. It was this group and this administration that allowed the Australian wheat industry to be led into some of the worst difficulties that it had had in a generation. It introduced wheat rationing in the middle of the season. It did this and, I might say, insisted on it. It supported this action until the change of government. It left the greatest mess in the countryside we had had in a generation. In case honourable members think that I am voicing a political sentiment I should like to draw the attention of the House of Representatives this evening to the Social Justice Statement prepared for the Australian Episcopal Conference by the National Commission for Justice and Peace. I draw attention to page 17. In this statement by the archbishops and the bishops and the members of the heirarchy there is a reference to poverty in Australia and a reference, no less, to the situation in 1969 at the great zenith of the power of the McMahon-Anthony administration. It reads:  in 1969: 'in the dairy industry of the 62,000 dairy farmers in the Commonwealth 31,000 earn less than $2,000 a year.' 
This is the sort of payoff for the ordinary producer for political protection - something that we are asked to continue this evening. This is not my statement, and not a statement by the Government, or indeed by any political party, but by assembled archbishops and bishops looking at the poverty and the difficulties in the countryside. They say that in 1969 the position was dreadful and terrible. This is what the figures show. This is the end result of a system we are attempting to replace. But of course we find that there are all sorts of objections from only one source. After all, what are we talking about? We are talking about a Bill before the Parliament to set up an industries commission with a simple objective to ensure that protection of particular industries is no longer imposed by stealth, by improper or back room political jobbery. It is an attempt also to give the Australian people access to decisions in relation to their taxation. It should be remembered that tariffs are taxes. It is improper and wrong for taxes to be imposed by stealth. So, of course, under this procedure they will no longer be so imposed. It will be possible for the whole of the population to look at the decision making process. I have long waited to see such a development. I welcome it warmly. I welcome it particularly because there is a very serious development in our community that concerns me most deeply, and that is the continuing division which is deepening between the city and the country. There is the great cry of the consumer for justice when he is paying high prices for basic elements of his diet. He wants justice. Incidentally the price of bread, I think, rose yesterday. In the great cities of our nation that will mean a thought that the wheat grower is already reaping the benefit of that increase. 
That is a very good question but the honourable member is 25 years late in asking it. Nevertheless, it is a welcome interjection by someone who is studying the form of the nation and perhaps considering where his party should have been going over the last quarter of a century. It should have been looking at the long pipeline of costs and the situation as we see it today where the consumer is exploited and the producer is inadequately recompensed. This is the situation which is a legacy of the last administration and a legacy of the sort of protection and the sort of taxation measures. by stealth which a section, indeed only a rump, of this House wishes to set perpetuated. 
What has it meant in terms of real protection to the great export industries of the nation that are based in the countryside? It is very doubtful whether the export industries that are based in our rural areas in fact command more than $300m a year in the form of protection, bounties, subsidies and assistance. The sum total of protection for the nation exceeds $3, 000m - ten times as much; yet the rump has been saying tonight that it is satisfied with what it has had in the past. We are not satisfied. Incidentally, there are some sections of primary industry that have not had an effective increase in return for 10 years. That is a situation for which there is no redress at the present time. Of course, under what we have proposed there will be redress. There will be an opportunity for justice. There will be an opportunity also to put aside once and for all protection and taxation by stealth. 
What we have seen develop in the last quarter of a century is a situation where people in the countryside have been, for political reasons, asked to turn in on themselves. They have been asked to look at the consumers - their customers in the cities - as being their enemy. There has been a consistent attempt to keep the producer and the consumer apart, to separate them, to divide them and, if at all possible, to make sure that they never meet. By gosh, if they ever do they will find that they are 2 sections of the community which are being exploited with high impartiality. How do we tackle that situation at the present time? Do we tackle it by political protection? In some instances the methods used have been nothing more than political protection rackets. That is not good enough by far for a nation as great as ours. What we should be doing in the Parliament tonight is unanimously accepting that this is a means of putting all our industries on a sound footing and of giving all of them an equality of opportunity to ask for a fair go. Surely that is something upon which we all should be agreed. I am delighted to think that the great majority of the House of Representatives and the Australian Parliament tonight is of one mind. It must be a matter of sadness to many of us to think that there is anyone in the Parliament who would want to perpetuate a system which is shot through with anomalies and which is in fact highly immoral from anyone's standpoint. 
When we come to look at the costs involved in many of our export industries - surely that is what this legislation is all about - we find that there are what are described as fixed costs. The term 'fixed costs' is a very interesting one. It means everybody's costs but the producer's. So, if there is to be any saving, that is the only area in which it can be made. Of course, we can cut them back. That was done by some processors of foodstuffs, who cut them back so successfully that they now have nothing to process. Let us take a peach as an example. A peach can give employment to people in 10 different industries. If we are going to look at the peach producing industry, for example, we should look at all of them together, publicly, and examine their costs publicly. We would in fact take claims for protection under public scrutiny. That is what this is all about, that is, having protection and taxes brought under public scrutiny. 
The old system is inadequate and bad. It takes us back to a situation in which we have had rural poverty amid plenty. Of course there has been protection, but who received the protection? 
The honourable member for Hawker is right. 
And the consumer did not get it. As the Minister for Secondary Industry has pointed out, the consumer did not get it. He is not getting it today. There has been some reference made to the meat tax, which incidentally, was the subject of the grossest misrepresentation by Opposition propagandists across the countryside. But I will refer to it. If the price of meat on the hoof dropped by SO per cent in the saleyards on Monday, the price of steak in Vaucluse, Redfern, Adelaide and Brisbane would remain the same. Surely we should be looking at our pipeline of costs in relation to these vital products which play a key role in the consumer price index because everyone relates inflation to the consumer price index. It is very interesting to look at the makeup of that index. 
I was pleased to hear the point made tonight by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who said that he was totally opposed to the idea of uncritical and indiscriminate protection. I commend that thought. I thought it was well put and well said. I would stress again to the House that tariffs are a tax and, therefore, people should know something about the decision making in relation to their taxes. Let us consider the arguments which have been put against this measure. It has been suggested that it ties the hands of the Government in relation to situations of urgency. I say immediately that there is one inimical thing against which we must always be on guard on this country, namely dumping. Dumping, as far as we are concerned is an irresponsible acceptance of somebody's surpluses in a temporary way. If we accept it and allow our own industries to be hurt and allow the temporary easing of somebody's else's problems, we then find that our own industries go out of production. We have killed our own production and put ourselves in a disadvantaged position. It has been said by some members of the Opposition that this provision ties the Government's hands. I think it should be remembered that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in introducing this legislation said:  . . the mandatory provision does not restrict the Government's freedom to make changes of policy such as the recent 25 per cent reduction in tariffs, to negotiate changes in levels of assistance for the purpose of international trade agreements, or to extend preferential treatment to developing countries. 
That answers the one sound point made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England. I do not know why the honourable member has sought to bury that part of the legislation. It does not tie the Government at all. In fact, it gives all industries, particularly the soundly based industries, an opportunity to put their case. 
When the case for industry is before this Commission the industries that will be found to be in the strongest position on the basis of efficiency will be found, in my opinion, in the countryside because in my own electorate what one finds are industries that have doubled their productivity in 10 years, and they are still increasing productivity per man and per unit of investment in a way which, if we were able to achieve it in secondary and tertiary industry, would put this country on the high road to a better prosperity than we have at present. Therefore, why run away from a public examination of the situation? I cannot understand how any member of this Parliament could pretend to say that he was looking after some particular rural segment and then say that this legislation is no good. The Australian Farmers Federation led by  Mr Noel  Hogan, who is a distinguished resident of my electorate of Riverina, and its secretary,  Mr Norquay,  who has been there for a generation, the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales and the Victorian. Farmers' Union are all bodies representing the grass roots of the countryside. They have all been saying: 'Do not weaken on this legislation. Do not give up the mandatory provision. Stick to your guns because we know the strength of our own representations; we know the strength of our own industries; we know the strength of our own case'. Here in this House we have a group of people saying: The case is not good enough. We cannot have such a public examination of our industries. We do not want it'. They want to go back to what the last  speaker  in this debate, the honourable member for New England, called political protection. 
I say again that, when one's case is sound and one does not have to apologise for it and when one does not need to have recourse to jobbery, one can go before this Commission on one's own merits. That is what our industries can do in this nation. Some cases in the primary, tertiary and secondary spheres, of course, will be looked at critically. That is all right. What is wrong with that? People should not be sentenced to a life of servitude in dead industries, whether they are in any one of those 3 sections. I think that on this occasion the Government can say that it has a measure which is long overdue. It is a sound measure. It is a good measure. What is more, it will reduce the doubts about the processes of government decision making - doubts which have been growing for a very long time. 
There is no one so deaf as one who will not hear and no one so blind as one who will not see. Even in my condition I think I can see better than some of my friends opposite. The only thing I would say is that perhaps it is better to be one-eyed temporarily than two-faced permanently. Having said that with a gentle joust, I wish to sum up by saying that the Government can be proud of this legislation. It has the overwhelming support of the industries of Australia and the overwhelming support of the Parliament. 1 am sorry that the rump is sagging tonight and failing in its duty. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen the newspaper report mentioned. 
The Government's views on such proposals were stated by me in this House on 25 May last in answer to a question from the honourable member for Angas (Hansard, page 2684). The Government's policy has not changed since then. 
Department of  the  Prime Minister and Cabinet  (Question No. 1044) 
It would not be true to say that there has been a large number of applications by overseas students to remain in Australia. From memory, I would say that at the present time no more than twenty are seeking by representations to me to stay under the criteria laid down. At present throughout Australia there are some 10,000 overseas students of whom 3,700 are at universities and the others at schools and colleges. The scheme is designed to promote friendship and amity in our region. It is not meant as an aid gesture to our neighbours. During my visit to South East Asia a couple of months ago I discussed with the Governments of Indonesia and Malaysia and particularly Singapore the criteria for students coming to and remaining in Australia. There was a ready recognition of the effort being made by Australia to extend the hand of friendship in this direction. With respect to students who graduate in Australia and wish to remain here I said, on behalf of the Government, that they would be counselled to return to their homeland because that was the basis on which they came to Australia to study but that if there were any persons who met the criteria and wished to remain, despite being counselled to return, they would not be discriminated against. The fact is that the overwhelming majority of those who come here and study successfully does, in fact, return home. The figures I have given testify to this. 
 I rise on this occasion to ask the 2 Opposition parties to clarify their position. I found it a bit extraordinary when it was suggested that there was no division of opinion first of all, and secondly - 
Motion (by  Mr Ian  Robinson) agreed to. 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 22 agreed to. 
Clause 23. 
The Minister shall not take any action in respect of any of the matters specified in sub-section (4), being action that is related to the provision of assistance to a particular primary or secondary industry but not being action that is necessary in order to implement the policy of the Australian Government - 
in relation to, or in relation to negotiations for, bilateral or multilateral trade agreements; or 
in relationto tariff preferences for developing countries, unless he has received a report of the Commission in relation to that matter under this Act or, if the Minister referred that matter to the Commission for inquiry and report and, when so referring that matter, specified a period within which the Commission was to report on that matter, thirty days have elapsed since the expiration of that period, but nothing in this sub-section prevents action being taken to provide assistance to an industry in accordance with, or for the purposes of, a law of Australia that was passed or made before the commencement of this Act. 
The matters referred to in sub-section (3) are - 
whether duties should be imposed on goods of a particular description imported into Australia; 
whether duties imposed on goods of a particular description imported into Australia should be removed or the rates of those duties should be increased or reduced; 
whether the importation of goods of a particular description into Australia should be prohibited or restricted; 
whether a prohibition on the importation of goods of a particular description into Australia should be removed; 
whether a restriction on the importation of goods of a particular description into Australia should be extended, reduced or removed; 
whether financial assistance for a period exceeding twelve months should be provided to an industry by the Australian Government; 
where financial assistance (not being financial assistance provided after inquiry and report by the Commission or the Tariff Board) has been provided to an industry by the Australian Government for a period not exceeding, or for periods not exceeding in the aggregate, twelve months - whether financial assistance should be provided to that industry by the Australian Government for a further period so that the total period for which financial assistance will be provided will exceed twelve months; or 
whether financial assistance that has been provided to an industry by the Australian Government for a period exceeding twelve months should be suspended or withdrawn or the rate of that financial assistance should be increased or reduced. 
For the purposes of paragraph (4) (g), any period for which financial assistance has been provided to an industry and which occurred not less than six years before the commencement of the further period referred to in that paragraph shall be disregarded. 
 I want to make one observation upon the amendments which have been moved this evening. The whole of the submission by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  has been based, it seems to me. on the fact that there was going to be some continuation of the secrecy of the past. But 1 would point out to the Committee at this stage that under this legislation the whole of the decision making will be in public. The whole of the processes will be known and understood by not only those industries that are applicants but by everyone associated with them and the Australian taxpayer who in fact meets the Bill. As we pointed out before, tariffs are taxes. This process gives an opportunity to all concerned to scrutinise the decision making processes. The whole of the amendments are designed to suggest that there will be a continuation of past secrecies. The whole purpose of the legislation is that there will be decisions made under public scrutiny - the Australian taxpayers' scrutiny. For the first time al] of the processes that in fact lead to what are imposts of taxation in the guise of tariffs will be scrutinised. 
I think this should be clearly understood. This is one reason why the Australian Farmers Federation, the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association, the Victorian Farmers Union and all of these grass roots bodies in the community support the legislation which is presently before the Parliament and which incidentally is supported by the overwhelming majority of the members of the Parliament. The point I am making is that the amendments are nothing more or less than a smokescreen designed to give an impression in the countryside and the nation as a whole that there will be something not quite open about the proceedings of this body. Surely the whole of the thrust of this piece of legislation is that secrecy and back door methods are at an end for the first time in the nation of Australia. We should all be unanimous about that. I for one am deeply disappointed that a small section of the Parliament should opt to return to the sins of omission and commission of the past when in fact everybody that those people have been associated with over the whole of the last generation have wanted this reform and this legislation. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (5) The question of controls on production of rabbits is, constitutionally, a matter for the States. It is understood that all States, with the exception of 
New South Wales, have legislation which prohibits the breeding of rabbits. In New South Wales there are only two rabbit breeding establishments which supply rabbits for research purposes and, it is understood that no new licences are to be issued as there is strong pressure in all States to discourage further development of the industry. 
The present attitude to this industry has arisen because of the harmful effects experienced in the past from this animal and its depredation of rural and grazing resources. 
As the Australian Government has no direct responsibility for this matter it is suggested that, should the honourable member wish to pursue his inquiries, he should contact the Departments of Agriculture in each State. 
I felt that possibly the greatest breakthrough in this particular sphere of allowing, permitting and encouraging migrants to know about their rights and privileges as Australian workers came when  Mr Justice  Moore, in handing down a decision, said that that decision would be made available in the languages of the people who had been concerned in the dispute and who had been encouraged to come and work in this country. I have considerable sympathy for the problem that has been raised by the honourable member because in a survey of several thousand factories not so long ago it was found that the highest incidence of industrial accidents was being sustained by recently arrived workers. When we looked into this it was discovered that the main reason was that adequate advice on safety measures, expressed in the languages of the people concerned, was not displayed in factories. It was also pretty obvious that having been injured, many of these people were not aware of their compensation rights. I think the suggestion advanced by the honourable member has considerable merit. I will certainly confer with the Minister for Labour to see whether we can do 2 things. The first is to ensure that the example set by  Mr Justice  Moore is followed by all his colleagues in the Australian and State spheres, wherever relevant and possible. The second is that we should try to make a renewed effort to see that newly arrived workers know their rights and responsibilities in terms of their awards and all the protections which they can call upon when they need them. 
The utilisation of hostel accommodation has been under constant review with my colleague the Minister for Housing who has direct responsibility for the care and control of hostels. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do not blame the the honourable members of the Australian Country Party who sit in what I call the sectional corner in this chamber for being upset. Obviously, when the Australian Farmers Federation in solemn conference rejects them and rejects their point of view and the newspapers of the nation have such headlines as Country Party is Fooling Fanners' and Farmers Rebuff the Country Party', they are embarrassed because what they have been saying over the last few months to the people in the cities is that the countryside is still in the state of recession it was in when the Government changed. I just remind members of the Country Party and members of the Parliament generally that last year across the Australian countryside there was a recession which had been created by the previous Administration and sustained by it, and we inherited that situation. 
In the last few months we have been attempting to get the countryside moving again. 
We have instituted a series of measures. But there has been a continuing program to suggest that the Australian countryside at the present time is still somehow slumped in recession. I took note of some of the words that were used by Country Party members. As a matter of fact we heard so many of them. We heard such words as 'savage' and 'brutal'. It is incredible the number of expressions that have been used to describe what is happening in the countryside at this time. Of course this was not the story when hardship in fact existed in the Australian countryside. At that time the members of the sectional group sat silent. They said nothing. They voted against measures to alleviate the situation once faced in the countryside. When the Government changed, no credit was available, there was very little hope and there was the greatest queue of bankrupts we had seen in a whole generation. But now that the Government has changed, suddenly with the prosperity that there is now in the countryside, the Government comes in for criticism, presumably because of the prosperity. It is interesting to see what the farm income is likely to be for the financial year 1973-74. It is estimated that it will rise to $2,885m, a rise of 52 per cent since the change of Government. 
What has happened is that the members of the Country Party are trying to paint a false picture, but what concerns me about these sectional gentlemen is that they are giving the impression to the Australian people, who are mostly in the cities, that the currency of protest has been so debased that no one from the countryside can be believed in the future. How can a man, when his income is better than it has ever been before, complain that it is not? How can we pretend that there is a recession, that there is a depression, when in fact there has been the greatest recovery that we have seen for years? What concerns me is that members of the Country Party are making fools of the people in the countryside, not of course in their own eyes in their little rural ghettos, but in the sense that they destroy the chance of helping a genuine case of hardship when it is put forward. Of course there are pockets of hardship; of course there are problems to tackle; of course there are things to be done. But after hearing the debasement of the currency of protest by the extravagant language and the inadequate expression of opinion that we hear from members of the Country Party on minor matters, we find that the genuine case has already been destroyed because of their being extravagant and being in fact the worst propagandists since  Dr Joseph  Goebbels met his untimely end, or perhaps it was a timely end, in the bunker in Berlin. Frankly, I thought that Goebbels was without offspring, but I must say to the members of this Parliament that I believe his children are well represented, all of them, in terms of propaganda, because really the performance of the Country Party in the last few months has been pathetic. 
We have talked about rural credit. As a matter of fact a member of this Parliament stood here today and said he was having difficulty getting credit. I do not want to mention his name, because he might be having difficulty, but that is because of his own particular situation. At the present time rural credit is available, whereas it was not before. Let us just have a look at what has happened. After 15 years the first increase in the first advance payment on wheat has been granted. The former Government was in office for the whole of the 15 years during which there was no increase in the first advance payment. Then there was acceptance of our proposal for a national storage reserve for wheat for the first time. So of course we circumvented the repressive quota wheat rationing system of the former Government, which incidentally the State governments still retain. Of course, the first independent inquiry into wheat freight rates ever held is now being undertaken by the Bureau of Transport Economics. We have released further funds for rural reconstruction. There have been bankruptcies, of course. The Rural Assistance Board in New South Wales was itself in need of rural assistance. It had no money; it had not had any for 6 months when we came to office. The Board has money now. An initial sum of $4 8m has been made available, with an offer to provide more to the States on a $1 for $1 basis if the States feel that it is necessary. This has been done. 
We have released in addition $20m for farm credit through the Commonwealth Development Bank, again as a first instalment of further new initiatives for rural credit. We did this. We provided the first assistance ever granted to isolated children in country areas. The former Government had been in power for a quarter of a century, but those who are now bleating about the isolated people did nothing for them. Over the years members in this House talked about how iniquitous the tariffs were, how dreadful they were and how burdensome they were, but the former Government never did anything about them. We did. We reduced them across the board by 25 per cent. I heard one honourable member in the sectional corner say that the tariff reductions would put thousands of people out of work, and then he thought that perhaps there are not thousands of people out of work right now but that they will be out of work. Actually I think only 22 people have sought assistance following the cut in tariffs, so the honourable member to whom I refer should do his homework a bit better. Then of course we have set up the machinery to investigate cases where the tariff benefits are not being passed on to primary producers who purchase imported items. 
That has been done but of course any publicity of this fact has been suppressed in the countryside because it is not in the interests of sectional groups to have the people they are supposed to represent know what has been done and know what their rights are. We have introduced these measures but members of the Country Party have suppressed information about them. Of course, we also saw for several years the idea of repressing production. We talked about clip management of wool - that was a little euphemism for in fact bringing in rationing of wool. That is what we will have - similar to what was done with wheat. The Opposition did not stay in Government long enough to bring the proposal in. If the Opposition had been in Government long enough we would have had wool rationing as well as wheat rationing. I suppose then that when the Labor Party took over the administration they would have slid gently from under; but thank goodness they were out of government 
Honourable members opposite have also referred to their wonderful record. They were in government for many years. In that time a tremendous number of people moved to the cities - even between the last 2 census takings 100,000 people moved to the cities under the previous administration. This Government has made available $33m as a start on decentralisation. It is the first time that any funds have been voted from the national Parliament for decentralisation. Do members of the Opposition think that this is a good move? Do they think that it should be done? Members of the Opposition do not even have the honesty to support that. The Government was anxious to give a new deal to local government bodies in New South Wales by bringing them to the Loan Council - bringing them to the carve-up of tax revenue. So what do Opposition members say: 'Oh no, we cannot have that*. 
Yes,  Mr Chairman.  I wish to mention one other item before I come back to a particular point I want to make in the time that is available to me. The Government has negotiated long term stability for the wheat industry by the magnificent and successful negotiations with China. That has been done and these are matters for the record. None of these facts has been acknowledged by Opposition members. They have been very carefully suppressed. These facts have been suppressed behind a barrage of the most primitive abuse that I have ever heard in this Parliament. As a matter of fact, I have been thinking of asking the  Speaker  to circulate to the sectional group in the corner a book of unparliamentary terms because their terms are becoming repetitious. I think those honourable members to whom I refer could use some new terms. Unfortunately I do not have the time to answer all the interjections, but may I say that the tribal rock musical continues unabated. 
In conclusion, it is time that we had a look at the consumer price index. In the 60 seconds available to me it is not possible to put forward a considered case on this matter but I suggest that it is not totally relevant to the cost of living and it certainly does not reflect the realities of the situation. I draw attention to the fact that when the potato and the onion are given a status which they do not really reserve in the national diet, it is time that we had something a little different from the present consumer price index. 
I table a statement relating to Vietnamese and Cambodian orphans and their adoption by Australian couples. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Provision of the information requested would involve detailed examination of records of all rural subsidy schemes, involving a great number of individual transactions administered in some cases through nongovernment organisations - for example, the butter and cheese bounty is paid to individual producers through factories. A comparison would have to be made with lists of Senators and Members of Parliament because they would not be identified as such in the payment records. There could be no certainty that the information would be fully accurate and comprehensive, when the possibilities of partnerships, private companies, etc., are taken into account. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and(2) The names of the dairy companies involved in the manufacture of dairy products in Australia, and the amounts received from each company during 1972-73, in respect of the butter fat levy and the dairying research levy are set out below. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the answer to the honourable member's question as follows: 
There is a shortage of all wire products, including baling wire at present. 
(a) The level of imports has increased compared with previous years but contributes a comparatively small quantity to overall supply. The shortage is world-wide and the high price and long delivery times quoted by overseas suppliers have restricted imports. 
Australian Wire Industries Pty Ltd is the major supplier of wire products. The basic reason for the Company's inability to increase production to meet demand has been a shortage of labour. Output has also been affected by Industrial disputes and power restrictions. The supply of feedstock from BHP is not an inhibiting factor. It should be noted that the majority of bales are tied with twine rather than wire. 
I understand the concern of the honourable member in relation to this case because the Australian citizen concerned, I think, comes from his electorate. I know that there has been a great deal of sympathy and interest in her predicament which arose out of the abduction of her child Rudi in July this year by her Austrian husband. The difficulty in this case is the difficulty in so many cases, a difficulty of dual nationality which I might describe as one of the curses of citizenship throughout the world. It must have given a great deal of encouragement to a great many people that the Prime Minister was able to deal with this matter in a most useful and constructive way in the People's Republic of China. I would hope that the example might be followed throughout the world. 
Officers of the Department of Immigration, officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the embassy in Vienna have given all possible assistance to  Mrs Weber  in the presentation of her case to the Austrian courts to endeavour to have her son returned to Australia. The last report which I received indicated that she had had very good access - in fact, I think she had seen her little boy 4 times in a week - and the embassy and all the officers concerned were given every form of assistance in the presentation of her case to the Austrian authorities that she be reunited with her child and bring him back to Australia. I would hope that we would make considerable progress in future not only in this case but in all cases in which families find themselves in this sort of situation as a result of dual nationality. It would be a modest ambition, I would think, of most members of this Parliament, and certainly the Government, that all nations would follow the Australian example of recognising one citizenship and one allegiance. 
In speaking to this measure, I must say that there are of course members in the House who have a genuine interest in the problems of the fruit industry. We have also been treated to the usual cascade of political abuse from the members of the former Administration, which, I might say, saw the fruit industry in a strait jacket for years, with returns that have scarcely improved in some areas over a whole period of 10 years under its past policies and past practices, which we reject. I am pleased to make an announcement in connection with this matter. The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  was advised today, following his inquiries, that discussions with the industry indicate that major aerated water manufacturers, with one possible exception, have honoured their forward contracts and have continued to order juice. With sales already made, the industry's stock position is no longer as serious as was alleged 2 months ago. So we have a factual report there. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  made a statement which seemed to me to be completely out of touch with developments and completely out of date. He referred to the terrible position of the citrus industry. He must be referring to the solitary tree in his backyard, because the situation in the citrus industry is that we in fact face an unprecedented demand for citrus at the present time, and there will be some incentive to increase production. Then we were told that the whole of the decentralised juice industry had been so severely hurt since the Budget that all was lost almost. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said that it had been dealt a death blow. Since the Budget, in my own area, 4 new juicing plant projects have reached the stage of negotiating for finance, another family firm project is under way and another is in the process of formulation. In addition to this one of the major citrus juice processors in the nation has just announced a 5-fold expansion in the present financial year. As a matter of fact just the other day I had the privilege of squeezing the twenty-millionth orange after one year's operation in this processor's plant. I am pleased to say that it came from the Riverina. 
If the honourable member wants to be squeezed he will have to wait his turn. This processor has a plant which in this year will squeeze 100 million oranges, 5 times the number processed last year. This is the sort of development that is going on. The development which is proceeding bears no relationship to the debased currency of protest that we hear from the Opposition. The cries of doom against this measure are absolutely ludicrous. In fact all honourable members opposite are doing is undermining industry confidence and doing nothing positive for the people whom they are supposed to help. 
We have talked about citrus juice. We will go on to some of the other problems. One honourable member opposite made an interesting reference to  Dr Coombs.  He said that he was hopelessly bad in his advice and it was a terrible thing that the Government did not take it. I am not quite sure how he managed to span that in logic. But still, seeing that it came from the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who once voted against himself, all I can say is that it is his best statesmanlike act in his parliamentary career. Then there was a reference to the New South Wales lemon industry. This was held up as an example of the problems we have today. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, coming from the tombs of Melbourne, says that the New South Wales lemon industry is in a terrible state. Seeing that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seems to me so much out of touch I would be delighted to explain to him that the New South Wales Lemon Board put forward a proposition and that this proposition was accepted. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in fact found funds to make it possible for juicing lemons that were available to be taken in, and the proposition will be part of a new promotion. So that problem has been solved and the New South Wales Lemon Board has expressed its thanks for the action that was taken. So we have brought the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition up to date on that matter. 
The Treasurer said in the Cabinet room, he said in the Caucus, he said in the Parliament and he said publicly that S25m was involved in this operation and that $5m at the very most was earmarked to go to growers. What he said, of course, is that that is available to ensure that the growers are in no way disadvantaged. It has been pointed out that we will be able to take the opportunity to take new initiatives that will take the growers out of the strait jacket of the past when they were tied to a procedure which took their product and denatured it. I think it was the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  who said that the processors took the growers' product and made it a tasteless water which seemed to him to be a prostituted drink. I think that is right. There was no nature in it. I agree with his description. Therefore what we have in mind is to help with the new initiatives. The money is there; the action has already been taken; the goodwill has already been demonstrated. This means, of course, not only improving our consumption at home but in fact breaking into new export markets, and these are being looked at now. The industry has an opportunity to do better than it has in the past when returns were only marginal. In fact there has not been a really significant increase in the returns to some growers for something like 10 years. It is not good enough. So the opportunity can be taken to do more. But to talk about death and doom is really the height of exaggeration. It ignores the things that have already been done. It ignores the opportunities that are available. If honourable members opposite had ceased with their politics for just a moment and put forward constructive suggestions for developments at home and overseas this would have been most welcome. I suggest that, instead of just reiterating day after day things that are palpably untrue, it would be a far better service to the rural community of Australia if some constructive views were put forward, lt is not just enough to have progaganda all the time. 
I notice - I will just refer to this briefly - there was a reference to an announcement that I made myself in my own electorate about the assurances, very welcome assurances, given by the Treasurer which will of course stand throughout Australia. These were very reasonable. They were based on his published statements. I make an appeal to rural members opposite who have some genuine interest in their constituents not to debase the whole of national debate with untruths. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who made the reference, issued a statement which I hope he will repudiate. A report of it appeared in one of the most left wing journals, I suppose, in the nation known as the 'Pastoral Times' of Deniliquin, a very rabid journal indeed. The report is an example of the sort of thing that comes out in an improper way. The honourable member is reported as saying: 
The Labor Government has surrendered to overwhelming opposition and dropped its proposal for a meat export tax or quota - 
Then he is reported as saying: 
The Cabinet rejected the tax but agreed to a quota, which the Caucus overruled. 
That is a string of untruths and fairy tales. I am sure that the honourable member must have been misquoted, because he knows very well that an all-Party committee brought down a recommendation which was rejected by the Cabinet, rejected by the Caucus, rejected by the Government. Yet the honourable member is reported as speaking in a way which is in fact a dishonest way. I hope that he will take the opportunity to correct the report. This sort of debate in the countryside does no good at all. It in fact ignores what is happening at the moment, which is that the countryside is rising from its knees after being in a recession under the last administration. 
There are opportunities for improvement in the juicing industry. There are opportunities to take advantage of a situation where there is available $Sm which would not have been otherwise available directly to stimulate consumption at home and abroad. I am confident that the Treasurer will honour his commitment to the full. Where constructive proposals have been put forward, as in the case of the New South Wales Lemon Board not only have the proposals been accepted but the money has been made available and the industry is moving forward and has expressed its appreciation. What a contrast that is to the miserable comments made for political reasons by members opposite. I really think it is time that members of the House of Representatives had a proper debate on some of these matters instead of the verbal diarrhoea which has stained the chamber in recent weeks. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government decided to pay adjustment assistance to growers of export apples and pears following consideration of the position of rural industries seriously affected by the revaluation of the Australian dollar in December 1972. The payment is at the rate of 30 cents per bushel on each grower's average exports in 1971 and 1972 with a maximum payment to any grower of $1,500. 
Payments of adjustment assistance are being effected as quickly as possible. Payments have so far been made to over 3,000 growers of fresh apples and pears and canning fruits in all States, with total payments amounting to about $1,600,000. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. .-e nature of the activities which have caused me concern would be known to the honourable member as a result of his experiences as a former Minister for Immigration. 
Education: Pre-school Centres (Question No. 889) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following are details of the expenditure and countries in which direct advertising is permitted and in which my Department has advertised directly in the Press to attract migrants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have discussed a campaign to attract home Australians working overseas with my Department and arranged for specific initiations to be considered. 
As a result a revised procedure whereby Australians who had left here permanently and who had spent some years abroad, might return here as assisted migrants is nearing completion. When it is introduced shortly it will receive moderate publicity in those areas in which it is likely to be most fruitful. Beyond this its cost, apart from the expenditure on passage assistance, will be minimal. 
Public Service: Transfer to Albury-Wodonga (Question No. 1045)  Mr Snedden  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided in the broad sense as to which Departments are to be involved in transfers to Albury-Wodonga. 
If not, why not, and when is a decision likely to be forthcoming. 
Has the Joint Consultative Committee on the movement of Australian Public Service staff to AlburyWodonga been established. 
If not, why not, and when is it likely to be established. 
It is true that, in the report which I tabled, grave concern was expressed about the inadequacy of translating and interpreting facilities in this country. 1 might say that this is a sad state of affairs after 25 years of a very great migration program. The position is that a great need exists at present to have proper professional standards for interpreters and translators, together with proper pay and conditions for those persons. There should be a professional body to which they can all belong and which can police such standards to safeguari them and also to safeguard the people in that profession. 
I have been having some discussions within the Department as to whether or not it would be possible to set up in Canberra a national school of interpreters. I think that this would give an opportunity to develop proper national standards for a service which is a basic need in our community at present. In fact, the discussions are continuing. The objectives are clear. I have had talks with some people already in the profession in the various States. I would hope to be in a position to make a report quickly to the honourable member and to the House on some of the progress we hope to make. I would hope to do that certainly by the new year. 
It is true that the task force has recommended the use of hostels as orientation centres. I think also there was a suggestion that a survey should be made of the problems of single migrants. It is certainly desirable that orientation centres should be set up and that some courses in orientation should be given to people coming to Australia to enable them to settle in more easily. I do not believe that we should wait until a survey is completed to undertake this particular work. It is my intention that orientation courses should be established in selected hostels in various parts of Australia. I should say that we could incorporate some of the suggestions concerning a survey of single migrants in some of the survey work which is now proceeding. The important matter to be resolved at the moment is how long the orientation courses should be and what their content should best be in the interests of people coming to Australia. I intend to refer the matter of orientation courses, their content and the length of time they should occupy, to the Immigration Advisory Council. The honourable member and the House can be assured that selected hostels will be used for orientation courses to ensure that integration proceeds more smoothly and more effectively than it has done in the past. 
I very much regret the turn of the debate in Committee that has been brought about by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  One of the greatest things that we have tried to do is to take away the secrecy and dealing and wheeling of the past in relation to business and government that is well known to members on all sides of the Parliament. I am not saying that it is illegal. I am just saying that the Australian people have the right to know the sorts of things that are done and the sorts of things that are paid for. There has been a reference to outside bodies influencing government. It is a very interesting thing to me- 
I was saying before I was interrupted, in relation to the remarks that were made by the honourable member for Mackellar, if he was interested in this aspect the legislation that we are now considering I would have thought that he would deal with the fact that every year $220m is spent in our country by overseas firms to influence Australian opinion and Australian politics. 
I rise particularly in relation to the debate which is now taking place in the Committee and in relation to matters which were raised by the colleague of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who took the point of order. If he felt that these remarks were not germane to the debate I suggest that if he had any honesty in him he would have risen before when his colleague was on his feet. But I noticed that he remained silent then. Therefore he stands condemned in his seat, sitting as he does regularly to display his height in debate. I rise particularly to rebut the suggestions that were placed before this Committee by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who has just resumed his seat. I feel that the rebuttal is called for because, as you pointed out very properly,  Mr Chairman,  in accordance with the Standing Orders it should not have been dealt with. 
The only point I would make is that the point of order that has been taken by another Opposition member is surely a point of order taken in hypocrisy, because he should have taken it in relation to the honourable member for Mackellar and then I would not have risen in my place to rebut what he said. I respect the Chair and its ruling. Of course it is perfectly right and proper. The point I wanted to make was that this particular measure and the clauses to which we are addressing ourselves at the moment are designed to take the wheeling and dealing out of many of the matters that have been dealt with in the past in less than an honest manner. If that hurts members of the Opposition then it inspires me, because perhaps it means that their conscience now has changed. It has now become more tender and more susceptible to the sort of reason that is enshrined in the legislation which the Committee is considering. Quite frankly, what went on in the past in relation to many of these matters was less than desirable as far as the Australian people are concerned. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  The whole of the matter that I have been attempting to raise is a matter of principle in relation to these appointments. I notice, of course, a great deal of sensitivity by Opposition members in relation to these appointments. Perhaps they are wondering whether some of their past appointments may be up for review in various spheres. I want to make it quite plain and quite definite that any appointments that are made in a technical sphere and technical capacity by the Government should be made on technical ability and not on like sympathies of a political nature. So if we are raising the matter of political appointees I suggest that members of the Opposition go and commune with themselves and decide whether in fact over the last 25 years the majority of their appointments have not been actuated by political motives. If they come back here after a proper examination of their consciences and tell me that they are quite satisfied that they have never let political considerations actuate them in any of these matters, then I will say that they should go back to confession. 
I want to make the point that what the Government has tried to do on all occasions in the legislation that it has brought before the Parliament and which is presently before the Committee is to remove some of the political jobbery which has characterised appointments in the past. If honourable members opposite would like me to deal with this in detail I would be delighted to do so. I seem to remember that as the previous government was dying and was going to the people on 2 December last year it made a whole series of controversial appointments and placed people in office when it knew very well that it was no longer the Government - that it was a caretaker. But between the time the election was actually announced and the writs were issued and when the election took place appointments were made and confirmed. We live with those appointments today. So if honourable members opposite have anything to say about political jobbery I suggest that they look to themselves very carefully. 
I welcome the interjection by the honourable member for Mackellar. Is he defending that particular matter? Is he defending that practice? 
I might just say that this Government stands on the matter of principle in all these administrations. The honourable member for Mackellar, sitting there with his royalist rose and looking pretty - I commend him for his brightness today - has ignored the appointments made in the last week of the last Parliament. 
It is a pansy. I apologise. I just want to sum up in this way: As far as the appointments that we are debating today are concerned- 
It is our intention, following the passing of the Australian Citizenship Act, to issue new guidance on procedures for citizenship ceremonies in the future. I should like to say that in more than 800 local government areas throughout the whole of Australia there has been over the years a very fine effort made by the overwhelming majority of local government bodies and their officers to assist in the carrying out of what were known in the past as naturalisation ceremonies. 1 know that in the honourable member's area there is a very high standard. However, it is true that in one or two regrettable instances some of the people who have been representing Ministers, past and present, have not 'been too clear as to which citizenship they were conferring and in what country the recipients resided. I recall that on one occasion a shire  president  took the view that he was naturalising a group of people who were former enemies of this country and whom he would never really like. He has been long sent to his reward. I would just say in reply to some concern that has been expressed in regard to a minority of cases in which there has not been due dignity and decorum observed that following the passing of the new Act we will be making a special effort to ensure that all local government bodies are aware of the drill and procedure and which will conform to the best standards possible. 
We have taken advice on this matter following a visit to Canada and to the United States. I pay a tribute to the Canadian system of conferring citizenship by saying that it is a magnificent one. We hope to do even better in the future. I thank the honourable member for his reference to the new national anthem which will be selected next year. I think his suggestion is a very useful one. The advice will include guidance as to . its legal status, its words and, if possible, its music. I have made &lt;a search of the legislation and at the present time there is no legal Australian national anthem but I am sure that as a result of the Prime Minister's initiative we will have one next year. 
One of the great myths and legends of the Australian people is that there are always tremendous numbers of other people standing by, knocking on the door for entry to Australia. I looked into the precise position in regard to Japan when I was there very recently and I think the number of applications for permanent migration to Australia at that time was zero. But a great deal of interest has been displayed by Japanese in coming to Australia for tourist, business and education purposes. I was very happy to be able to make arrangements with the Japanese authorities to facilitate entry for all those' purposes and the new arrangements are working particularly well. 
In regard to the migration of Japanese to Australia for permanent purposes, I am afraid that those who feel that there is a great urge to come here are quite wrong. It might be as well to recall that on 2 previous occasions many years ago, I think from Queensland and South Australia, there was a suggestion that there should be special migration programs for the Japanese but on those occasions the Japanese authorities refused to co-operate because the terms and conditons were not good enough. That puts it in its historical perspective. In fact, there is very little interest in permanent migration but a great deal of interest in business, cultural and educational exchanges. We will facilitate them in every way possible. Co-operation is proceeding in a very sound and good way and I am very satisfied with the arrangements. 
I would assess - certainly it is the emphasis given by the Settlement Division of the Department of Immigration - that a man ceases to be a migrant when he becomes a citizen of Australia. Certainly the practice of describing people as migrants, newcomers or new Australians after 20 years or 27 years of being a citizen is one to be deprecated. I could never imagine, for example, addressing the honourable member for Wentworth,  Mr Bury,  as a migrant. He was bom overseas and has been a distinguished member of this Parliament and a citizen for a great many years. It would be artificial and contrived to describe him in a way which would indicate that he had arrived yesterday. In relation to the specific question asked by the honourable member, my information is that  Dr Shapiro  has been a distinguished member of the Australian community and a citizen for a great many years. I think it is not a good practice to continue these descriptions when people have joined the family of the nation; they are citizens and they should be regarded as such. I would say that when the man is a citizen, he has ceased to be a migrant, a new Australian or a newcomer. He is simply a citizen of the nation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973 my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished o know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Questions Nos 964 and 1057. 
Assisted Migrants from Italy (Question No. 983) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and &lt;3)(a). The number of assisted settlers arriving in Australia from Italy from December 1972 to June 1973 and from December 1971 to June 1972 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Young people from Asia or from any other part of the world may apply for nurses training in Australia. Their entry to Australia will be subject to their ability to meet uniform entry requirements but account will be taken of the availability of equivalent courses in their home country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From 4 December 1972 to 31 August 1973, the latest date for which reliable figures are available, 1587 assisted passage migrants had their fares paid to final destinations in non-metropolitan areas by the Government. 
All assisted passage migrants moving to nonmetropolitan areas are entitled to Government arranged transport but many are met at their arrival ports and airports by their sponsors and move privately. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures are kept of assisted settler arrivals by nationality, country of birth and country of last residence. Tables showing these figures covering the period January to June 1973 are given below. 
Figures in the form attached are available on a quarterly basis only and the Bureau of Census and Statistics does not expect to have them available for the September quarter until early December. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I stated that interest in migration to Australia had increased. I do not recall stating that immigration inquiries at Australian Government offices in the United States of America were a record. 
I said in San Francisco that - 
Americans liked Australia's new image as a sturdy independent country subservient to no one, marching to no one else's drum but seeking friendship as an equal with all others great and small. 
Proof of the interest was to be found in the increased migration inquiries in the USA, now running at 100,000 a year.' 
and (4) These figures represent inquiries from people assessed as genuinely interested in permanent settlement in Australia. Total inquiries are at a much higher level. The difference between the two figures quoted indicates the effect of the difficult employment situation which developed before the present Government took office. 
 The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  referred to the propensity of weevils to multiply. I had thought that they demonstrated that earlier this evening. Tonight in the few moments left to me in this adjournment debate I want to refer to the matter that has been raised by the honourable member. In the first instance the proposal to control weevils in wheat is a most important one for consideration. The proposal before the Government was in fact a limited proposal to appoint an additional 44 inspectors to be paid for not only by the Australian Government but by imposing a levy on wheat growers. So the wheat growers would in fact pay for 44 more inspectors. The interesting point is that according to the agreement - the very limited agreement - reached within the 
Australian Agricultural Council inspectors were to be precluded from doing anything other than looking at silos handled by the various State grain elevator boards. I might say that those silos are already very carefully examined by the staff members of those boards. So those inspectors were going to be limited in doing a job which in fact they expected was to be carried out in the first instance. 
The decision by the Australian Government was simply to refer this matter back to the Agricultural Council to have it properly examined again to ensure that the wheat growers were not being asked to pay a further tax or to make a further contribution to appoint additional people to run around the countryside with the status of inspector whilst at the some time being prevented from doing the job. I suggest that the situation is not quite in the terms referred to tonight by the honourable member. It should be clearly understood that there is concern. It should be clearly understood that there is an opportunity for the Agricultural Council to have a look at this proposition again to ensure that wheat growers are not in fact being called upon to pay a further tax which will be used to appoint an additional 44 inspectors who will be operating in a severely restricted way and who would not in fact be able to do the job that I think the industry would like them to do. This is the position at the present time. I welcome the opportunity to put the record straight. 
Australia's immigration program is totally and completely nondiscriminatory and based, in fact, on the assessment of individuals and not on their racial background, the pigmentation of their skin or their religion. In advertising we move into a realm which is dictated very much by the response of the countries concerned. In certain instances - in fact, in many instances - we are discouraged from undertaking such advertising. In other instances we are specifically prohibited from undertaking such advertising. So for reasons of goodwill and good neighbourliness we must proceed on a basis that the governments of other countries will accept. That is a responsible position and one to which we adhere. One of the things that happened with the change of administration and my own assumption of office was that I cancelled the advertising program which had been running, I thought on wrong lines, in the United Kingdom and on which in 1971-72 we spent $522,000. The advertising was selling Australia like selling soap. It indicated that we were offering some kind of instant paradise. Tn the last few months this procedure resulted in many letters from British migrants saying that they felt that it was misleading. So, in fact, that campaign with that procedure was suspended. 
We had to look responsibly on what ought to be done, and in 1972- 73 our expenditure on advertising in the United Kingdom was of the order of $182,000. This year it will be marginally above that figure. 
The whole of the emphasis of the present campaign is entirely different. It is designed to be responsible in giving facts with the invitation to people that we wish to come to Australia. There have been some interjections by the Leader of the Opposition. Per haps his conscience is pricking him a little because of the returnees in the last 5 years running at 25 per cent. This situation was revealed by an investigation that his own administration authorised, so I should think that his conscience would prick him on this matter. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the first report of the Migrant Task Force of South Australia, together with a brief resume of the report. 
 It has been suggested in some quarters that the estimates for the Department of Immigration might be reduced, that the expenditure should be down as the intake is down and that somehow Parkinson's law should apply.  Mr Parkinson  does not work in the Department of Immigration. But the confusion is understandable. The estimates under consideration are not merely those of the Department of Immigration because our Department covers not only immigration but also emigration, settlement and welfare, citizenship and population. I really think that the name of the Department is long overdue for a change to make its functions plain. 
The appropriation this year, as has been (noted by honourable members, shows an increase of $ 10.25m. Of course the reason for this is the new emphasis on welfare and settlement services. The honourable member of Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  who has just spoken, very rightly expressed concern about the returnee rate and the fact that the program was tending to bleed to death. I think the figures speak for themselves. We have certainly tried to reverse that trend. I would hope in this year that we will reduce the returnee rate by something like 5,000. But there is also an increased expenditure on migrant education, a considerably increased expenditure on welfare services and in addition to that we have appointed 48 multilingual welfare officers as another part of the new effort to ensure happier and more successful settlement. 
We have increased the number of assisted passages this year from 57,000 to 60,000. That will cost nearly $lm. This will facilitate family reunion and more successful settlement. In relation to passports - this is an aspect of the Department's activities that is often overlooked - more than one million people leave Australia every year and one million people enter Australia for all sorts of purposes. It is interesting to note that the number of passports issued within Australia have more than doubled since 1968-69 and increased by 379 per cent in the last 10 years. In the year 1972-73 more than 250,000 passports were issued. This figure is rising again. There was a time when it took 2 weeks to get a passport. These days, under procedures that we have adopted, it takes 72 hours. Extra staff and overtime have been needed to achieve this result, but it is a public service and it has been given and given gladly. So there is a difference there. 
References have been made to the level of the program. This year there is a proposed intake of 110,000 migrants. Last year it reached 107,000 or a little more. In fact, this was not even the target, but in the last quarter of the year we made an all out effort and that was the end result. This year the expectation hardly goes as high as that. One may well ask, why. I think I should quote a single advertisement that appeared in Britain which, of course, has provided up to half the migrants to Australia for a great many years. In Britain, among advertisements for Australia or by Australian agencies, States and governments, there are advertisements from France, Italy, Holland, Luxembourg, Germany and Belgium. Those advertisements offer attractions like wages for metal workers of various categories of Stg75 a week with free fares and full social and health insurance free. Two return trips a year to the home country are included in the offer. Australia cannot match those things and it would be stupid to try to do so. Our industry cannot do so. Our public services are not geared in that way at the moment. It would be wrong to advertise an instant paradise. We do not intend to do that. 
We intend to pitch our advertising program on the basis of helping to build a better Australia and helping to pioneer a community and a nation still in the making. This means that we have to put ourselves forward warts and all. We must tell the story, give the facts and then invite people to this country on the basis that our future is unlimited, that we want to build that future now. We should not deceive or oversell. If that is done, unhappiness will be imported. Malcontents will be with us ultimately to be lost to us as was the case in recent years. The points made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  were well made in many instances though I think that generally there is a lack of understanding of the fact that there is not an inexhaustible supply of people waiting to come to Australia. That is just not true. We have to be responsible in our approach. The Government is trying to do that. The end result will be better for us and for the migrants. 
I make one other point in relation to staffing overseas. Of course there have been adjustments. In times past the period for interview was 20 minutes. We were in effect selecting migrants like sausages with 20 minutes to have a look at them. After a few words had been exchanged in that 20-minute period the decision was made. That is not really good enough. What we are doing now under our structured assessment system is spending up to one hour, sometimes much more, with the applicant to ensure that there is a better deal for the migrant and for the counsellor. We are endeavouring to ensure that there is less unhappiness in order to bring about a reduction in the return rate. Those are the reasons why the estimates are of the order of an increase of more than $10m this year. I do not apologise for that. It indicates a program designed to bring about henceforth migration without tears, for the benefit of the migrant and for the greater development of Australia. . 
If a person holds a valid passport, he can come and go as an Australian citizen without any let or hindrance. If he applies for a further passport certain requirements have to be met which are designed mainly to ensure that no matrimonial difficulties have arisen in the meantime and to ensure also that protection is given to children. The honourable member might know that one of the difficulties that we have been encountering in recent times as a result of the increased mobility of the population is that when there is a breakdown of a marriage there is a tendency for one of the partners to decamp with the children. There have been great difficulties in this respect; there are scattered across the world in a number of countries separated parents and children who are presently the subject of international litigation in which my Department is involved because the parents, being Australian citizens, turn to the Department and request help from it. I would say that I know of no unnecessary formalities, but if the honourable member feels that we could undertake some further streamlining of procedures, I would be delighted to do it. However, during the debate on the Estimates yesterday I did say that passports are, now being issued, on average, in 72 hours as compared with 14 days some years ago. 
It is not true that the easy visitor system which I introduced earlier this year has been suspended. It continues in all but a limited number of locations where the system was suspended because of the situation that existed in regard to international terrorists. I am pleased to say that generally speaking the system is working well. It is still in force and it has brought from some areas a considerable increase in the number of visitors. I stress that the system can proceed only on the basis that those who come as visitors fulfil the conditions of their visit and return at the end of it. The visas are not interchangeable. I add that I am particularly pleased with the precautions that have been taken in certain locations where there have been international tensions and a danger of terrorist activities. Those precautions have kept Australia free from incursions which might otherwise have taken place. So in conjunction with other agencies of state I am particularly pleased with the success of the continuing precautions that we will take there. That means that in a limited number of locations the easy visitor system will continue to be suspended. But generally speaking the system is in operation; it is working well. 
In recent months a number of rackets have been uncovered by the officers of the Department of Immigration which have involved bringing people to this country in circumstances which are clear exploitation of migrants. Four locations are involved. The honourable member mentioned Columbia. It is true that something approaching twenty, from memory, Columbians, have come to Australia in circumstances which indicate that a racket was perpetrated in regard to their arrival here. The whole of that particular matter is under investigation at the present time. I have had representations from the Consul-General for Colombia who has entered a plea on behalf of the people concerned. I might add that I think that all members of the Parliament would have deep sympathy for the people who were the victims and who are here at the present time, unfortunately illegally. The racket did not involve any Australian officials. There is no Australian representation in Colombia, and matters there are handled by another Embassy on our behalf. We have taken quick steps to isolate the abuses in Colombia and to try to end the racket there. I am considering what further steps might be taken in Colombia to ensure that Australian procedures are recognised and that the people are protected. As for the migrants who have arrived, I will take into account the honourable member's plea for compassion as far as they are concerned, and when we are in a position to make a determination I will let the honourable member know. 
Following the suggestion that was advanced by the honourable member, I did take up with my colleagues in relevant Australian Government departments the matter of checking whether their employees who were migrants had been given adequate access to English classes. After all, I have been saying, and I believe most sincerely, that all major components of industry that are employing migrants should provide language facilities for them, at least the time. The Department of Immigration will help them with the teachers and with the material, but at least the time should be made available in the workshops. The suggestion by the honourable member that the Australian Government should set the example seemed to me to be reasonable. 
I am pleased to say this morning that the Minister for the Capital Territory who was Acting Minister for Repatriation has taken very quick action in relation to this matter. He has advised me that he discovered that, in the Repatriation Department, more than 1,000 migrants from 60 different countries are employed. Approximately 120 of those employees have an inadequate knowledge of English. I understand from that Department that an instruction has gone forth to regional directors to provide facilities for those employees to catch up on the language. I also understand from my colleague, the PostmasterGeneral, that he is engaged in a similar action in the Postmaster-General's Department. I hope to hear from my other colleagues in due course. I must compliment the honourable member for Mitchell on his suggestion which is bearing good fruit. 
I cannot confirm or deny the gastronomic delights enjoyed by  Mr Barton  and his family at present. But I did have a report that he was in Europe. This is the second inquiry that I have had regarding this gentleman. The first was a query as to whether he had in fact left the country. I made inquiries at that time, and he undoubtedly left the country on an Australian passport to proceed, in the first instance, to Hong Kong. He has an Australian passport; he is an Australian citizen. There was no hindrance to his leaving at that time because he had not been found guilty of any crime and there had been no report or action to prevent his departure by the New South Wales Government which, I think, has the major involvement in the prosecutions in this matter. So, as far as my officers were concerned, he proceeded overseas with all the rights and privileges of an Australian citizen. I would add, however, that great concern has been expressed about an Australian citizen who has been accused, I think, of being the Australian equivalent of Ronald Biggs. It was a slightly different operation, but the end result was the same. I cannot comment on that because the matter has not yet been brought before the courts-- 
An important point has been raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. If any inquiry has been initiated and is already in train, I make no further comment on the gentleman or his activities. I am not sure about that fact, so I will refrain from saying anything more along those lines. There are well defined procedures for extradition from certain countries of any Australian citizen who is required by the due processes of law in our country. In view of the gravity of the charges which have been made here and the discussion generally, I will give the honourable member for Hunter an undertaking now to inquire immediately as to the status of this gentleman, as to the status of his passport and whether any action should be taken. 
 I rise to address myself particularly to the remarks that have been made about section 31a of the Act. I want to say that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  was technically correct in the propositions that he put forward. But I would draw attention to the fact that the whole thrust of the Opposition's stand in relation to this measure has been that the whole of the Government's policy should rest on section 31a and the brandy differential and on that basis everything would be satisfactory. I want to put to the Committee the point of view that everything has not been satisfactory in the wine and brandy industry for some considerable time. In fact, over the last quarter of a century the industry has had more crises than booms and it has had quite a few near busts. Steps have been taken to correct the crises from time to time. A whole series of ad hoc decisions have been made. Indeed some of the legislative provisions in regard to this industry were introduced as ad hoc decisions. 
As far as I am concerned, and as far as supporters of the Government who are interested and involved in this industry are concerned, it would be completely unacceptable to allow the pattern of decision making of the past to continue. Decisions sometimes have been made by the Tariff Board, sometimes by the Treasury, sometimes made by the Department of Customs and Excise and sometimes by the Department of Primary Industry. The end result has not been justice to the growers in terms of their returns and this is not the sort of stability which is good for any industry. I suppose I represent the largest wine grape industry in the whole of New South Wales and one which is the best in the nation. I am dedicated to see that this industry is on a proper and stable basis. We must, of course, end the ad hoc approaches and not rely on passing concessional measures which can be varied. 
The Leader, of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  I think said that I was concerned about the repeal of the wine tax. Of course I was concerned about it. It was another ad hoc measure, and I would be concerned about any ad hoc measure taken by any government which, left on its own, would bring hardship to growers and instability to the industry. But I point out that the Leader of the Australian Country Party, in his remarks in this House earlier, referred to the fact that there was a need not to rely on taxation concessions alone. In fact he said that there was a need for a thorough-going review and for decisions to be taken in the long term. That was a very statesmanlike submission and I commend it to the consideration of the Committee, because that is exactly what the Government has in mind. It must be done and decisions have to be made in the long term. The policies that are laid down for this industry have to follow the pattern of policies" we have worked on for all other major industries. 
When this Administration came to office there was a rural recession which had been in existence for 5 years under policies of the previous Administration - policies which have been referred to in this Committee in terms which indicate that they were almost holy writ. Well, they were not holy writ last year. They were rejected by the electorate. It is amazing to me that honourable members opposite can come forward and ask for the preservation of past policies which were unacceptable and which did not do the job. There is an urgency about this. There is a vintage coming up and before then it will be necessary to take steps to unveil a proper and long term deal for the wine and brandy industry. At present we face a situation which was caused when the previous Administration unleashed a flood of foreign imports. Some of the brandy that has come into this country in the past year is not really brandy at all; it is reminiscent of a potato spirit. That is the situation which this Government has to take into account, lt is just one of the problems which have to be tackled in concert, and I do not think that we can rely on more medicine, financial or otherwise, of the kind exemplified by the decisions made by the past Administration. 
What we must do is ensure that there is an integrated deal for the whole of the industry. It has to be brought in by next year - in fact, by next season - because this is the only way in which we will obviate the hardships of the past and prevent the ad hoc-ism in decision making which has not brought benefits to the industry. It is not good enough to rely on one measure such as this, on a brandy differential or on some other ad hoc measure. It is necessary to take the whole of the industry into account and to ensure that there is some justice to growers who have not shared in the prosperity of the industry when it has enjoyed some times of prosperity. That is not good enough for them. They do not accept the position as it is today and they certainly do not accept the position as it was last year or the year before. What we are faced with at the present time is a need for a new deal for an industry which has been in trouble for some years. If we were talking in terms of simply this decision in isolation, of course there would be room for some of the exaggerated adjectives which have been used in this Committee and, more particularly, in the second reading stage. There is a need to have a review and to determine long term planning which is 25 years overdue in this industry. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is at the table at present, knows of the concern I have expressed. He knows of the discussions which have gone on in the last months of this year. So, to say that he is not aware of them at present is not true. What is more, he shares the general desire on this side of the Parliament to put decision making on an ad hoc basis to one side and to go for long term stability. I want to make only one further brief point. By their deeds we will know them. Last year the Opposition was in Government. It imposed a wine tax; we took if off. This year we have the responsibility for the harvest that is coming up, and when that harvest is completed and the arrangements made are put into effect honourable members opposite will see the thrust of our policies in contrast to the policies of the past. By their deeds we will know them. We knew the Opposition last year and the year before. The Opposition will know us because we have set out to bring stability to a whole range of industries and we have done it. 
As a matter of fact, the long term stabilisation which we have been able to bring about has already brought to the countryside a confidence which is reflected in the balance sheets of the masters of honourable members opposite - the banks, the pastoral finance companies and all the bodies which have helped to put them into office over the years. They are all making more money. They have all done extraordinarily well and have recognised the stability. The previous Government left us with a rural recession; we have brought stability and hope for the future. I do not blame honourable members opposite for getting excited. Their consciences must upset them because after all the tea and sympathy of recent years they left a countryside that was completely bankrupt in many spheres. This year the countryside is enjoying a level of prosperity it has not had before. Honourable members opposite say that it is all due to the weather; that under the Liberal and Country parties the weather was crook and under the Labor Party the weather is good. That is a pretty poor excuse for honourable members opposite to put forward. But I must give them full marks because their propaganda is more effective than I ever could have imagined. In the countryside during this period of prosperity they have preached doom and got away with it. In light they preach darkness and are successful. Even the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  personified them when he votes against his own motions. He can oppose himself and get away with it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat or I will deal with him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member to resume his seat. 
Well, would the honourable member like me- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I warn the honourable member for Angas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have warned the honourable member for Angas. If he interjects further, I will deal with him. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am glad to see some order brought out of the chaos opposite. I sum up by saying that honourable members opposite have been particularly successful in preaching doom amid prosperity; in preaching darkness amid light- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The position is not as the honourable member has put it. The situation at the present time is that there is a nondiscriminatory policy under which people can apply to come to this country and settle here if they meet the criteria which have been laid down and accepted. It has been made quite plain that we would not discriminate against anyone who happened to have completed his studies here, if he was economically viable and was otherwise eligible to stay under the criteria applying to everyone else. That is the exact situation at the present moment. There is no intention to discriminate in any way against anyone or in favour of anyone. As far as students are concerned I want to make it quite plain that the policy has been discussed with the countries in our own region and there has been agreement on what drill should be followed. Private students coming to Australia do so on the basis that they will study here and on completion of their studies will be expected to return home. They are interviewed on that basis when they first approach our missions. It is made plain at the outset that they are coming here to study with a view to getting a qualification and are then to return home. 
When they arrive here things may happen in the hearts of young men or young women and it may well be that they enter into a sincere and enduring relationship. We do not interfere with love and romance and applications for residence on that basis are considered compassionately. But at the same time whenever an application is made on the basis that they fit the criteria - I stress that again - they are counselled in accordance with the arrangements made with our neighbouring countries, that is, that they had originally undertaken to come to Australia to study and then to return home. They are reminded of the original counsel and of that undertaking. In fact we go further. We put them in touch with their own High Commissions or Embassies to ensure that they understand their responsibility. So I want to say to the honourable member that there is no confusion about the policy and there is no confusion about the drill. Every case is considered on its merits. The honourable member has raised a specific case with me. If he cares to discuss it with me on a personal basis, we can go over the ground in full detail for himself and for the person in whom he is interested. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to clear up points raised by the honourable member for Hunter and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party at question time yesterday. I undertook, in answers to both honourable gentlemen, to make urgent inquiries about  Mr Alexander  Barton, and I have done so.  Mr Barton  was issued with an Australian passport on 12 May 1969. The passport is valid for 5 years. No request has been received from the New South Wales Government for any action in relation to the passport or for  Mr Barton's  extradition. My inquiries indicate that the Barton group of companies was under investigation by the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales. It is not clear whether that investigation is continuing, but I am trying to establish that point. If a subsequent request is made by the New South Wales Government or its agencies in relation to the passport, I promise honourable members prompt action in the public interest.  Mr Barton's  passport in any case will come up for review in May next year. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
million bushels 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
This matter is under active consideration. It was raised at the recent meeting of the Australian Fisheries Council in Rabaul and the Minister for Primary Industry has sought' industry views through the Australian Fishing Industry Council. 
The Government is aware of the problems facing Australian fishermen in obtaining long term loans for boats, equipment and gear. This Government has already said that it will assist in the provision of equipment and facilities required to develop fisheries based on established resources. Availability of long term loans could be one of several methods to assist the industry and is currently under consideration by the Government. 
It is true that there has been a resurgence of interest in migration to Australia in the Americas, both North and South. In view of the fact that we have not had the same level of interest in recent years from traditional sources, such as Great Britain and Italy, the resurgence of interest in the Americas is most welcome. I take this opportunity to say that it is good to know that the interest in the traditional areas is still maintained. We have present in the precincts of the House today the Italian  Deputy  Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Grianelli.  I am sure we are all very happy to see him in the Gallery today. 
Honourable members - Hear, hear! 
To reply specifically to the honourable member, it has been a matter of concern to this Government and to the past Administration that there should be better communications for migration and other purposes with South America. I am pleased to say that negotiations which were begun as long ago as 1971 have reached fruition and the first of a series of charter flights will arrive at 6 o'clock, I think, in Sydney on 1 December. These flights will not only bring people from Chile, Argentina, Uruguay and other areas but they will also be able to take back relatives and friends for visits to South American countries. This will facilitate family connections. It will be good for all of the people who have been concerned. I am delighted to report the success of those arrangements for charter flights directly to Australia from South American countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 2 December 1972 no applications for Australian citizenship have been refused as a result of Australian security reports. 
See answer to (1). 
Every task force that has so far reported to me on migrant matters in all the States has emphasised that the first priority is to correct some of the grave deficiencies in migrant education. The survey to which the honourable member has referred was jointly sponsored by the Australian Government and the Victorian Government and referred to inner city schools, particularly in Melbourne. So the need has been validated by both governments. At the meeting of Immigration Ministers in Adelaide just recently, it was unanimously accepted that a new thrust and a new effort would have to be made to correct some of the serious deficiencies in migrant education. 
The situation is that classes are being held in some instances in shower recesses. In one Queensland school the language class for migrant children is held in a cellar, and there is a series of desks made out of trestle tables. The need is urgent. There is no doubt that there is a need to implement urgently the recommendations of the Interim Comittee of the Australian Schools Commission, and any delay in bringing about these desirable improvements will bring widespread and deep resentment and, I think, would be opposed by all of the State Ministers who also are concerned to see improvements in this direction. 
It is probably appropriate that the honourable member has asked me this question as, just a few days ago while in Victoria, I saw a copy of a text book that he has just written for schools. My daughter, aged 10 years, enjoyed reading every page of it. The honourable member has asked whether we can do something about recording the history of immigration properly in an authoritative volume. I am pleased to say that within the Department of Immigration, thoughts that have been nurtured for some time have come to fruition in the History Section, which is at present engaged in gathering material together. I am at present considering a submission that would enable the commissioning of a history of immigration. I am sure that all former Ministers would like to see that done, because it is a great national project that has lasted as long as the history of our people and country. I am hoping that this can be done, perhaps in the new year. A list of 47 academics, authors and writers has been compiled and I hope that from that list a selection can be made to commission a history of immigration and the Australian people. 
It is true that two reports about the illegal introduction of domestic servants have been widely disseminated. The first referred to .the importation of island girls for sweated labour - I think that is what it amounted to - and the other referred to reports that people who had come here and had been encouraged to come here as visitors were then being improperly employed in domestic service. I have already ordered an immediate investigation into both reports. No evidence has been placed before me at the present time, but it would seem timely for this warning to be issued: If any silvertail is tempted to accommodate and pay someone who is an illegal entrant there is a penalty that could apply - perhaps $400 or 6 months in gaol. So I would hope that the temptation of some form of domestic blackbirding would be resisted in face of the risk to those succumbing to it of becoming .guests of the state for a period and undertaking some unpaid employment. 
I want to make the point that illegal entrants involved in this kind of activity would be doing a grave disservice to themselves, because if they did not abide by the conditions of their visa entry they would be deported and they would not be considered for entry into this country for 5 years. So I would appeal to anyone who is tempted in this way to resist the temptation in the interest not only of himself but also of the entrants involved. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971, I present the annual report on migrant education for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
(10.37)  -  The Government rejects the amendment that has been put forward. The first thing that has to be said is that there must always be a recognition of the need to preserve Ministerial responsibility in matters which touch on national marketing, national planning or the execution of agreements or, indeed, any of the determinations of this Parliament. A situation could very easily arise whereby there was a sectional decision. If you abdicate all of your powers to some particular section or body you would not be able to have an integrated approach over a number of industries and a number of problems. 
Let me finish. If I can help I will do so. But I want to make it plain that the power provided in clause 7 (3) of the Bill can be viewed as a power which would be used only in unusual circumstances. This was stated by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  in his second reading speech when he said: 
It might need to be used, for example, to restrain activity by the Corporation if such activity is having serious and undesirable repercussions in important areas outside the cognizance of the Corporation. 
It may well be that the Corporation, because of its particular and sectional nature, might make decisions which would unwittingly produce damage in another industry. After all, we are talking about an inter-related industry when we speak about the apple and pear industry. There are many other industries with which people engaged in that industry are also connected. It seems reasonable that there should be a residue of power with the Minister who is responsible to the Parliament and to the nation so that he would have the power to bring about a desirable co-ordination. That is what this sub-clause is all about. What the Opposition seem to be saying is that it does not matter whether the Corporation does something which is inimical to another fruit industry; let us just have nothing to do with this situation; let it all happen. We say that this is not a responsible position. There should be a power available for co-ordination, particularly inter-industry co-ordination and national co-ordination. That is a most reasonable point of view. I put it forward in those terms on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Government. 
in reply - I accept that perhaps there is some confusion in the minds of members of the Opposition. Let me try to clear it very quickly. There may be 4 industries involved in a particular operation. One industry of the four may do something which is inimical to the other three. All this clause does is to give the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)-  of course the Minister is an instrument of the national Parliament and the Government - the power to bring in desirable co-ordination. I think that is most desirable. We reject the amendment and commend the clause to the Committee. 
Question put: 
That the sub-clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr 
Lloyd's  amendment) stand part of the clause. 
 It gives me a great deal of pleasure to find that the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Bill put forward by the Government is unanimously accepted in principle by the entire Parliament. The central point made in the debate is the statement made at the outset by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who led for the Opposition. He said that his Party did not oppose the Government's Bill and did not oppose the establishment of the Corporation. He admitted with honesty and perception that the new Corporation has wide powers to do the things which must be done and which are long overdue to be done. It might be asked: What is all this debate about? It was mainly about revaluation. Two of the revaluations referred to in the course of the debate were, of course, undertaken by the McMahon-Anthony Administration in December 1971 and half way through 1972. There was a promise of help at that time, but we found when the Government changed that there was nothing in the Treasury. Nothing had been provided and there were no Cabinet decisions to help. Nothing was provided at all. In two of the revaluations by the present Government we said that we would help the industries affected. We have helped and we have provided the cash. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  indicated when announcing the September 1973 appreciation of 5 per cent in exchange values of the Australian dollar that the Government would look sympathetically at the position of any industries which were seriously affected by the appreciation and found it particularly difficult to bear the consequences of it. A total of more than $1.3m has been paid out to date in post-revaluation adjustment assistance to the two main apple exporting States, Tasmania and Western Australia. The main point I make again is that two lots of undertakings were given and we honoured ours. The most important thing is to recognise that there is no real opposition to this measure. This measure only does in relation to this industry what must be done and what should have been done a long time ago. That is, we have to cut out the exploitive middlemen, we have to take action on freights and we have to undo some of the end results of the lethargy of 23 years. 
Let us examine the amendment? Why an amendment at all? It is not a real amendment. I submit that it is a parliamentary confession. As an alibi, it is really not good enough. It states in paragraph (a): immediate financial assistance by way of proper compensation for loss inflicted on exporters in the 1973 season by revaluations of the Australian currency; 
I have demonstrated already how that has been taken care of. We have honoured our commitments there, and we stand ready to do more. That paragraph of the amendment is totally irrelevant and totally unnecessary. Paragraph (b) states: adjustment of the stabilisation scheme to provide for increased costs and freight rates; 
I think that the honourable member for Corangamite, in leading for the Opposition, said that the Corporation will take care of just such problems. Let us be quite clear. Everyone connected with the apple and pear industry has made money out of apples and pears - except the growers. The transporters, the agents, the spray firms, the case firms, the shippers and the label makers have all done very well. Everyone except the producer has done very well. The pipeline of costs has never been tackled. It must be tackled without delay. But the difficulties with which we are confronted today are the legacy of many years of inaction. 
This Bill sets up a corporation to give the unity, the power and the authority to the industry. This Bill breaks the deadlock of donothing policies that have operated for a whole generation. There will be growers on the Corporation. The growers and their elected bodies are happy with the present arrangements. They want to be there, and they will be there. I draw attention to the fact that this Bill provides that: 
Members to represent Australian apple and pear growers shall be selected by the Minister from persons nominated by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association. 
The Bill in no way attempts to direct the Association on the manner in which it will choose its nominees. This is entirely a domestic matter for the Association. So, the point taken by the Opposition is rejected. 
The Opposition - or some parts of it - is as out of step on this measure as it was on the Industries Assistance Commission measure, which was opposed by a section of the Opposition despite the fact that the Australian Farmers Federation did not oppose it. Since the initial debate on the measure the Federation has made useful suggestions which, it has said, make it a totally attractive and acceptable measure to the primary producers of Australia. This has been our response to the problems of the industry. The Corporation opens the way for new marketing initiatives. I accept the point that the position has to change quickly. We are setting up the machinery to enable those essential initiatives to be taken - something which is long overdue. There have been many references to Tasmania. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  both said: 'Pull the trees out today and we will find ourselves in need of them tomorrow'. I accept that as a very wise piece of advice. In my own area it was suggested that the apple surplus this season would be a great embarrassment. A single decision by one processor has now wiped out the surplus and in fact we will be short of apples in this season. 
In conclusion, let me say that reference was made to the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that he had invested a sum of money in purchasing that document. I am sorry that I cannot see the honourable member in the chamber at the moment. It was a very fine document that he purchased, but 1 am afraid that it was the 1971 edition. If he would like to see me in my office afterwards, I will, with compliments and good will, provide him with the 1973 Platform, Constitution and Rules'. We are proud of the legislation. We commend it to honourable members and, what is more, we accept the real view of the Opposition, which is that this is a desirable and good measure and that the Opposition supports it. We reject the amendment as an alibi for the previous Government's list - might I say 'very long list' - of deficiencies, and we do not think it is worthy of the support of this House. 
For the information of honourable members I table a statement on the Government's citizenship and settlement policy. 
 Australians have spent most of this century seeking a national identity, but we have spent nearly ISO years looking for a national anthem. In many respects we have been painfully slow to emerge from our colonial past, and it seems that we still suffer from some colonial hangovers. 1 think this motion is one indication of that. There has been a recognition on all sides of the Parliament of the need for a distinctively Australian -national anthem. The last 2 Prime Ministers favoured a distinctively Australian national anthem. 'Last year the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  referring to 'Advance Australia Fair', said: 
I would like to congratulate you- 
It was a reference to John Laws, who favoured this song- 
I think the recording will have popular appeal and will go a long way towards engendering the kind of national spirit you are seeking to foster. 
A very good comment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  said: 
Like you, I am intensely Australian and feel it is progressively necessary to identify ourselves as a nation as distinct from the United Kingdom. 
Again a commendable sentiment. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  had a particular choice, but there was no doubt in what he said that he wished to have a distinctively Australian national anthem. 
Public opinion polls on this matter have been conducted for many years now. In 1965 the gallup polls showed that 38 per cent of the people wanted a distinctively Australian anthem. By 1967 the figure was 44.1 per cent; by 1969, 51.4 per cent; by October 1972, 72.3 per cent; and in July this year, 80 per cent. A poll released a few days ago by the Morgan gallup polls organisation indicated that support for 'God Save the Queen' as the national anthem of Australia had fallen by 3 per cent since June. So there is no doubt about the way in which the Australian people generally are feeling at the present time. In fact, it was interesting to see that the only significant section of the Australian community covered in the poll who favoured the status quo were people in their fifties. 
The search for an anthem, the desire for a distinctively Australian expression, has been going on, as 1 have said, for a very long time. It began in 1826 and since that time we have had 17 national anthem competitions. So, surely we have come of age. We can go back to the famous day of 11 April 1933 when J. T. Lang, then the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales, made it clear that he believed, even at that time, that we should have a distinctive national anthem and spoke up and spoke out for it. In recent years Australian athletes who have been participating in international events across the world and have brought great honour and laurels to Australia have come home disappointed, embarrassed and resentful because when they mounted the victory podium they were not recognised as Australians; they did not find their country given distinctive recognition. They were disappointed. Many of them have told me so, and many of them would welcome a change. I can remember vividly that when Lionel Rose, typical of the first people of Australia, met and vanquished the Japanese champion in Tokyo no distinctively Australian anthem was played and the hundreds of Australians who were present were very rightly resentful. 
Let us be quite blunt. Colonial Australians borrowed the anthem which is now normally used, but they also abused it. They played it after and at every bunfight, even weddings. I remember vividly a maternal relative of mine, who spent her early years in Glasgow in Scotland, attending her first wedding in Australia. They played it there and she thought it was a wonderful touch because she thought that the King of that time had paid for the wedding. But she had never heard it in Britain. It was not a British custom; it was a colonial custom. The position is that there is no law, no statute and no ordinance which establishes any national anthem for Australia. We have never been given permission even to borrow the one that we have used. In any case, Australians should understand the origins of the anthem that has been used. 
It began, as far as historians can gather, in about the 16th century. It became the song of the Jacobites. As a matter of fact, one line was that the King was 'soon to reign over us' - a reference to the Old Pretender, James III. 
Then the words were changed and it was adopted by the Hanovers and their supporters. It became a personal salute to George II. It became a royal anthem. At about that time it also became a tune that was adopted by the Danes. It was used as a German anthem by Prussia, Saxony, Hanover, Brunswick and Weimar. Then the Russians used it. The Swiss used it in all of their cantons. Even Liechtenstein adopted it. The United States colonies used it in one form or another before independence. They changed the words and they still use it. 
It appears that 'God Save the King' was the first piece of non-Aboriginal music performed in Australia. It was played by a drumfife band at the raising of the British flag at Port Jackson by Captain Arthur Phillip. It is notable that at the time of the First Settlement in Australia it had not gained general acceptance in Britain as a national anthem, although at that time it had been identified with the monarchy and with certain political groups. But there has never been any legislation in Australia to establish it as the national anthem. It seems to have been adopted by the various British colonies in Australia and of course it continues in this role. The honourable member for Warringah referred to the States as a group of British colonies that could still use it, as British colonies, is they wished. I would hope they would join the nation as a whole rather than opt out into some colonial backwater. 
From the history of the present anthem the following conclusions can be drawn. Its initial public acceptance was as a partisan political song. Its words had not been regarded as immutable and have been amended somewhat to suit the views of those using it. When it gained widespread popularity it was as a royal anthem, not a national anthem. At the time it was first played in Australia it had the status of a royal anthem and not a national anthem. It is not uniquely British or a Commonwealth of Nations song but it has been used extensively by composers in many nations. The large number of attempts to find a distinctively Australian anthem to replace it indicates that the Australian community has not strongly supported the existing anthem for almost 2 centuries, although some of its supporters would claim it has. 
It was against that background that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced at a magnificent meeting attended by 4,000 people - an historic meeting - at Griffith on 19 November 1972 that a poll would be held. There has been a reference to what he said at that meeting. He said: 
It's time for truly national thinking. 
In the great issues facing this nation, it's time for a national approach. 
And it's time we had our own symbols of our own nationhood. 
It's time . . . that we had our own national anthem. 
That is what was said. It was not contested. There were no protests. In fact, it was widely supported. Then on Australia Day in a special broadcast on 26 January this year the Prime Minister said: 
. I believe that a new National Anthem is needed. We feel it is essential that Australians have an Anthem that fittingly embodies our national aspirations and reflects our status as an independent nation. We need an Anthem that uniquely identifies our country abroad, and recalls vividly to ourselves the distinctive qualities of Australian life and the character and traditions of our nation. 
He also said that it is in the tradition of the present anthem that it would revert to the original tradition and that it would be used as a royal anthem. He said that when the Queen is present or when it is especially important to acknowledge our links with the Crown it would be played as a royal anthem. There was no argument about that. There were no dissenting voices. Then we moved to do exactly as had been announced. Four thousand Australians submitted the words and/ or music for a new national anthem. What a tremendous amount of interest there was. Entries came from every State. It was a wonderful effort. It showed that the people were interested; they were involved. A decision was made based on their assessment. It was decided that three of the songs - 'Advance Australia Fair', 'Song of Australia' and 'Waltzing Matilda' - should be put to the people. How was this to be done? A poll has been organised by the Bureau of Census and Statistics as part of its national household survey. All these types of surveys which involve 60,000 people in all States are based on scientifically selected samples. The surveys involve all States and people in all walks of life. This was announced on 24 October. 
At that time a pilot test for a national anthem poll had already been carried out. All is under way. The announcement to conduct the poll was made in October. It is now December. It is a little late now to hold up the process on the pretext that we should have no change again. Therefore we reject the motion because there is no substance in it, there is no general support for it in the community and, above all, it is merely another device to deny Australia a badge of independence. The wording of the motion suggests that we should bring into the poll all suggested anthems or songs. Just imagine the situation if all the suggested songs were included and the people had to decide on all of them. I can think of some good elector of mine favouring I Love Riverina Red'. 
I do not really think the suggestion that has been advanced by the honourable member for Warringah is a serious one. In fact, I regard it as absurd. I also point out that there is an urgency about this matter. We are very much a new nation at this time. Forty per cent of our" people are under 21 years of age. One Australian in three is a post-war migrant, the son or grandchild of a post-war migrant. How do we explain to the new generation, to the 3,000,000 newcomers, that Australia nationally is songless and voiceless? This is really something that we have determined to do and the overwhelming number of Australian people want us to do. They have been getting more impatient about it as time has gone on. We feel that what has been put forward is merely another delaying device. I would hope that the House would completely reject the motion. 
The suggestion that we should include somebody else's tune, an anthem shared by a dozen nations when we have gone forth to talk about something distinctively Australian, should not be adopted. We can see that it is not even in the tradition of the song. It is not even in the proper use of the words. So as far as that is concerned, it just does not stand up. It will be retained as a Royal anthem as it was originally. We are seeking, as we have said, something particularly and distinctively Australian. If this is rejected by honourable members opposite then that is their choice, but as far as I and the majority of the Australian people are concerned I think the effort that has been made by the Prime Minister in conformity with his promise made at Griffith 12 days before the last election should be commended and we will implement it. I would hope that at this time next year when somebody says 'Advance Australia' we will know what it means. We will accept it and we will honour it as it should be, as something distinctively Australian; we will accept whatever the choice of the people may be. 
 Briefly, I am grateful to the Wentworth post. I will, of course, give the letter the attention it deserves. May I give the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  a little advice on registered letters. If a registered letter for me arrives at the Parliament House Post Office and I am not here personally to sign for it, it is not banded over; it is returned in my absence. At no time have I ever refused to receive any letter; in fact, this year I have received about 25,000 of them. I am sorry that the honourable member has been the odd letter out. 
It cannot be handed over to them. If it is addressed to someone personally, that person must sign for it. If I am absent, the Post Office as I understand it- 
The honourable member for Wimmera should come out of the bush for a moment and listen to me. I listened to him singing his anthem today. It is not a good system to write a registered letter if one wants it specially or quickly delivered because if the recipient is absent it is returned. At no time - and I think that the honourable member knows this - would I refuse to receive a letter. As I say, the honourable member for Mackellar is the odd letter out in 25,000 letters. I am delighted that he has delivered the letter to me personally, thus giving me an opportunity to clear up this matter. The other point I make is that the honourable member is quite right regarding recognition of overseas qualifications. After 25 years of a massive immigration scheme we still have not sorted out what ought to be done properly to recognise overseas professional qualifications. The Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications, which was set up by my predecessor, is making progress, but that progress is dependent on the States and the professional bodies within them. I ask the honourable member to use his influence with those States and with any professional body with which he may be connected to help speed the process of national accreditation. It should have been done. It is a national scandal that it has not been done. I am glad that the honourable member has raised this matter. He will receive a reply this evening. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)- On a point of misrepresentation,  Mr Speaker- 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have allocated a high priority to the role of immigration in regional development 
At the Conference of Federal and State Ministers for Immigration on 9 November, general agreement was reached on the need to meet the special labour requirements of development areas. 
The Department of Immigration has set up the necessary administrative machinery to obtain detailed information from Federal and State planning authorities and to develop proposals for future migrant programs in the regions. To this end, preliminary discussions have been held with Federal and State planning authorities. 
Migration officers, before proceeding overseas, are thoroughly briefed on the requirements of regional development projects. 
Western Australia: Tourist Development Authority: Maritime Museum  (Question No. 1176)  Mr Bennett  asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the desire of the Western Australian Tourist Development Authority to establish a maritime museum. 
If so, will he assist by investigating the possibility of supplying disused Australian naval vessels for the museum. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report on Good Neighbour Council participation in the observance of Australia Day 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report has been circulated amongst Good Neighbour Councils and I expect to be able to table it in Parliament this week. 
The honourable member has posed to me a particularly big challenge. I might say that in my own household I would not be much of an advertisement for such a balance as I am outnumbered by four to one. The honourable member has raised a serious question, because in the early days of the immigration program there was no doubt that there was a considerable imbalance in the sexes, which led to a great deal of sterile competition. I am pleased to say that at present the balance of the sexes in Australia is better than it has been in all our latter history; it is about 101 to 100, meaning that for every 101 males there are 100 females. That represents a considerable improvement on the earlier position. I might say, however, that that situation does not apply across the board. In the countryside there are in fact 113 males to every 100 females, so the competition is much greater there. In urban areas the women now outnumber men by 100 to 97, so the urban boys have what I might term a much less competitive time. In the migrant groups there is still some imbalance because there are 114 males to every 100 females. However, there is some improvement in the intermarriage rate which helps the situation. Migrants captured 60,000 Australian brides in the last year for which I have the figures and that represents 17 per cent of marriages. So there has been some improvement. I will do my best to maintain the rate of improvement in the direction of balance. 
It is true that the honourable member raised this matter in the House some weeks ago. Action has been taken at the Colombian end to end the racket. The Australian Ambassador in Brasilia proceeded to Bogota, the capital of Colombia, with a view to gaining permission of the Colombian Government for an Australian migration officer to visit that country. The nearest Australian migration officer is located in Lima in Peru. I am pleased to say that the Colombian Government has agreed to the request that this migration officer proceed on a regular basis to Colombia with a view to assisting in the handling of entry visas to Australia, both for tourist and migration purposes. I hope that this will end the racket that was perpetrated and which has brought to Australia people who are now in a most invidious position. They are people who have entered into contracts, if you like, which they cannot honour because they are in fact here illegally at the present time. I am pleased to say to the honourable member that we have not interfered with the people who are here. They are now identified and known. They know the difficulties associated with being the victims of this racket. What we will do is to review each and every case. We will do so with all compassion with a view to helping them over the difficulty which in all the cases I know of was not their fault but the result of their being involved by racketeers in a despicable way. As far as we know, the racket Kas ended in Colombia but the end results still have to be cleared up here. I give the honourable member this assurance: I hope in the next few weeks to be able to determine the cases with a view to seeing that justice is done to the migrants and their families. The honourable member is quite right - the families are still in Colombia, wondering very much what is going to happen. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Citizenship Act 1948-1969, I present the annual return of persons granted certificates of Australian citizenship for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
This case has occasioned a great deal of comment and I know the honourable member has been deeply concerned because these people come from Adelaide and from his particular bailiwick. The situation with the Gardos family - the man, the wife and the son - is that they came to Australia in 1957. The daughter, Sussan ah, was born in Adelaide. They are all Australian citizens. They returned to Hungary and the information I have as a result of investigations made is that their Australian passports were confiscated at the border and they were given a temporary settlement document because, it is reported, but not yet confirmed, they applied for resettlement in Hungary. This is an unconfirmed report which is being followed up at the present time. Certainly, I give the honourable member and the House the assurance that wherever an Australian citizen anywhere in the world is unjustly treated - or appears tq be so - the Australian Government will take 'it as an insult to Australian citizenship and to Australia itself. No citizen will be left without the concern of the Australian Government. This matter is being followed up by both of the departments concerned. We will probe it to the end with a view to ensuring that justice is done and that Australian citizenship is recognised wherever Australians go. I give the honourable member that assurance. 
It is not true that the easy visitor system, which was introduced on 1 September last year, has been generally suspended. It has been suspended only- 
Speaking to the point of order, I had taken note of the question asked by the honourable member and I would not infringe on that, but it seemed to me when I rose to answer the question that it was not the same as the one asked by the honourable member for Wannon. 
There has been no such case. To illustrate the absurdity of that suggestion, I refer to the nomination made from the Philippines about a week ago by a niece of Sergeant Gamboa. She and her husband went through the usual drill which was established more than a year ago. They were found to be acceptable and I think they are due to arrive shortly. So there has been no such case. I think I should add that this would not have happened in the past. But I do want to say that there has been some confusion. The confusion seems to be based on the idea that we should have a course of action that flings open our doors and says, in effect, that people may come in irrespective of the protection which we are anxious to extend to each and every migrant. Our global procedures are all designed to protect individual migrants. They ensure that everyone who arrives in Australia has a job commensurate with experience, and also accommodation. 
In areas where no assessments have been made of professional and trade qualifications it is absolutely important for the protection of people that these procedures be continued when those applications are referred to Canberra. I intend to continue that procedure. It has nothing to do with the ethnic background or racial makeup of the individuals concerned; it has a great deal to do with whether they will in fact have a viability in our country. There are areas in the Americas, in the European and Middle East complex, and also, of course, in Asia where we have not made these assessments. I am pleased to tell the House that the Minister for Labour is considering at the present time a series of recommendations that we should have teams which will establish the qualifications - trade, professional and otherwise - of people from those areas along the same lines as happens with regard to people from traditional migrant source countries. It is not an easy or a short term task but it is under way. I might say that when we undertake this further activity it may help to end some of the current misunderstanding by those who still have to do their homework on policies more than a year old. 
I am aware of the honourable member's concern because the Weber family lives in his area. Madonna Weber has been in Austria for some months now attempting to arrange the return home of her 3-year- old son, Rudolph, who was taken to Austria by the father without permission. This is one of the problems that are associated with dual nationality. I would say to the honourable member and to the House that the Australian Government, through all of its agencies, has given all the help possible to  Mrs Weber  in Austria. The problem at the moment is that the court has not given her access to the child in a formal way. There had been tacit access and the arrangement was going ahead nicely but access has now been withdrawn. The Australian Embassy has given all the assurances in the world that we do not wish to interrupt the course of justice and the hearings in Austria, but we have certainly said, through all the means that are available to us, that the mother and the child should be able to get together and I would hope that the representations that are being made in a continuing way to the Austrian authorities will persuade the Austrian authorities to recognise the rights of this Australian mother in this situation and also to act in the best interests of the child. Certainly in Australia the rights of the mother are sacrosanct, and we would hope that this would also apply generally to Australian citizens around the world. 
This is only one of the instances that have given rise to concern. Another 2 Australian children at the moment are in Switzerland in a similar situation. What has happened lends impetus to the efforts that are being made by the Government to achieve some agreement with overseas countries that court orders made in Australia should be recognised in other countries and that the rights of Australian citizens in relation to children of dual nationality should be properly appreciated. I would hope that the best traditions of Austrian administration would recognise the rights of an Australian mother in relation to her Australian child so that the mother and child can be reunited quickly. 
It is not true, as far as I know, that any such ban has ever been proposed or discussed. Over the years we have had the co-operation of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in trade criteria testing. There could have been some confusion about a specific mission for a very modest project involving 35 Filipinos which I understand has been dealt with by my colleague the Minister for Labour. Over the years there have been some gaps in the establishment of trade criteria for immigrants. In fact only 17 countries have been assessed adequately by professional trade union and employer missions. It was only in 1968-69 that the Tregillis mission was able to extend the testing of trade criteria to the 17 countries to which I have referred because previously it was almost exclusively a matter of recognising United Kingdom qualifications in professional and trade spheres. I might add that the 17 countries are all in Europe. All other sources - North and South America; the Middle East, including Lebanon; and other parts of Europe - have not yet been covered. As yet no trade and professional criteria have been established in Asia, especially in countries like India. I hope that in the future there will be a further mission along the lines of the Tregillis mission which will remedy the gaps in recognition of trade criteria in many countries. Certainly I am hopeful of the continued cooperation of the trade union and professional organisations and the employers which we have received in the past. I have heard nothing of bans. I think they would be most unlikely. 
I did not receive the notification of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  that he intended to raise this matter this evening, otherwise I would have come into the House and dealt particularly with the case in question. I regret that I did not receive that information as I would have been quite happy to have dealt with the case that he has raised. Providing that I can get from him the specific name of the person involved, I give him the undertaking that the matter will be put on record in the House and he will receive a reply to his representations. 
There is in fact a delay of about 6 months in the finallisation of many of the matters concerning people coming from overseas, whether they are individuals or family groups. There are many reasons for that. Very often an application is made by people in good faith - I do not refer to this particular case - and they give an assurance in their application that there are jobs, that there is accommodation and that their nominees are good people in good health. Unfortunately, that is not always so. As a matter of fact, the officers of my Department are often very hard pressed to retain within the confidentiality of the Department some of the details which, of course, would be immediately accepted if they were known. I can think of one case that happened some months ago which involved a tragic series of events. We were not able to communicate with the people concerned because the case involved a very close member of the family having a very unhappy and miserable disease which it was not our responsibility to advise or to make known. Therefore it is very often necessary to try to go through a drill which will, in the first instance, safeguard the Australian community from susceptibility to the disease and, secondly, safeguard the members of the family themselves. Some of these matters are very personal and very difficult to deal with publicly. I have always taken the view that when an application is made to the Department of Immigration confidentiality should prevail between the applicant and the Department. 
Other difficulties are encountered overseas. In relation to overseas nominations, depending on the country, other governments and other sets of laws are involved. I say to the honourable member quite bluntly that each month I get a report on the progress and correspondence. I might say that some of the matters have been outstanding for more than 3 months. When that happens I ask: 'Why have these matters been outstanding for that time?' In all, of the cases that I have probed I have found that the matters have been outstanding because details have not been forthcoming from overseas. Maybe the information which is needed from the host country is not being made available. 
Sometimes one uncovers the reluctant immigrant. From time to time we get impatient letters from ardent suitors who ask: Why has my fiancee not arrived? Why is she not here? She is keen to get together with me.' Of course, when one looks into the matter one finds that the ardent young fiancee has been seeking every way in the world not to come. It is not up to us to break the poor man's heart and say: 'She does not want to come. She does not turn up when she is called for interview. She does not really want to be with you after all.' We do not do that, but we go through the drill and advise that perhaps the nominee has not completed the necessary applications. We use the very cold bureaucratic phrase: 'Your nominee has not completed the necessary application'. I suppose we ought to say: 'Your young fiancee has found somebody else or she has decided that you are not a desirable objective and therefore she is dragging the chain deliberately'. All of these personal matters sometimes cause delays. It is very difficult, as I say, to go to the well intentioned people concerned and to tell them very bluntly the reasons for some of these delays. 
I accept that a file could be mislaid from time to time in view of the fact that some 28,000 cases and queries are raised annually with my office alone. If there was not the occasional case of a mislaid file I would think that I had a Department of saints and angels. Good as the officers of my Department are, I do not think that that is true. Of course one will find those, instances cropping up. But I do not know of any delays that have deliberately occurred. The honourable member for Lyne has tonight raised a sequence of events which indicate to me, without knowing anything about the case off-hand, that there are difficulties which will have to be overcome. The honourable member is right in pursuing the matter. He is doing exactly the right thing by his constituent. But I think he has prejudged the case by saying that it is a disgrace. 
The fact that the period from 22 October to now has elapsed without any hint being given to the honourable member as to what the difficulty is would seem, on the face of it, to indicate that the matter requires investigation and explanation. I will certainly undertake to have an explanation furnished to the honourable member. If I can manage I will probably do so in the adjournment debate tomorrow night so that the explanation is on the record. I would like to say to those honourable members who raise cases that involve highly personal matters that are difficult to transmit on paper that I have always taken the view that I like to have the honourable member concerned in my confidence. If I know that a matter is raised in good faith and if these sorts of things have to be discussed I prefer to discuss them with the honourable member concerned and to give to him in good faith the information I have available to me. Very often I allow him to make the judgment as to whether the information will cause hurt and dismay to the people concerned. I leave it to his good judgment as to what he should do in those cases. That is the procedure I follow and will continue to follow. As a result of the raising of this matter tonight by the honourable member for Lyne, I undertake to have an investigation carried out and to provide an explanation to the House during, I hope, the adjournment debate tomorrow night. 
I am aware that over the years there has been a growth of what I might describe as shysterism  in  relation to migrants. I know that  in  certain instances charges of $25 have been made for minor interpreting services, for a mere telephone call or a mere inquiry to a government department. I am pleased to say that since the introduction  in  Sydney and Melbourne of the new emergency telephone interpreter services a lot of this has been eliminated. But there are still, of course, areas of concern such as that which the honourable member mentioned. I hope that very shortly the 48 multi-lingual welfare officers will complete their training and be in the field, bringing to the migrant settlers, particularly those with language problems, therange of help and guidance that is available. I agree that not enough is being done and the instance cited by the honourable member I undertake to follow up with him. But speaking generally, I hope that the extension of the emergency interpreter services, telephone services, the appointment of the 48 multi-lingual welfare officers who will shortly be in the field, and steps like these will put the shysters out of business and give the newcomers a better deal. 
by leave - I think it important that I reject without delay the utterly false allegations that have been made in Australia and in Fiji in relation to Australia's migration policies. The first of these allegations was made by the proprietor of a travel agency in Fiji who also happens to be a member of Parliament. The owner of this travel agency, a  Mr Tora,  stated while a temporary guest in our country and again on his return to Fiji that the 12 Fijians recently returned to Fiji because of their association with a racket in introducing illegal workers here, would have been treated differently if they had been white. This gentleman, a guest in our country, said Australia was racist, that its politics were racist and that is why the 12 Fijians he was involved with personally were being required to leave. 
He repeated these statements on his return to Fiji and it has been reported to me today that the return of these 12 people was described by him as 'high handed' and 'unjustifiable'. It has been further stated that Australia has two sets of standards based on colour. 
The first point I should like to make in relation to Fiji is that we have some 4,000 residents from Fiji and a good percentage of them have settled so successfully and so well they have joined the family of the nation as Australian citizens. We are proud to have them. Every year some 200 to 250 further settlers enter Australia's front door from Fiji as settlers. We hope that this stream of successful settlement continues and expands. At the same time, it is a source of great and deep regret to me that unscrupulous people should use the back door to infiltrate people into Australia who will be for most of their lives in hostage to the exploiters who master minded their illegal entry. No country has a monopoly of racketeers. The allegations that Australian laws and policies are different for different people are untrue, and while my words may be questioned the figures which show the greatest number of deportations from Australia over the years have been from Europe and the United Kingdom, and those figures cannot be denied. The easy visa system has been a success in more than 60 countries around the world. It has been a success for the overwhelming majority of Fijians and I repeat the statement I made to the distinguished representative of Fiji in Australia,  His Excellency  the High Commissioner,  Mr Raman  Narayan Nair, that as soon as the racketeering has been ended we will then look to the restoration of the new facility I introduced on 1 September. 
We are proud of the Fijian settlers who have come through our front door and become part of the family of the nation. We look forward to continued settlement from Fiji. We recognise that the racketeers and the exploiters are as anathema to Fiji and every other country in our region as they are to Australia. Australia rejects the exploiters from whichever country they may come. They establish a bridgehead, they introduce their dupes and they keep them in bondage for years to pay for return fares they never had in the first place, for accommodation - up to 17 to a room - they were never consulted about, and for services rendered in beating Australia's laws designed above all to prevent exploitation and to preserve standards for all people in the Australian family. 
Let me deal with the 12 Fijians who came in search of settlement but who entered through the back door. Let me assure this House that the men in question were deported solely because they had come to Australia under the guise of tourists but with the real intention of breaking Australia's laws and taking employment. They admitted this on their arrival in Sydney by air. Their coming here was therefore in deliberate defiance of the conditions attached to visitor entry. 

 Mr Tora is a director of a travel agency in Fiji and the group admitted he arranged for them to have return tickets on the basis of repayment to  Mr Tora  later.  Mr Tora  had also arranged for the group to be met on arrival by another Fijian,  Mr Patrick  Anthony, who was to arrange accommodation. The deportation of the group was essential to protect the 12 dupes from years of exploitation and to protect the standards of living and employment of the Australian community. Australia has nothing to apologise for in its current immigration policy. The Government is firm in its intention to reject exploitation in any shape or form. I now table a more detailed account of the history of this specific matter relating to the 12 Fijians and their departure on 6 March 1974. 
I have noted the bitter opposition of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr 'Bourchier)  to the Government's proposals to give direct access for local government to the national tax pool of the Loan Council. I have no doubt that in the fullness of time he will attempt to explain that to local government itself. It seemed to me that the only contribution he made that was original was to question the integrity of the Karmel Committee and the Australian Universities Commission. I have not heard that before. In that way he is unique. No doubt he will explain it to both those bodies in due time. 
 On Tuesday night the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  mentioned the case of a nomination by parents at present resident in Australia of a son and his family remaining in an overseas country and a request they had made for assisted passage. The honourable member made 2 complaints in connection with this case. The first was that he had raised it with me in a personal letter on 22 October and despite a number of acknowledgments by me personally to a series of requests for finalisation of the case there was still no decision. The honourable member felt this was far too long to wait for such a decision and submitted that he should have received firm advice within the 6-month period. 

 His second complaint was that this case was straightforward and should not have taken this length of time to determine, that the parents were in ill-health and that they wanted the son and family to join them, that this should not be delayed and the assisted passage should be granted. I undertook last night to inquire urgently into this case and to report the results of that inquiry to the honourable member and to the House. I regarded this as urgent because I know the honourable member and the course of action he took was an unusual one. Therefore I felt the matter warranted priority attention. - 
First I want to say to the honourable member and the House that the parents have been in touch with the Department of Immigration and have received a reply from the Department. They also received a reply from me personally when they wrote personally to me. But I convey an apology to the honourable member that despite my intention and instructions he should receive firm advice he did not do so. The family has had 2 firm replies. He has not. So he has done a service in raising it, as it would seem that there is a need to plug the gap in the system of advice so the member and the family are both advised and the member who initiates the matter is not overlooked. This is an omission which will be rectified and the honourable member, quite apart from my comments tonight, will receive a proper written determination. 
In regard to the complaint about the intending migrant and the receipt by him of an assisted passage I must remind the House of my words the other night, that behind the bland reply to a family often lies a tale which is better left untold for their peace of mind. In this case the people are quite anonymous. 
In fact the matter was not raised in relation to a resident of the honourable member's electorate. So I am pleased that we can discuss it in an abstract and anonymous way. 
The migrant family concerned lodged the nomination of their son and his family from a capital city. The parents wanted their son with them, particularly the mother, and this was very natural. 
Called for interview in the country concerned the son was found to have 29 convictions over 10 years and 4 consecutive periods of imprisonment. He was described by one of his own country's authorities as a compulsive thief. He told my officers overseas he wanted to join his mother in a certain capital city. In fact she lived in another capital city in another State 1,000 miles away. The son was found to have been employed in between his gaol sentences off and on for about 4 years in the whole of his life. He has a wife and 5 children and he maintains them on unemployment benefits, reporting to my officers that it was better than working. 
The wife was found to be below average intelligence, the 5 children below standard physically. He claimed to write to his mother regularly but he did not know where she lived. She told the honourable member there was ill health in the family and of course this gave edge to his concern, and I acknowledge it, but the son said the parents were both in good health. He was not sure what he wanted to do in Australia. He said a house could be fixed up for him in Sydney with 4 bedrooms and he heard he might have to pay out as much as $14 per week. 
Good luck to him, yes. He declined to attend any information meetings and he said his only recreation was a beer with the boys on Fridays. This was the applicant for whom an assisted passage was being sought at the expense of the Australian taxpayers to help build the nation  -  29 convictions, 4 periods in gaol, unemployed for 4 years up until now, declined employment because the dole was better and was not even sure where his parents lived or what their state of health was. The answer was to decline an assisted passage. 
I feel that within the very generous criteria laid down the decision was sound not only in the interests of Australia but also in the interests of the parents and I might say in the interests of the family concerned. It could be said that he will reform and be different. Where he lives in the world there is no lack of employment at present and if he makes an effort and works for a change, stays out of gaol and pays attention to his family and applies again I will always be happy and I am sure any of my successors will always he happy to reconsider the decision, but on the present basis I am sorry the answer has to be no. I would say that to burden ageing parents with such a family - a man, wife and 5 children would be too much, even if I had the authority to spend Australian taxpayers' money on such a case. 
I feel that there has been merit in raising this matter because it has shown up a defect in handling correspondence - and I acknowledge that - and above all I believe it has demonstrated that in the area of migration the human story too often has to be hidden behind the officialese of the Department. But for my part, better that the Minister and the Department be thought of as hard hearted villians than one mother be disillusioned. 
I acknowledge that the honourable member has raised a valid point in relation to an anonymous person who is quite far from him and from me and can never be identified, from what we have said, amongst 13 million people in Australia. However, the case is not untypical of the sort of problems we face. 
I am aware that there are a number of countries, I think including Czechoslovakia, where there has been some difficulty in securing permission for people to enter to visit members of their families. It is always regrettable when any constriction is placed upon family members wishing to come together for visits and reunions. I understand the honourable member's concern. It will be realised of course that the Australian Government, and certainly the Department of Immigration, are not in a position, I suppose, to open barriers which are closed in a firm way. But what we have attempted to do has been to seek co-operation and to seek sympathy for our citizens, particularly those who have relatives in various countries across the world. I will undertake to discuss this matter with my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see specifically what can be done in the particular cases the honourable member has raised. 
There have been no direct representations at the government level to me with relation to the operation of the easy visa system. But the Prime Minister of Fiji did state at a Press conference a few days ago that he hoped that the easy visa system which had been in operation would be restored to Fiji. Honourable members will remember that the system has ' been suspended pending certain investigations into abuses by a small number of people- Certainly, I would share the hope of the Prime Minister of Fiji that the easy visa system would be restored there. I would draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that before this system was introduced it was discussed by me personally with the relevant ministers in Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia and more latterly in Thailand and also with the representative of Fiji here. In each and every case the system was welcomed. In each and every case it was regarded as an advance on and an improvement in our relations in our region of the world. I might say that it is still working particularly well in more than 50 countries and that I share the hope of the Prime Minister of Fiji that we will be able to restore it there when we have cleared up some of the transitory difficulties which have appeared. 
The honourable member's question is apparently based on a recent report that there are 30,000 illegal migrants in Australia. I might say that it was a rather fancy piece of guesstimating. It was based on a figure, which it quoted, of 18,000 illegal migrants who remained in Australia under the previous administration, having arrived between the years 1965 and 1972. I might also say that it was predicated on the idea that aU of those 18,000 people who represented hangovers from previous procedures are still here illegally and have still not regularised their status in this country. The actual number of illegal migrants from 1965 to 1972 amounted to no fewer than 25,000 people. That was a considerable number of people. 
I am glad I have just woken the honourable member from Victoria. I am sure that he will be very interested to know that that was the figure from 1965 to 1972 under the administration which the honourable gentleman supported. The interesting thing is that as a result of the procedures which were then in force and which are now in force in the Department of Immigration, some 7,000 to 8,000 people were regularised by being encouraged to apply properly and return or by having their status regularised here. But to suggest that the hangover is of that dimension is a pure guesstimate. I hate to spoil a good story, but I must let the facts speak for themselves. The position is that firm action has been taken by this administration against racketeers and exploiters, and we will continue this action. The overwhelming majority of people who come to this country come in through the front door legally and properly and they settle well. I might say that the easy visa system which was referred to in the article which I think the honourable member for Batman may have seen is still functioning particularly well in 50 countries. I would encourage all of the people who wish to come to Australia to apply in the right and proper way and to come in through the front door and be accorded the extensive hospitality which Australians give to people from all nations. 
The honourable member has asked me 2 questions. I think he asked first whether I had made some public statement dealing with the migrant intake for the next financial year. I will put the honourable member right in that regard. The drill for considering the next migrant intakethis is for the financial year 1974-75  -  is that the matter is first discussed by the program committee of the Immigration Planning Council. It is then discussed by the full Planning Council which then makes a recommendation to me. That recommendation is then studied and taken to Cabinet, and a decision is made and announced. I might say that up to this time I have had no report on the recommendations of the Planning Council. 
The honourable member also referred to an article .by my colleague the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I read the article with great interest. I thought that my distinguished colleague betrayed tremendous erudition when he said that the most important thing was to find out the facts of our situation in relation to population. Of course, what my distinguished ministerial colleague was saying was that we must take a long view of these matters. It is just for this reason that the national population inquiry, which was instituted, I might say, by my predecessor, the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, has been continued by this administration. It has bees given additional facilities. It has held public hearings in all States. I hope that in June of this year - in July at the very latest - that report will be brought down. I believe that the final reference by my distinguished colleague was the most important. He said that at present we do not know enough about the effects of population development in Australia. We should have the information. I hope that in June or July we will have the raw material for long term decision making. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has just spent some time defending his own Party's record and has made some personal observations. I want to say at the outset that the whole basis of his argument is as hollow as the excuse put forward. The honourable member for Wannon said that he was not informed of the changes. He also said that he had not heard of them. A few days ago he was totally unaware of the statement which I tabled in the Parliament on 11 October. I did send it to him. He emerges, I might suggest, as the Rip Van Winkle of this Parliament in relation to these matters for which he has some responsibility. In the statement of 11 October I enunciated the detail of new policies, categories, national need, reorganisation and associated matters. 
The Honourable member is quite right in saying that he asked question No. 999 in relation to a whole series of matters. I inform the House that the answer to this question took 250 hours of work to prepare. It is only just finished. It will probably take up 20 pages of Hansard. He has waited 15 months to ask 20 further questions now. Since his original question, which has taken all of this time and preparation, he has failed to ask any single question without notice. As I say, Rip Van Winkle was a great figure in history. I suggest that the honourable member is emulating him in relation to the matters which he raised, even the matter of the Colombians. He said the Minister had warning. Of course the Minister had warning about dishonest operators in Colombia. Action was taken to close down their operations. The Australian Government did not suspect that Air France would have been used as a cover. 
A reference was also made to Burma. I am glad it was raised, because it is true that something like 10,000 people turned up at the Australian Embassy in Burma showing great interest in Australia. Cables that have been received have indicated that there was a series of ridiculous rumours deliberately fostered by black marketeers exploiting gullible people. I wonder who is included in all those gullible people. But such are the rumours - a special series of ships were to take 20,000 workers to Australia at the drop of a hat. Incidentally, the Burmese Government has highly restrictive policies on permission to leave the country at all. The whole exercise was a local matter which was based on a deliberate attempt, apparently, by some people to exploit a situation. 
I might say again that this is an incredible charge that has been laid against me personally that I have been reticent, that I have been silent and that I have not been explaining fully enough the new policies. I might say it is the first time this charge has been levelled. In relation to the easy visitor system about which the honourable member for Wannon has expressed grave doubts I believe he gave au impression - I put it at no more than that - that it should never have been introduced and perhaps it should be suspended now. I point out to the honourable member and to all members of Parliament that this was something that was introduced after considerable debate and considerable deliberation within the Department. First of all it was taken to our neighbours. It was discussed in Indonesia, in the Philippines, in Singapore, in Malaysia, in Japan, later in Thailand and also with the distinguished representative of Fiji. For those discussions I was accompanied by the Permanent Head of the Department of Immigration,  Mr R.  E. Armstrong, who was indeed one of the founders of that Department. The new initiatives by this Government were welcomed personally by the Vice-President, the Foreign Minister and other Ministers of Indonesia. They were welcomed by the  President,  the Foreign Minister and other Ministers of the Philippines. They were welcomed by the Foreign Minister of Singapore, by the late  Deputy  Prime Minister of Malaysia and more recently in my presence by the Foreign Minister of Thailand. This is something about which the Opposition seems not to be very happy. 
Let me say something in relation to the Prime Minister of Fiji. I have received a transcript of what the Prime Minister of Fiji said at a Press conference on Friday in relation to our initiatives in this matter. He said: 
There is allegation our citizens have offended against immigration laws. We are not in very strong position to deal with questions such as this but I hope to persuade Australian Government that once they are convinced they can stop this type of racket that they think they've discovered, they should allow us to carry on with the easy visa system. 
There is the endorsement, if you like, from our neighbours. Of course they all endorsed it and I am particularly proud that we were able to bring in something that was so universally welcomed in our own region. As far as the past is concerned - it seemed to me that the new initiatives were being questioned - I should like to draw attention to the fact that the initiatives we have taken and the reforms we have made have been designed above all to abolish discrimination. We spelled them out. The Immigration Planning Council, the Immigration Advisory Council and the other organs of advice which were established, incidentally, by the previous Government and which we have continued have continued to provide that advice. I understand that the Immigration Planning Council met today. It brings together employers, the trade union movement and everyone else- involved. They have reached a unanimous recommendation which I have no doubt in the fullness of time will be conveyed to me. This is the situation. There is no suggestion at all of the kind of wrangling that the honourable member seeks to bring to the migration policies in 1974. 
It seems to me that the honourable member for Wannon, in wishing to return to the past, if that is his. idea, or wishing to suspend the easy visa system or wishing in fact to bring back discrimination, is out of touch with the majority of the Australian people and certainly does not represent the bulk of his colleagues because I have representations almost daily on behalf of the constituents of his colleagues, urging tolerance and urging that in fact as much as possible there should be if not an open door a friendly door, a good neighbour policy. That did not apply in the past. I had an assessment or a report from the Department the other day in relation to the old policy in which colour was involved. There were 3 interesting categories - Europeans, persons of mixed descent and non-Europeans. To make sure into which category immigrants fell we had to have photographs. God help a migrant if he fell into the hands of a bad photographer. What used to happen - this has happened and is on file - is that one brother would apply for immigration. He would get himself a nice light photograph, although he would be as black as the ace of spades, and he would be approved. But his brother who was quite light would get another photographer and his photograph would turn out as black as the ace of spades and he would be rejected. Then there would be another brother who would look for all the world like the honourable member for Wannon, and by the honourable member's Government he would be admitted as a European. So there could be 3 brothers in the one family with different criteria applied to them. This was the old policy and it existed until we changed it. So much for international relations and good will, and so much for common sense. 
Turning to other matters in relation to past policies let me say that we have had instances involving citizenship. We abolished all the discriminations in citizenship but we had some extraordinarily interesting cases on file. I have personally vetted 62 applications for citizenship, have had them re-investigated and have granted citizenship since I became the Minister for Immigration. Some of those people were extremely dangerous characters. Some of them were old age pensioners who had been in Australia for a generation. One of them, I might say, had the temerity to express radical opinions so he was denied citizenship for a decade and a half. When I looked into his case I found that he had expressed radical opinions and he had put them into operation in a frightening way - he had joined the Parents and Citizens Association. In fact when he was granted his citizenship he was the  president  of the Association. Nevertheless, he had been denied citizenship on purely arbitrary grounds. This was discrimination of the worst kind. It no longer operates. 
Again on the question of citizenship, I had a report the other day about a man who was denied citizenship because he made the terrible mistake of parking his car in the wrong place when there were meetings suspected to be mass meetings of the Communist Party in a suburban home - a frightening thing.  His  car was observed to be parked in this position quite regularly. Then, to confirm absolutely this awful man's tendencies, he subscribed to the 'Tribune'. Obviously this was unforgivable. He waited until I reviewed his case. He has come forward and is a fine man, married to an Australian, has children, and has never committed any crime or done anything out of place. These are some of the things that we have changed. We proclaimed that we would change them and we have done it. 
Suggestions have also been made that Australia has built up bad relations in our neighbourhood because of its immigration policy. It is very interesting to look back at history and find some of the comments that have been made by our neighbours about us in Australia over the years. A few years ago a leader of Singapore said: 
Until the Australian Government changes its policies towards Malayans and other Asians, any mention of goodwill will be a mockery. 
Then, we had a man who was not a radical; as a matter of fact I think that he was a Conservative Member of the British Parliament,  Mr Malcolm  Macdonald, the British 
Commissioner-General in South East Asia in colonial times. He said: 
Australia's immigration policy has done irreparable harm not only to Australia, but to all European nations with interests in Asia. 
Ti was that kind of policy and that kind of discrimination that we set out to abolish, and we have done it. Of course we have taken advice; of course we have proceeded carefully and in accordance with the platform of the Party to which I have the honour to belong which said that there should be an avoidance of clashes; there should be an avoidance of difficulties; there should be, above all, protection for the people who come to Australia and for the standards of the Australian community. We have proceeded on those lines. We have been criticised because we have not gone fast enough. Some critics have said: 'You have not done enough'. Others have said that we have done too much. But on behalf of the Government I must say that we have abolished discriminations, but above all we have set out to preserve the aspirations as well as the rights of migrants. Above all, we have seen to it that there should be no challenge to Australia's standards and to Australian tranquility. We have tried to do this in a steady and responsible way. 
The honourable member asks me and I shall tell him. We have set out to ensure that under the criteria which have been set up in all categories - they have been publicised and are in the documents before the House - no one comes to Australia who has not a firm place in the society, in terms of work and accommodation, and also the capability of being able to integrate here successfully. I think these are basic safeguards that we have set out to observe. I am very proud of the way in which we have set about the work. Of course, we have not changed everything overnight. It is absurd to suggest it. I reject the suggestion. 
I turn now to trade qualifications. It took us until 1968-69 to go beyond the United Kingdom in the establishment of trade criteria. We had been a federation then for 67 years. It took us 2 years to extend our acceptance of overseas trade qualifications. I pay tribute to the previous Administration in relation to the Tregillis Committee, which went to 17 countries in Europe and brought back a report which extended our acceptance of overseas trade qualifications to those 17 countries. We still have not yet extended our acceptance to trade qualifications of North and South America, the Middle East and important countries like Lebanon, Asia and some countries in Europe. So we must arrange to extend the work of the Tregillis Committee in those areas, and we have reached agreement to do that. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who will speak later in this debate, has the responsibility of advising me, as the Minister for Immigration, on Australia's absorptive capacity in relation to the work force. This is terribly important. I do not think that there is one honourable member on either side of the Parliament who would want to see the importation of unemployment. It is all right to say that jobs are available. Of course there are, but one does not get any thanks for putting square pegs in round holes. If a man with high qualifications comes into Australia and we suggest to him that his only place in the community is digging trenches for the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, he hates us and he is unhappy and he goes home. 
The Government's initiatives are to obviate that situation. I could sum them up by saying that we set out to have migration without tears. I indicated the success of this policy the other day when I stated that the number of dissatisfied migrants returning home has been reduced. Surely that is a measure, in figures, of the success of the new initiatives and policies. I must say that I welcome this discussion on the matter of public importance because it has given an opportunity to review some of the problems. The honourable member for Wannon will have his monumental question answered'- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no firm plans at yet. The members of the Irish Parliament who represent Raheen have indicated their interest in getting together a proposal to preserve the birthplace of James Finton Lalor and Peter Lalor as a joint monument. I indicated my interest in the proposal and my desire to see the birthplace preserved for posterity and to symbolise the links between Australia and Ireland. 
(a) None. 
No firm proposal has yet been formulated. 
Papunya Aboriginal Community:Housing Program (Question No. 354) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At the request of my constituents concerned in the dispute. I sent the following telegram to the Honourable Clyde Cameron, M.H.R., Minister for Labour. 
Urge intervention to end victimisation of 40 Griffith women thrown out of work as a result of black ban by Food Preservers Union of Victoria on onions peeled by Nugan staff members for delivery to frozen foods and other preservers stop this ban is in defiance of court ruling and victimised women who are trade unionists covered according to the law by the union recognised by the law stop Griffith unemployment has long been matter of concern particularly for women and this is an irresponsible and harmful ban for purely administrative reasons and would urge strongest possible action in defence of women who are my constituents and full trade unionists stop would appreciate your advice on possible action regards.' 
He replied in terms of the following telegram: 
I acknowledge your telegram of 12 February stop and having investigations made into this matter.' 
R. CAMERON, Canberra 
I have also been in touch by telegram with the Australian Workers' Union and the Food Preservers' Union of Victoria. I released these telegrams to the media in my electorate. 
There has been some misunderstanding about the category C or the national need category. The other day I saw a report which stated that category C applications - the national need migrants - had to be referred back to Australia if the migrants were non-European or of mixed descent. These categories have been wiped out; they have been redundant for 15 months. In fact, the only national need migrant applications which return to Australia are those which come from outside the 17 countries where the tradesmen's qualifications have been established since 1968-69. 
As to the other matter, the free flow of migrants, what the honourable member says is right, and I must acknowledge it. If I understand him correctly, he said that it is not possible properly to arrange both reception and the categorisation of free flow migrants because we have no notice of them, no arrangements for them, and this is a continuing problem. That is the position. It applies to people who are drawn from 33 nations in the Commonwealth of Nations. The matter is now under examination to make sure that in future all of those categories of people who are coming to Australia are properly counselled and properly arranged in their category so that we can properly assemble the statistics for the whole of the program. It is quite true that at the moment we cannot do that, but I hope that at a later stage this year we will be able to take care of that matter, that we will be able to arrange for all migrants to be properly counselled, properly put into their categories and properly assisted on arrival. It is a gap and it is being attended to. 
For the information of honourble members I present a report on the Migrant Task Force in Tasmania chaired by the honourable member for Franklin. 
 in reply - In closing the second reading debate on the Wool Industry Bill 1974 I should like to thank honourable members from all sides of the Parliament for their contributions to the debate. It is rare that we have before the Parliament a measure which has the unanimous support of the industry and the unanimous expressed support of all sides of the Parliament. This is a matter of gratification to the Government and is especially welcome since this Bill is designed to provide for financing the projected cost of programs of wool research and promotion and for financing the marketing administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation during the 3 years commencing July 1974. The Government's commitment to contribute to the 3-year program of wool research and promotion will provide an immediate and sure base on which forward programs can be developed. 
During the course of the debate a number of points were made, although there has been no opposition to the Bill itself. There has been some minor criticism that the Government has not stated whether it will ensure that research objectives will be met if growers' incomes fall in the future. Also there have been some general criticisms about the Government's policies in the rural sector. Concerning the first point, the finance arrangements have been based on what can be regarded at present as only reasonably conservative expectations of returns from wool sales over the period 1976-77. In the second reading speech it was mentioned that the wool tax in 1974-75 could possibly result in some surplus being added to the reserves of the Wool Research Trust Fund. This reserve will be available, to draw on if necessary in the future. The Australian Wool Industry Conference has not suggested that the expectations on which financing is based are unrealistic. That, I think, covers the points that have been raised during the course of the debate. Arrangements beyond the 3 years provided for in the Bil! are likely to be subject to increased forecasting problems. In this regard  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Primary Industry, has already announced the Government's intention to refer to the Industries Assistance Commission proposals for future programs of wool research and promotion beyond 1976-77. This would seem to be in line with what the Australian Farmers' Federation particularly has been keen to see, namely, an examination of these matters outside the realm of purely party considerations or purely political considerations and based on a proper assessment of what is needed by industries. 
Reference has been made as to whether industries will be able to stand on their own feet. It is not a bad idea to remind ourselves that the sum total of protection and bounties paid to all Australian industries - primary, secondary and tertiary - amounts to in excess of $3, 000m every year. It is interesting that of that amount something of the order of only $300m under the policies of past governments has been available for the rural sector. This is one-tenth of the total. This seems to me to indicate the inadequacy of previous arrangements. We now have new arrangements which are operative at this time. The Minister for Primary Industry has indicated that under the new arrangements the new Commission will be able to study the forward needs and requirements of Australia's greatest single industry beyond 1976-77. 
Some Opposition speakers have asked where the Government stands at present. It was interesting to hear the comments of members of the Opposition. It is interesting also to examine their last 3 years of disastrous administration in rural matters, now forgotten. Nevertheless the figures speak for themselves. For example the average seasonal greasy price has been forgotten. In 1969-70 it was 82.78c a kilo; in 1970-71 it was 64.68c a kilo and in 1971-72, the last year in office of the previous Government, it was 75.25c a kilo. Of course in 1972-73 there was a welcome change in more than one direction and the price rose to 183.77c. Perhaps for the benefit of some deaf members of the Opposition I should repeat that the price in 1972-73 rose to 183.77c a kilo. At the moment there has been some fall in price and it is down to 150c a kilo. The price is still twice that which was operating during the previous administration, and that administration was in office for 23 years. As I said, the price is now down to 150c a kilo but the current seasonal average is, I think, 193c a kilo. 
Let us examine what the Opposition - the last Government - wanted to do in relation to the wool industry. Where did it stand? Members opposite wanted to say what the reserve price should be and the interesting figure of 36c was suggested. That was quite incredible. This was the stand taken by members of the Opposition at that time. It is a pity that they have not remembered their past sins of omission and commission. In my own area of Riverina the price for some western wools went down to 29c and even less. There was no consideration given to that situation by the then Government. The only contribution of members opposite then was to say that we should have market management by which they intended to bring in restrictions and quotas that would, in fact, have reduced the clip and sheep numbers. Sheep numbers were dramatically reduced and we are suffering in a number of directions as a result. In talking about where the Government stands, it is obvious that it does not stand with the Opposition on a price of 36c. If members of the Opposition want to pursue this particular topic in the House, on the hustings or elsewhere it would not be a bad idea for them to come up with an alternative program, especially as they are interested in long term stability. We would be interested to hear what they have in mind because their last words to the Parliament concerning this industry was the suggestion of a price of 36c. If that is where members opposite stand, let them be heard. We will be interested to hear from them. 
The Government has said that there should be a search for stability. I am particularly dedicated to seeing this brought about. The Government has certainly provided stability in other industries - for example, with respect to sugar and wheat. It is interesting to note in passing that the wheat growers of the nation this year will get as much in one year as they got in 3 years under the previous administration. This is no mean achievement. Let us consider the position as it should be in relation to Australia's greatest industry. We want to see long term stability. We have certainly waited for the Corporation to come forward with its report. It has now been made generally available. It is now being debated by the industry and I would hope that it would be considered seriously by members on both sides of this Parliament. We in Government will be very interested to hear from the Opposition as to what it really would like to see done. We in Government are pledged to ensure long term stability in the industry and we will be choosing the best and most effective ways to bring this about because it is part of the general thrust of the policy which I must admit has not been recognised and has not come through clearly and definitely at this time. 
The member of the National Alliance Party who has just interjected is in a Party that has been decimated. As a matter of fact, we heard today in the House about one of the Party's members being castigated for deserting it by becoming our illustrious Ambassador to the Republic of Ireland. So the poor honourable member who interjected ought to go back to Western Australia and help his colleagues to lick their wounds. Coming back to the Bill, I want to say that we have had a very useful debate and I thank all honourable members for the contributions they made in relation to wool research and promotion. The contributions by and large have been useful. I hope that the standard of the debate will be maintained notwithstanding the natural interjections from those who have been hurt by recent events. In closing the debate I point out that it is a matter of gratification to the Government- 
Yes I am. The speakers on your side were rostered. 
On behalf of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who began the debate, I am happy to close it and to say on behalf of the Government that we are gratified that there has been unanimity in the Parliament and within the industry on this measure which we have introduced. 
Minister for Immigration (5.40) - I refer to clause 12 which reads in part as follows: 
Section SI of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: - 
The amendment made by sub-section (1) does not affect the remuneration payable to a member of the Australian Wool Corporation, or to the deputy of such a member, before his remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) leave out 'Corporation', insert Testing Authority'. 
This small amendment to the Bill is necessitated because of a simple error in the printing of the Bill which was undetected prior to the distribution of the Bill to the House. 
One or two points were raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I was not sure whether I should reply or take the honourable member seriously because he confessed that he was joking and was speaking for a laugh. But I suppose in case anyone thought he was serious I had better just make a clarification which apparently the honourable member overlooked at the second reading stage. The honourable member talked about the financing arrangements if in fact the incomes of growers fell. I would like to make the point again, seeing that he apparently missed it in the second reading debate, that the financing arrangements have- been based on what can only be regarded - and again I say this to him and I hope that he is paying attention to me at present - as reasonably conservative expectations of returns for wool over the period concerned. Also the wool tax in 1974-75 can possibly result in some surplus being added to the reserve of the Wool Research Trust Fund, and this will be available to draw on if necessary in the future. So if the honourable member did not hear this the first time I hope that he has heard it now. 
Secondly, I would like to say that the previous Government in fact refused to give, and never at any time gave, any guarantee that any shortfall in growers' contributions at any rate of tax would be made up by the Government. Of course what has been put forward now is something which the previous Government did not in fact do. I think this is something that has to be acknowledged. The honourable member for Angas referred to rural credit. During the reign of his administration, and in particular towards the end of it, there was no rural credit available at all. All the channels had dried up, and he was a deliberate party, with his colleagues, to accepting that there would be an imposition of 24 per cent on many items of machinery through hire purchase and other loans. He accepted it and in doing so was a guilty man. 
I said during the course of 1972 and previous to that that it would be possible to make available $500m at 3 per cent and, what is more, I said that we should be aiming in that direction. It is interesting to see the situation after 15 months. When I last checked there was $350m available in rural credit in all forms from 4i per cent upwards. There was more credit available than there were takers. I have come to the conclusion that the only man who has been suspect in the present situation is the honourable member for Angas because he has been most concerned. If he likes to make some personal representation I am sure that we can service even him. I want it to be quite clear that the only man out of step in this debate has been the honourable member for Angas. If he has any integrity in this matter and opposes it I invite him to vote against the Bill. Otherwise I am delighted to see the degree of unanimity on this important measure concerning the greatest industry we have in Australia today. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, in the remarks of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  concerning  Mr Tora.  The honourable member said that I had abused  Mr Tora.  I did not abuse  Mr Tora  personally. I rebutted his insults to Australia and its policies when he raised them in Fiji. In fact the criticisms of 

 Mr Tora were made by his own fellow countrymen whom he brought here. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
That is a matter of opinion. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) No such undertakings have been given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Consultations are already proceeding at my request between my Department and the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Attorney-General's on the desirability of having included in the 'Notice to Australian Travellers' - which my Department issues to all Australian passport holders - a reference to the fact that Australian citizens abroad are required to observe the laws of the countries in which they happen to be and that, should they encounter difficulties, they should immediately contact or request access to the appropriate Australian Government representative in that country. I will arrange for y,ou to be informed of my decision on this matter. 
Protection of Areas as National Parks (Question No. 360) 
At the beginning of the remarks of the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  I was encouraged by his statement that the men of violence, the men who cut the microphone cord and the men who refused not only to listen to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but also to the Western Australian Minister for Health, were in the main not farmers. I think that is true. When I read reports of the riots, the disorders and the violence in Western Australia I thought I was listening to a report from 
Kampala, the capital of Uganda, and not a report from Perth, the capital of Western Australia. Whoever the General Amin was who. directed these men of violence and deliberately organised the demonstration should be thoroughly ashamed of himself. Whoever the organiser was - I call him General Amin but I do not know him - I am sure all members on both sides of this Parliament will reject violence and the practice of silencing people who have a point of view. I was encouraged by the statement of the honourable member for Forrest that the action was certainly not carried out by farmers. I cannot imagine farmers being unfair in that way. As far as the extremists are concerned, they spoke for themselves and they were rejected by the majority of the Australian people. I do not regard the political comments about the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as relevant to that matter. I think they are quite separate. 
I am also very grateful to the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  tonight foi raising a series of matters in a detailed and proper way in relation to the statements made by  Mr Knox.  I must say that I am shocked and dismayed that any Australian in public life would be so blatantly racist in intent and words as  Mr Knox.  If his reported statements are true he wants an immediate restoration of racist discrimination such as existed for the past 23 years. He said: 
The policies of the past were right. They may be regarded as racist, but the White Australia policy was right and in the country's best interests. 
This is obviously a call for the restoration of racist policies which would align Australia with South Africa, apartheid, Rhodesia - I think it goes further than that; Nazi Germany. That is an extreme statement and I have never heard the like of it anywhere. If that is  Mr Knox's  view I believe he is out of step with Australia. We have always been a country of fair go and fair play and the nondiscriminatory policy puts the onus on the man as he is and not what he purports to be.  Mr Knox  made a statement to which the honourable member for Bowman referred and to which I have referred. 
But he also said something else which I think should be dealt with tonight in the national Parliament. He made the extraordinary claim that 30,000 illegal people came to Australia in the past 7 months under the easy visa system. The facts are as indicated in my statement yesterday. The Department of Immigration computer records indicate that perhaps 960 or 1,000 people - that is all - came into Australia under that system, not 30,000. If  Mr Knox  handles justice in Queensland as he handles figures, God help Queensland. Of the 10 complaints put forward by the honourable member for Bowman - I tried to note them - three referred to the Australian Government administration. I undertake to probe them fully and completely and if there is any wrongdoing by Australian officers I will deal with it. But of the 7 other complaints against the Queensland Government officers and institutions which  Mr Knox  supports in an extraordinary way, I cannot rebut them. They are beyond my responsibility. Of the British, Americans, Europeans and other Asians deported from Brisbane in the past 3 years, there have not been such complaints on file, but from this group there are. I intend to set them out as conveyed to me and ask the Prime Minister to request the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  to investigate them, just as I shall willingly investigate the complaint against Australian Government officers. 
It has also been claimed by someone who is associated with the Queensland legal fraternity that under the past administration murderers and racketeers come in without let or hindrance. I also intend to probe that claim and that criticism of the past administration. I find it an extraordinary statement, but still in my position I think I have a responsibility to look at all these matters and to investigate all these statements that have been made not only in Brisbane but also in Fiji. 
To the honourable member for Bowman I say: I believe that  Mr Knox  has defiled Australia's reputation by his racist statement. I think  Mr Knox  and his blanket support for the complaints made by a minority of people has accepted severe criticism of his own officers and of State officers generally on 7 counts. It is true that he has also indicted Australian Government officers. I have made my position plain on that score. We will see to it that if there were any abuses they will be investigated. But we will see to it also that they are put right. I challenge the Queensland authorities to do exactly the same as I am doing myself - to call for a full and open report on the serious charges that were made, which are a stain on Australia's good reputation. I do not put them forward; I do not sus tain them. But I am placing on record in this House that charges were made in another country and by residents of Brisbane which reflect on the good order and conduct of the Queensland Government and the Australian Government. I take those charges very seriously because I am concerned about anything that reflects on the good name of my country, and I would hope that that applies to all honourable members. 
As far as I am concerned, there will be an inquiry. I would hope that when the Prime Minister presents - I am sure he will do so- my request to the Premier of Queensland, because that is the drill, the Premier of Queensland likewise will initiate the full inquiry that I am undertaking myself. I further call upon the Opposition in this Parliament and particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who at one time was the minister of State for Immigration, to tell us in this Parliament what their reaction is to the advice that has been given to this Government, to the national Parliament and to the nation by the Queensland Minister for Justice,  Mr Knox  - that we should return to the past, that we should discriminate, that we should repeal all the things that have been done to abolish discrimination and put it all back again.  Mr Knox  is entitled to his view, but I think also that it is very important for the present Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament, the right honourable Billy Mackie Snedden, and for his future that he should say exactly where he stands in relation to this matter. I invite him very calmly, very peacefully and very frankly to do just that. 
There was an interjection Wait until he is Prime Minister'. Of course, if he is going to be Prime Minister and if he is going to return us to the dark days of the past, I think that would be a disaster not only for those of us here in the chamber but also for everybody in the Australian community. The Leader of the Opposition has a responsibility to say where he stands, and I have given him a very courteous invitation to express himself because a senior member of the Liberal Party has called for a return to discrimination, a return to racism and a return to past policies. If the Leader of the Opposition disagrees with that, let him come in here and say so. 
The illegals claimed that they had only one bucket between fourteen persons. It seemed to me to be a mighty big bucket. But the bucket over Australia from our neighbours and the world if we return to the racist policies of the past would drown us all as good neighbours for an entire generation, and I think that the bulk of the Australian people will reject that. 
I can understand the honourable member's concern for the good name of Queensland, just as I have concern for the good name of Australia in such matters. I have not as yet completed the draft of the letter to the Prime Minister which I undertook to formulate to request a formal investigation in the same way as I am carrying out an investigation into the 3 complaints that were made in relation to Australian Government personnel. I think it is important that these matters be cleared up quickly. 
 Mr Speaker,  speaking to the point of order, perhaps I can help the honourable member. He has asked me on notice whether in fact the complaints were correct. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I did make a statement during my visit to Manchester, England, referring to increases in real production in the first year of the new Labor Government. 
The statement was based on a report by the Immigration Planning Council which said, inter alia: 
The Council noted with satisfaction the vastly improved employment opportunities in Australia but expressed its concern at the serious strains being placed on the economy by the rising level of unfilled demand for labour. As from August, job vacancies have exceeded registered unemployed. In October, unfilled vacancies notified to the Department of Labour exceeded registered unemployed by 25,713. In seasonally-adjusted terms vacancies exceeded unemployed by over 9,000. August statistics show that the average level of overtime working rose to an alltime record level of 4 hours per week, seasonally adjusted, despite the relative inefficiency of using overtime for production. The September figure was almost as high, at 3.9 hours per week-. 
It was noted that the most serious shortfalls were in skilled and semi-skilled occupations. 
The Council supports and emphasises the necessity for apprenticeships and other training and retaining schemes to help meet the long-term needs of the Australian economy for skilled labour. The importance of stepping-up such programs without delay was stressed. However, such schemes are essentially longterm and cannot make a significant contribution to solving the current shortages. 
Consideration was given to the extent that current labour shortages might be overcome by including employable persons not presently in the workforce to become employed. It was noted, however, that total civilian employment has already risen sharply and that the former reserves of manpower in the economy have already, largely, been absorbed. The number of wage and salary earners grew by 182,000 or about 4 per cent in the 12 months to August 1973, compared with an increase of some 46,000 or about 1 per cent in the year to August 1972. In the three months to August 1973, the rate of increase was even greater, representing an annual rate of S.2 per cent.  The Council took particular note of the minimal effect of the tariff reductions earlier this year upon the level of unemployment. It was reported that between July and November, only 36 persons were registered with the Department of Labour as having become unemployed as a result of the tariff cuts. 
Industrial production is continuing to show strong upward movement. Of 33 'indicator' items examined in September 1973, 21 had shown an increase in their output of 20 per cent or more over the preceding year; only six had shown decreases. Consumer demand is now very strong with retail sales for the September quarter 1973 standing 11.5 per cent above the level of the corresponding period in 1972. Export demand for Australian goods has remained high. 
See (1). 
See (1). 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The procedures under the Returning Australians Scheme have been revised. The benefits of the scheme are now available to single people as well as married couples and family groups with children. Australian citizens who have not previously received assistance to migrate to this country in their own right and who have settled abroad for a reasonable period of time may apply for an assisted passage under the Returning Australians Scheme. 
A minimum period of 3 years, except in special circumstances. 
The applicant must have taken up residence abroad and not merely been on a short or long term working holiday. 
From December 1972 to January 1973 (latest available date): (a) 183,* (b) 56. 
* Some of these still be processed. 
The answerto the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
(a) The release was one of a series written by  Mr H.  Keen based in London and  Mr T.  Murrell based in Rome, both of the Australian Department of the Media, who do an outstanding job in helping to project Australia and its policies in the most desirable way from the point of view of our national interests and to whom thanks have been recorded to the Minister in charge of their operations. 
The release in question was approved by me. The term 'incredible scenes of hospitality and enthusiasm' was used by the Mayor of Plati in his welcome which has now been made the subject of a commemoratory publication by the municipality. 
I was accorded a warm and cordial welcome also in Ireland, Britain, Malta and Thailand which I also visited. 
