My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. The Minister is no doubt aware of criticism suggesting inconsistency between, on the one hand, the Government's proposal to reform restrictive trade practices laws to encourage greater competition and, on the other hand, acceptance of advice from the Industries Assistance Commission for a greater rationalisation of manufacturing industry with fewer producers and consequently less competition. Does the Minister agree with that criticism? 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration will recall that on or about 20 August this year he undertook to inquire into the matter of migrant nomination by development companies with particular reference to Western Australia. Has the Minister completed his inquiries? If so, does he intend to take any action? 
As a passenger on the TransAustralian Airlines 727 flight which experienced extreme turbulence between Perth and Adelaide yesterday, I ask the Minister for Transport whether he will initiate an inquiry into the incident to see whether the causes can be established so that similar incidents might be avoided in the future. 
In talking to the estimates of the Department of Environment and Conservation I think it is well to remember that this is a new department which was created just after the 1972 election. It remains a relatively small department and its expenditure this year involves an amount slightly in excess of $18m. However, its smallness and the smallness of the sum it intends to spend are no measure of the importance of this Department because it has the role of trying to draw attention to the greatest crisis facing modern man. This crisis involves the effects of the technology of Western industrialised society upon society. It is not to say that the technology of this society is all bad- I am not sufficient of a Luddite to go that far but it is also not to say that all the technology that our society is producing is good or even that the technology produced today is so good that it can overcome the problems created by the technology of yesterday. Indeed, when we look at the greatest problem that confronts us- the energy crisis- I do not think there is any reliable evidence to indicate that the solutions that are being suggested for the problem of the energy crisis will not produce worse problems than those the solutions seek to overcome. 
We have only to consider the suggestion of uranium as an energy source to realise that we are beset with enormous problems associated with nuclear reactors, problems of leakage and the transport of uranium and associated material. Not the least of the problems is the disposal of the waste products from the processing. While these problems continue to beset our type of society the task of this department will become increasingly important. Probably they are no more important than in a society such as ours which continues to be a society based on what is basically, although not perfectly, a market economy. Australia still has essentially a market economy in which the market is supposed to fix fair prices, to allocate resources, to determine investment and to determine levels of employment. Whilst the greatest apologists for the free enterprise system recognise that some sort of government intervention is necessary they do not go far enough. They are prepared to recognise that government intervention is necessary to influence full employment and stabilise prices but they are not prepared to go the whole way. Indeed, a limited amount of intervention leads to many problems. 
The absence of any planning in the Australian economy has led to the misallocation of resources, to inefficiences, to suffering and to disguised poverty, particularly in the rural sector. Whilst everybody is prepared to ackowledge that government has a right and duty to intervene in the economy, there does not seem to be a universal acknowledgment of the need for government to intervene elsewhere. Nowhere is this more clear than in the field of environmental policy. Despite all the warnings and the forebodings there still seems to exist among people who are the supporters of the free enterprise system the belief that the government has no real role in determining environmental policy. However, there is no market in our economy for putting a price on clean air, for determining what the price is of maintaining fresh and abundant water supplies or for setting a price for ensuring that rivers remain unpolluted. Until our economy takes into account the concept of the disamenity that accompanies development we shall continue to experience great problems. It seems that nowhere are these sorts of views expounded more clearly and more often than in Western Australia, because there we have the greatest of the cowboy economists who still stalk this earthnamely,  Sir Charles  Court. The cowboy economist is the man who sits on his horse at the end of the prairie and as far as he is concerned the resources of the whole world are limitless. As far as the eye can see, there are no constraints and no problems in relation to unlimited development as he sees it. Unfortunately, while people like  Sir Charles  Court maintain an influence in the economy of Australia the role of this Department and this Government will continue to be extremely important. 

 Sir Charles Court does not understand that there is a conflict between development and the environment.  His  view is that developers should develop as fast as they can for as long as they can get away with it. The developers will be brought to task only if it is absolutely essential in terms of the implications of the development that they are espousing. The agreements that have been made in regard to developments in Western Australia, where the State has been committed to responsibility for the disposal of waste and for the clearing up of the mess which that development brings with it, are an absolute disgrace. So long as people like  Sir Charles  Court remain intransigent and on the one hand do not really recognise that there is conflict but on the other hand, when really pressed, are prepared to make some acknowledgment of it, there will continue to be a basic irrationality in their point of view. When the Minister for the Environment and Conservation was drawing attention to the possible dangers of the Alwest complex- we all know that the Minister is a very mild mannered and rational type of expositor of this point of viewthe Premier of Western Australia said that this was absolute nonsense, that there had never been any dangers from bauxite mining in Western Australia and that in fact it was fruitless continuing a conversation with the Minister because he just did not understand. 
The real dangers of the Alwest project are that in order to mine bauxite one has to remove the trees and once the trees are removed the water table rises and it becomes contaminated with salt, thereby possibly putting in jeopardy the future water supplies of Perth and the productivity of the surrounding farmlands. Without acknowledging that probability publicly, at least not to the Minister, only a couple of days later  Sir Charles  Court's own Minister for Lands brought in some legislation which was designed to cope with this very problem. Associated with the jarrah forests in Western Australia is the problem of 'die-back' which leads to the death of the forests with similar implications for the water table beneath to those which come from removing trees altogether.  Mr Ridge  said that the disease caused a serious loss of forest productivity but its potential to affect water supplies could prove an even greater problem, and that the effects of the disease could greatly increase the salinity of southwest water supplies and soils. We will continue to be confronted with this sort of irrationality- this hedging and jumping from one position to another- so long as this development mania remains dominant in Western Australia. 
Another similar example to which the Minister for the Environment and Conservation drew attention relates to the need to preserve the wet lands which in Western Australia are now under threat. This is not a local problem. Nor is it a national problem. It is a problem which has been recognised internationally. Although  Sir Charles  Court criticises the Minister for drawing attention to these sorts of problems, a very well respected ecologist in Western Australia  Dr Riggert  alluded to the same thing. He said that the loss of the wet lands through development and the resulting loss of wildlife was a universal tragedy; that this problem was world-wide; and that no country could afford the luxury of losing this asset. Unfortunately, there will continue to be similar irrationality until such time as people are prepared to face up to the dangers that accompany rampant development or development which is not proceeded by proper studies with proper consideration of what effect it will have on the environment. So, there is a very important role for this Department to play, namely, to act on behalf of the Australian Government, quite unapologetically and using all the constitutional powers which the Australian Government has in relation to imports and so on, to make sure that no projects are allowed to go ahead, no matter who is backing them and no matter whose money is involved, unless proper precautions have been taken. I am sure that the grandchildren of this generation will not thank us and will not thank  Sir Charles  Court for messing up their water supply. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware that certain tyres for agricultural machinery, specifically the 10 x 28 size, are impossible to obtain in certain parts of Western Australia? Is this indicative of a nationwide shortage? In view of the fact that such a shortage would be inconsistent with the alleged surplus capacity of the industry, will the Minister investigate the real position of the industry to ascertain whether its current complaints are entirely justified? 
I rise to draw attention to a rather unfortunate set of incidents which have occurred primarily in Western Australia. They relate to the continued allegations by a Minister in the State Government of Western Australia of political patronage in relation to the disbursement of funds under the regional employment development scheme. All honourable members will know that that scheme has been introduced in an attempt to alleviate the worst excesses in unemployment where they occur in recognisable and definable pockets. If I give a catalogue of the events which have occurred it will give some indication of the malevolence of the Minister to whom I refer. 
Honourable members will know that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  in a Press release on 1 1 September, announced the details of the scheme. These details were broadcast widely around the country. On 13 September, 2 days later, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to all State Premiers inviting them to nominate representatives to a joint State-Federal committee to help administer the fund at the State level. By the end of September all local government authorities had been circularised with the details of the scheme. In Western Australia the first allocation was made early in October to the Shire of Kwinana, partly as a result of my own efforts. On 17 October we first had the allegation of political patronage in a question from the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who said, inter alia: 
Does the Minister concede that some Labor Party political patronage has taken place under the regional employment development scheme with the ad hoc allocation of funds? 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration replied, inter alia: 
I would challenge any person to say truthfully in this Parliament that the RED ministers have shown any favouritism as between one area and another. We have not rejected one single project that has complied with the criteria set down by the Ministers and which have been published for everyone to see. 
I should mention that on 17 October, when the Minister answered that question, allocations were made to the local government authorities in Bussleton and Mandurah. It is well to point out that both those areas are represented in this Parliament by Liberal members. One area is represented by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  and the other by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey).  However, this did not seem to concern  Mr Rushton,  the Minister for Local Government in Western Australia, who on 20 October addressed a meeting of the Local Government Association. The 'Sunday Times' reported  Mr Rushton  's speech.  Mr Rushton  indicated what the RED scheme was and said that there had been no approach to the State Government to co-ordinate the program. He was angered, he said, by the Commonwealth's attitude. The article states that he said: 
It is discourteous and rude, and destructive to State Government efforts to co-ordinate State and local projects in generating much needed employment throughout Western Australia. 
I should remind the House that this was said in spite of the fact that the Prime Minister had written to  Sir Charles  Court more than one month previously. As a result of those remarks by the Minister for Local Government, the Local Government Association was moved to reflect that it appeared that preference was given to a local authority fortunate enough to have a Labor politician in its area. I would not dispute that any local authority which has a Labor representative is indeed fortunate, but it is ridiculous to say that that has anything to do with the allocation of these funds. They went on to say that this view was borne out by several Press reports of council grants received. I might mention that at that time only 4 grants had been made to Western Australia, two to areas in Labor seats and two to areas in Liberal seats. 
It was not until 2 1 October that the Premier of Western Australia finally got round to replying to the Prime Minister, that is, about 6 weeks after the Prime Minister had written to the Premier. That indeed meant that Western Australia was the last State to respond to the Prime Minister's invitation. However,  Mr Rushton  was not set back by this. When he was addressing the Western Australian division of the Institute of Municipal Administration  Mr Rushton  accused the Federal Government of indulging in political horse trading in the distribution of unemployment relief funds. Allegations of this sort are quite incredible in an area of such sensitivity and national importance. 
I would have let the matter rest there and I would not have bothered raising it in this House, if it had not been for the fact that  Mr Rushton  continued to make these vicious allegations. On 25 October he is reported in the 'West Australian' as saying that he is interested in coordinating the applications in Western Australia. Nobody has any objection to that. In fact, it was the Prime Minister's intention that this indeed should happen. But  Mr Rushton  asked all local authorities to provide information because of his suspicion that the Federal Government was being unduly selective in choosing councils to receive unemployment relief. He said that the Commonwealth had made direct approaches to local authorities in Albany, Bunbury, Geraldton and Kwinana but had not told him anything. 
I might again remind the House that on 13 September the Prime Minister had written to the Premier inviting him to participate in the scheme. The article in the 'West Australian states: 

 Mr Rushton said that it did not make sense for the Commonwealth to bypass the State Government in dealing directly with councils over the relief program. 
That is quite an incredible sort of statement to make in view of the facts as I have indicated them to the House. 
I should Uke to indicate a fact of which  Mr Rushton  should have been well aware, namely, that the funds were made available first to those areas which were nominated as a result of a perusal of unemployment data showing isolated areas where the pockets were greatest and the problem was greatest. In fact those areas in Western Australia were the first areas to receive relief. The only reason why I had to have anything to do with the application of the Kwinana shire was that that shire had first filed its application via the State Government. But after the first allocations were made and announced it was discovered that Western Australia had not received anything and it was at that stage that I moved in to support the application of the shire of Kwinana. Whilst that shire had made its application well in time, the application had not been forwarded by the State Government to the RED Ministers in order that an allocation might be made. 
I mention in passing that when I went to the office of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  I was treated extremely courteously not only by the Minister but also by officers of his Department who were available to talk to aU honourable members. It is worth mentioning that while I was in the Minister's office the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  was also there receiving the same sort of courteous treatment as I received from the officers of the Minister's Department. 
I think that it is an absolute outrage that responsible people, Ministers of a State government, should try to make a political football out of the plight of the unemployed. Everybody acknowledges that unemployment is a serious problem whenever and wherever it occurs. When a Government makes strenuous efforts to provide unemployment relief in a form which gives jobs which are of some meaning to the people who are doing them and also of some meaning to the community, and which provide some valuable contribution to the development of those communities, it is indeed appalling that a State Liberal Minister should continue to make these baseless allegations and try to undermine the scheme. 
-The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill goes to the very root of the problem of Commonwealth-State financial relationships. Unfortunately this is a very poorly understood matter despite the fact that it is the basis of one of the most highly publicised controversies in contemporary Australian politics. The debate surrounding this controversy has been disappointing in that it has usually developed into a slanging match between the State and Federal governments, regardless of which parties happen to be in power at either of the levels. That in itself is a matter of deep concern because the progress of this nation will be limited for as long as State-Federal rivalries dominate the mainstream of political thought. 
I have said that this controversy has been mainly between the State and Federal Governments irrespective of the parties. To illustrate this I think one needs only to point to the feud which used to be waged between the Gorton Federal Government and the Bolte Government in Victoria. However, despite that fact, there is no question that the degree of animosity has increased sharply as a result of the election of a Federal Labor Government. State Premiers have become much more vindictive than they ever were before. 
I think to discover the reason for this increased animosity it is important to have a general understanding of the changes that have taken place in State-Federal financial relationships. There are 3 categories under which the Federal Government makes finance available to the States. The broad headings are general revenue assistance, general purpose capital funds and specific purpose payments. I will examine specifically the changes that have occurred in the general purpose capital funds and the specific purposes payments. The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill makes available to the States funds under the heading of general purpose capital funds. These funds come within the categories of borrowings and capital grants, which are interest free non-repayable grants. These borrowings and grants are available for capital purposes only and recurrent expenditures are found from other sources. 
The origin of this Bill goes back to the June 1974 Premiers Conference when the Loan Council program was agreed upon between the State and Federal Governments. At that time it was agreed to increase the allocation to the States from $0.8 billion in 1973-74 to $0,935 billion in 1974-75 including nearly $ 10m in extra borrowings for Queensland to overcome the problems created by the floods. In September of this year the amount was increased to just over $ 1 billion, making an increase of 21.5 per cent over the 1973- 74 figure. Of this amount $0.7 billion was in the form of borrowings and $0,326 billion was in the form of non-repayable grants. I think it is important to take account of the proportion that was made up of grants as opposed to borrowings. The grants have increased from 24.3 per cent in 1970-71 under the previous Federal Government to 32.1 per cent under the present Government in 1974-75. That in itself is quite significant in as much as the amount that is non-repayable has increased from one-quarter to nearly onethird of the total amount made available under these arrangements. 
The other main form of assistance that the States receive for capital and recurrent expenditure comes under the heading of specific purpose grants. These have increased from $1.5 billion in round figures in 1973-74 to $2.6 billion in 1974- 75, that is, an increase of 64 per cent in adjusted terms. This has meant that the total allocation to the States under all 3 headings has increased from $4.3 billion in 1973-74 to $6.1 billion in 1974-75 -an increase of 40 per cent. So I think that when one considers the program in total- a 40 per cent increase being made available to the States when the increase in expenditure of this Government is of the order of 33 per cent- the wailing of some of the State Premiers has to be taken with a grain of salt. Indeed, the total increases that took place in the last year of the previous Government were of the order of 1 8.4 per cent. In the first year of this Government the increases amounted to 20.6 per cent and, as I said previously, for this current year they will amount to 40 per cent. 
One of the things that some of the Premiers complain about is that, when the Australian Government takes over total responsibility for some areas, a balancing reduction is made in general purpose grants. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made this point very clear both at the 1973 Premiers Conference and at the 1974 Premiers Conference. At the June 1974 Conference, he said: 
The Australian Government is firmly committed to this principle and will pursue its application wherever appropriate. I have informed the Premiers of our intention to do so in respect of initiatives we are taking in the fields of Aboriginal affairs and assistance for deserted wives, and I expect that further cases could arise as we develop our policies in other areas. 
These intended areas of involvement in Aboriginal affairs and assistance to deserted wives followed the Australian Government's assumption of complete responsibility in the area of tertiary education. In response to the words of the Prime Minister, the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, issued the following circular to his Ministers: 
The Commonwealth Government has introduced a wide range of programs under which funds are offered to the State for specified purposes subject to the approval of the program by the Federal Minister concerned. 
In many cases, the grants are payable under conditions which may require the commitment of State funds, either as a specified proportion of the expenditure involved or in the form of maintenance of existing levels of State expenditure. 
It is a firm policy of the Commonwealth Government that where the Commonwealth assumes responsibility for programs so as to relieve the State of expenditure, the State's Financial Assistance Grant and Loan Fund allocation are reduced by a corresponding sum. Consequently, an apparently attractive proposal may offer no real financial advantage to the State when this subsequent adjustment is taken into account. 
Adjustments of this type have already occurred as a result of the Commonwealth taking over the responsibility for financing tertiary education and welfare housing and, at the recent Premiers' Conference, the Prime Minister announced that the Financial Assistance Grants would be further reduced as a result of Commonwealth initiatives in the fields of Aboriginal Affairs and assistance to deserted wives. 
It is essential that the financial implications of any proposed arrangement with the Commonwealth be fully examined before any decision to participate in the arrangement is made and preferably before negotiations are far advanced. Accordingly, the Treasury should be informed immediately of any financial proposals put forward by the Commonwealth at Ministerial or departmental level and arrangements made for a Treasury officer to be involved in any negotiations. 
Would you please advise your departmental officers of this requirement. 

 Sir Charles Court's remarks would not appear to be too unreasonable but an examination of what has happened in the area of tertiery education upon the assumption of total responsibility by the Australian Government shows that his is a fairly shallow sort of threat. In fact, as a result of an Australian Government taking over responsibility for tertiary education, an adjustment of $2.7 million was made to the 1973-74 Loan Council programs. This amount represented expenditure for the half-year because the assumption of responsibility by the Australian Government took place on 1 January 1974. In 1974-75 the Western Australian Loan Council program was reduced by $5. 4m. This matter has to be seen in the context of the increase in total expenditure in the field of tertiary education in those 2 years. The combined capital and recurrent expenditure on universities and colleges of advanced education increased from $ 15.7m in 1972-73 to $43.6m in 1973-74, and in 1974-75 it is intended to be $69.6m. One can clearly see that the increases far outweighed the reductions which took place in the Loan Council programs. 
I think that the attitude of the Premier is doubly ridiculous when one realises- I understand that this is the case- that his circular was also sent to some of the institutions which are in the area of total Australian Government responsibility. For instance, it would be absurd if teachers colleges which are autonomous and which are funded directly by the Australian Government were asked to go into an involved and complicated process before they were able to receive any assistance from the Australian Government for any specific programs. Yet this is the sort of intimidation that is inherent in the circular which has been circulated by the Premier. I think that only indicates that many of the State Premiers have grossly over-reacted to the changes which have taken place. They do not really take into consideration the reason for this change having taken place. It was only as a result of many of the States failing to come to grips with the problems which were crying out for solution that the Australian Government insisted on taking an active role in areas which had previously been the province of the States. 
One only has to point to the areas of education, Aboriginal affairs and the extension of urban facilities, which are 3 areas of very gross neglect when they were the sole province of State governments and one only has to look at the massive increase which has occurred in education expenditure, the expenditure on Aboriginal affairs and expenditure such as that for the extension of sewerage into the suburbs, to realise what a backlog of neglect existed prior to the Australian Government becoming directly involved. 
So it is this sort of background- a background of neglect, mismanagement and disinterest on the part of many of the States- which has encouraged the Australian Government to come in and fill the void. It is natural that when the Australian Government does take an active interest in the solution of these problems it should take some hand in determining what policies should be developed and should make sure that funds are adequately expended. This is not to say that the States are incapable of doing this but the Australian Government realises that it has the final responsibility to the taxpayer in relation to many of these funds. It is only reasonable that the Australian Government should have a first hand involvement in the problems. 
I think one of the reasons this is important is that in areas such as education and Aboriginal affairs it is quite crucial that the programs developed in each of the States and in the Territories bear some relation, one to the other, and that if one is going to have excessive duplication and lack of co-ordination then this is only going to add to the problems and not add to the solution of them. One would hope that in the near future the atmosphere of antagonism, which has been encouraged, particularly by such Premiers as  Sir Charles  Court and the Premier of Queensland, would give way to a more sensible approach. There is no reason why the Australian Government should not have an involvement in many of these problems in many of these areas of policies which involve Government action. So long as the States maintain and exacerbate this antagonism the solutions to the problems will be delayed by that much. In the end it is necessary that all tiers of government- federal, state and municipal- should co-operate in the solution of these problems because, after all, they are all responsible to exactly the same people and when they co-operate together they can best serve those people. 
-In announcing the Opposition's attitude to this Bill the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  made a number of remarks on which the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  congratulated him for his generosity. I would not go as far as that but I think that the honourable member for Gwydir ought to be congratulated on the progress he has made in the attitude he has adopted to Aboriginal affairs over recent years. I am sure that the honourable member for Gwydir would not remember with much relish his performance during the controversy surrounding the Gurindji people. I think it is fair to say that he has come a long way since then. I certainly congratulate him for it. 
But I think that the honourable member for Gwydir could do a much greater service to Australia and to the Aboriginal people by spending his time trying to persuade his Queensland colleagues- that is, his colleagues in his own Party in Queensland- to tone down their obstructive attitude as far as Aboriginal affairs and co-operation with a central government are concerned. In fact, a former Prime Minister the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was one of those people who drew attention to the abysmal situation as it existed then and still exists in Queensland, particularly as far as discriminatory laws are concerned. If he had remained in office as Prime Minister a little longer he probably would have got round to legislating to outlaw those discriminatory laws and we would not be in the same sort of impasse situation as the one in which we now find ourselves. 
The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  went on to talk about his regret at the subject of Aboriginal affairs having become a political football. I think it is true to say that most of the blame- if 'blame' is the right word- for that rests with his colleagues rather than my own because one can look at the record of the Tonkin Labor Government in Western Australia and see that long before there was a massive provision of federal funds in the field of Aboriginal affairs the Tonkin Labor Government had managed to make great strides in terms of Aboriginal policy and Aboriginal welfare. The first step- rather ironically- of the Tonkin Government was to abolish the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and to set up in its place a number of agencies. Most of the welfare activities of that Department were taken over by the Department of Community Welfare. Some of them went to the Community Health Section of the Department of Health. Alongside this welfare network was set up the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority, which anticipated or at least pre-dated the approach that the Australian Government is taking in trying to regionalise Aboriginal affairs. The Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority, which of course has now become a part of the Australian Government's Department of Aboriginal Affairs, set up a series of offices and headquarters in various regions throughout Western Australia in order to assist the Aboriginal people. As well, a consultative committee was set up to advise the Minister and the Department. Western Australia, under the Tonkin Government, took very great strides in preserving the Aboriginal heritage. I think that the relevant legislation which exists there is probably the best in Australia. 
This Bill- the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill is mainly concerned with the provision of money. In effect it nearly doubles the amount of money which the Australian Government is spending on Aboriginal affairs. As far as Western Australia is concerned it provides for the amount granted to the State Government to increase from just over $ 1 1 m last year to exactly $14m this year. That compares more than favourably with the provision in 1971-72, for instance, of $2. 5m. So one can say that there has been a very massive increase in the amount of money which this Government has made available for Aboriginal affairs. Of course, the question we are talking about is far from being simply one of money. But, even though one can say that it is not simply a question of money, I think that one must see that provision of adequate fundsthe mobilisation of an adequate network- as being the first requisite. It was not really until this Government came into office that at least the money was made available. As a consequence of this money being made available other problems have naturally surfaced and emerged. They are probably the more predominant problems, as far as one can see today, and are probably more important than the pure question of money. One will never be able to cure a problem such as this by money alone. The aim of the total offensive as far as Aboriginal affairs are concerned is to try to facilitate the ability of Aborigines to be a selfdetermining, self-sufficient and self-sustaining people along with other people in the community. Of course that will not be done only by providing money. It will need a restructuring and restrengthening of the whole fabric of the Aboriginal community. 
I do not want to remind the House of the reasons for the disgraceful situation in which Aborigines find themselves today. Fortunately, plenty of people are now reminding us of the 2 centuries of shame and neglect from which this country is only slowly beginning to emerge. It is well that we are reminded of where the neglect and the shame belongs because it can help us to galvanise ourselves into action to overcome those problems. It does not mean that we should be remorseful and guilty about what has gone before. Nothing much can be done about the mistakes and errors, but they can be instructive and make us more interested to try to do more about the problem today. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  talked about the so-called white backlash. It might be as well for him to remind the whites in our community today of the disgraceful record of their forebears and to remind them that the only reason that tilings are as they are is the ignorance and neglect of earlier Australians. It seems to me that is a far better way of trying to fight the so-called white backlash than trying to hide the measures which this Government is taking and trying to explain them away as if the people who receive the support were not really deserving of it. 
I wish to refer to a couple of the sorts of problems which are being tackled by this Government and by the Western Australian Government as a result of the many initiatives which were taken by the previous Western Australian Government and, insofar as it is appropriate, are being continued by the current Western Australian Government or have been taken over entirely by the Australian Government. When people talk about the need for Aborigines to be self-determining one must realise that one cannot just wave a magic wand and expect Aborigines to rise out of the horror of their own situation and to know exactly what they want and how they want to achieve it. It is important that we be absolutely strenuous in our attempts to provide for the Aboriginal groups, whom we are expecting to advise us and whom we are expecting to determine Aboriginal policy, the necessary back-up and support so that they are able to give us advice and be able to determine their own destiny. This is one of the areas which can easily be overlooked. It is fair enough for people to say: It is not our problem any longer. It is up to the Aborigines to tell us what to do. They are the only ones who know what the solutions are.' Unless we demonstrate our bona fides by providing massive support and massive back-up services without impinging on their ability to make up their minds, the whole policy of selfdetermination will be little more than a charade. 
I wish to touch on some of the policy measures which have been taken and which are a clear demonstration of the intentions of this Government. There is a very extensive program of purchasing pastoral properties in Western Australia to provide a firm and stable support system for communities which have shown a viability, a coherence and an ability to support themselves economically. That is clearly an important measure to be taken. Rather than providing these communities with a few tumble-down houses on the outskirts of towns in the north-west they are given the economic wherewithal to provide for themselves on a stable and friendly basis. That is what is done in the remote areas. 
In relation to the metropolitan areas, I refer briefly to an organisation which has emerged as a result of this Government's policy not only of supporting State governments in relation to Aboriginal Affairs but also of providing grants directly to organisations, particularly those which demonstrate a significant amount of Aboriginal control. One of the organisations in Western Australia which has benefited from this policy has been the Aboriginal medical service which in a very short life has grown into something of great significance not only in the Aboriginal community but in Western Australia generally. I have here a report of the Workshop on 
Aboriginal Medical Services which was conducted by the Department of Health in Albury in July this year. An appendix to that report indicates the progress which has been made by the Western Australian Aboriginal medical service. For instance, the appendix shows that from October 1973 until April 1974 the daily average number of patients which attended before it has risen from two to ten. One wonders where those Aborigines would have gone had it not been for the Aboriginal medical service. On an average that is 70 people a week or 300 people a month now receiving medical attention. It is doubtful whether those Aborigines would have received that medical attention or medical attention as good if this service had not existed. 
This medical service is controlled substantially by a committee of Aboriginal people, together with European doctors and nurses and other people who are assisting with the administration. The service is working extremely well and is filling needs as Aborigines see them. It is obviously filling a great need as far as the community is concerned. I point to this organisation as one of the indicators or demonstrations of the way in which this Government is helping to overcome an enormous problem. The Government is helping these Aborigines to become self-determining and self-sufficient in at least one of their needs. 
-I want to address a few remarks to the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill because it is this Bill that is in furtherance of the Government's ambition to see technical education raised to a level which has now been reached by primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education. In the past, technical education has been greatly neglected by the national government, despite the fact that national governments have for some time spent millions of dollars on universities and colleges of advanced education, and this has led to a feeling of despair among those people of the States who are involved in technical education. I quote from a letter received from the  deputy  principal of a technical school in Perth. It read as follows: 
As one who has been deeply involved in technical education for 20 years and who now sees at last a glimmer of hope that the system may be upgraded and be allowed to do its task more efficiently I ask you to ensure that the TAFE in Australia report is tabled and accepted . . . 
He went on to put his full weight behind the report of the Kangan Committee. This is the Bill which implements the recommendations of that Committee. In Western Australia in the 2-year period 1974-75 and 1975-76 this Bill allocates $3.8m for capital expenditure and $3.6m for recurrent expenditure. This compares more than favourably with the figures for the year 1972-73, the last year of the previous Government, when the capital expenditure in Western Australia was a mere $ 1 . 1 m and the recurrent expenditure was exactly nil. When considering these amounts of money it must be remembered that the continuing commitments under previous legislation will continue and, as well as that, the State's commitment to technical education will be expected to be maintained. It seems to me to be superficially curious that it should be a Labor government that accelerates spending on, and indeed discovers, technical education in Australia because it is true that one of the significant beneficiaries of technical education is industry, inasmuch as it reaps the reward of greater efficiency and greater technical skills among the workforce. However, I hasten to add that the Government does not see technical education in this narrow sense. I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  wherein he said: 
We do not wish to see technical and further education denned in any narrow way, related only to skills required by industry. The definition of technical and further education in the Bill covers the broad range of post-school education, including courses which have a vocational bias in order to meet occupational requirements and also courses which are not necessarily vocational but are designed to meet community needs. The Bill is therefore aimed at meeting national needs for an adequately educated and skilled workforce as well as providing continuing education for the adult population. 
Notwithstanding those comments, it is mainly to the needs of trades training and the needs of the skilled workforce that I want to direct my remarks, even though I am aware that the Bill takes great account of the needs of adult education, retraining in conjunction with the national employment and training scheme and also a wide variety of other community needs in terms of further education. Specifically, I direct my remarks to the region associated with the Cockburn Sound industrial area near Kwinana, because nowhere in Western Australia have the needs of technical education been so extensively studied. This area draws on all the local government areas of Cockburn and Kwinana and parts of Rockingham, Fremantle and Melville. It is these areas which provide the vast workforce for the Kwinana industrial area. This area has seen vast expansion over recent years. The population in the local government areas of Rockingham, Cockburn and Kwinana has more than doubled, from 24,000 in 1966 to 49,000 in 1971. It should be remembered that in this industrial area the workforce is employed in very sophisticated industrial activities and the demand for technical education is obviously very great. 
Recognising this, in 1971 Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, which is a subsidiary of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, produced a study which estimated the needs for apprentice training and sub-professional training in the area to the year 1980, depending on various levels of industrial activity. This report revealed that there were great inadequacies in technical education in the region, and as a result of this the Tonkin Labor Government set up the Paterson Committee to look into the needs of technical education in that area. It is worth noting that  Mr Paterson,  who chaired that Committee and who is the Director of Technical Education in Western Australia, later became a member of the Kangan Committee on Technical and Further Education. The Paterson Committee reported in July 1972, and in its report it referred to the needs of the area as follows: 
In planning to meet these emerging demands - 
That is, talking about the Kwinana areait  is recognised that both industry and technical education have significant roles to fulfil, particularly in the training required for semi-skilled, skilled and technician or middlelevel personnel. 
It went on to draw the following conclusions: Firstly that the technical education of part-time and evening students is inadequate in the area; secondly, that too many were required to travel too far; and, thirdly, that the need for a technical school in the area was urgent in terms of the requirements of the population, the industrial development and the interests of the employees. At the present time these technical trainees have grossly inadequate faculties. Most of them who live in the Kwinana region have to travel to Fremantle or to other technical schools closer to Perth. This means that students may be required to travel 15 miles each way to Fremantle, which is 30 miles a day, or 20 miles each way to Perth which is 40 miles a day. Obviously it is ludicrous that the training facilities should be so far from the work place and the residence of the trainees. In this instance most of the trainees live and work in the same area. 
If one looks at the case of the part-time student or trainee one sees that he is required to travel long distances for long periods, he is required to take off extra time in order to obtain the training and of course he is required to make a greater amount of effort on his own part. As on-the-job inspections and observations become a more important part of the education process, it is quite ridiculous that the site of the technical school should be so far removed physically from the site of the job. The recommendations of this Paterson report were that a general purpose technical school should be established in Kwinana, and that in its first stage it should provide for training in a wide variety of skills, such as fitting and machining, electrical fitting and installation, boiler making and welding, instrument making, diploma level studies in engineering, mathematics, science, business and commerce, and general studies. It further says that initial planning should commence in August 1972 and that the facilities should be avialable by February 1975. Nothwithstanding the fact that the projections of the Paterson report have not been quite reached in that the expected growth in the number of students in the region has not reached the level which the Paterson report thought it would reach, it is quite clear that there are other factors which have influenced the situation which were not taken into account by that report. For instance, there has been great development in the Pinjarra region. As well as that, the Fremantle technical school has been further burdened with students and it is close to bursting at the seams. 
All these factors point to the very urgent need for a technical school to be located in Kwinana. In the face of this crying need the Western Australian Government has said that there are greater needs in other areas and it has decided to shelve for the present the project for a technical school at Kwinana. Indeed, it blames the Australian Government for lack of funds in this area when in fact this is the first Australian Government to contribute in a massive way to the provision by the States of technical education. Whilst I am not going to say that there might not be other regions in Western Australia which have an equally pressing need, it seems to me that there is a great need for work to proceed in the very near future on the construction of a technical school in this region; and if it is not possible to proceed in this 2-year program, I would urge on both the Western Australian and the Australian governments that a technical school in this region be placed high on the list in the next ensuing period, because I think that no region, no area has spent so much time or been so extensively surveyed and studied as has the Kwinana region in terms of trying to establish the need for a technical school. I think that that need has been established conclusively, and I hope that in the very near future the recommendations of the Paterson report will indeed be implemented. 
Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House of the current position of the hearing of the High Court challenge by the Australian States to the vali'dity of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer to the Government's recent decision on the Alwest project and the comments in the Press which followed that decision. I add that the Minister may have noticed the gratuitous comments made by the Opposition's spokesman on the environment who travelled all the way from outback New South Wales to reveal to Western Australia his ignorance of the issues involved. I ask: What are the environmental conditions imposed by the Australian Government on the Alwest project? Will these conditions prevent the company from proceeding? 
-One of the lamentable aspects of a lack of leadership amongst the Federal non-Labor parties is that they have abdicated the responsibility of leading those non-Labor forces to the State non-Labor leaders, and the particularly unfortunate aspect of this matter is that they place that leadership in the hands of 4 men, at least three of whom are quite lunatic in their approach to politics. I do not have to remind the House of the circumstances which have surrounded the Senate vacancy in New South Wales or the blackmail tactics of the 
Queensland Premier. I point to the fact that because the leadership of the non-Labor parties has fallen to 4 people - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the House is now adjourned until 2.15 p.m. on Tuesday next. 
-We have heard another of those speeches from the Opposition's spokesman on housing affairs, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  which are full of slogans and meaningless propaganda. He is an expert at the technique of putting forward matters of public importance about the plight of the housing industry, and as soon as the Government introduces a measure to assist the industry all he can do is oppose it. There was not a single constructive suggestion in the whole boring 30 minutes of his speech. He is so good at opposing that I hope he enjoys the very many more years that he will spend on that side of the House. 
However, we are dealing with a Bill to set up the Australian Housing Corporation. Everybody accepts and recognises the fact that shelter is a fundamental need of mankind and that it is quite proper for governments to have a role and a responsibility in providing that shelter for people, particularly for those people on whom the provision of shelter imposes an excessive and unreasonable burden. The provision of this need by governments has been complicated in Australia by considerations of so-called free choice and socalled private ownership. These are the 2 issues which have continued to hold back government participation in this field and government attempts to solve the problems. 
Because owning one's own house has become fundamental to the realisation of every Australian's dream, any rational debate has succumbed to the use of emotional slogans mainly by the vested interests who have for so long used the cry of home ownership as their plaything. Considerations of rational planning and innovative and cost cutting building techniques have always played second fiddle to the interests of the developers, the builders and local government authorities who in so many cases play an important role in the housing field. The whole question of the provision of shelter cannot be separated in these circumstances from the mechanics of the market place where the prospective customers are not only captive but also vulnerable. Because private enterprise plays such an important role in the provision of housing, the vagaries of the market place tend to influence the prospects of people who are seeking housing. 
In saying this I do not want to give the impression that I am opposed to private home ownership. I think it is quite a legitimate and understandable ambition for people who live in this sort of competitive society which until recently has provided very inadequately for their security. It is very understandable that they should seek to own their own houses and to make sure that there is some security, at least of having a roof over their heads. However, we should avoidbeing blinded by this obsession with private ownership. We should not be blinded to the considerations of better housing in better environments. Quite clearly there are many situations in which the goal of private home ownership is inappropriate. For instance, for those people who need to move from place to place in order to maintain a job owning their own home is an imposition. What is needed for these sorts of people is some easy rental situation so that they can move easily from one place to another. (Quorum formed) 
We have just seen another of the inane contributions of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who called for a quorum. I noticed the  Deputy  Opposition Whip standing outside the door preventing Liberal and Country Party members from entering the House. I thank the Australian Labor Party members for coming in and providing an audience. I was saying that it is not appropriate in all situations for us to be obsessed with the ideas of private home ownership. The changing needs of people throughout their lives are not necessarily served by owning their homes. They start as a couple, have a family and then gradually withdraw to the position again of one or two people living in the house. It is not appropriate to have the same sized house with the same sort of facilities for the whole of their lifetime. When we consider that these days in order to obtain one's own house one has to obtain finance over a very long period, it is particularly relevant that we should be considering other forms of housing besides simply home ownership. It seems to me that too many people are chained by long term commitments for housing which may or may not be appropriate to their changing needs. 
One of the important factors influencing private ownership is the recognition that prices of housing and prices of land are increasing interminably. It is only sensible that if people are to buy houses and land it is better to do so now than later because less money is involved. However the increase in land prices particularly has Utile to do with this Government and is largely beyond its jurisdiction. So this Government cannot be blamed for the problems of increasing land prices. Similarly the increase in building costs is largely a problem of the private sector. It is a problem of excess demand outstripping the supply of building materials and building labour. This process is not influenced by this Government. It is much more influenced by the capital market in this country, over which this Government until recently has had very little control. 
Even if one wants to emphasise private home ownership beyond all else, it is vitally important for those on small incomes to be assisted financially by governments in a more successful way than has been the case in the past. It is also important for governments to take a role in influencing the variables which determine the cost of housing. If one thinks that the attempts in the past have been satisfactory or successful one needs only to look at the long lists of people waiting for housing commission houses in the States, or at some of the more dismal attempts by those authorities to provide housing for these people, to realise that there is a great deal of room for improvement. Everybody knows that this Government has already done a lot to assist home ownership and housing in all fields. It recently introduced a scheme of tax deductibility for mortgage repayments. It has increased very largely the finance available through the home builders' account and through the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. As well it has tried to assist in the stabilisation of land prices by helping the States to establish Lands Commissions. Now it is proposed to go further with this legislation and provide machinery through which assistance, such as low interest rate loans and second mortgage loans, can be provided to bridge the deposit gap. This sort of assistance is required because of the inevitability that interest rates will always be too high to allow all people to build their own homes. Yet it is not in the best interests of the economy simply to gear interest rates to the needs of the housing industry. Governments must always adjust interest rates to cope with the circumstances of the economy as a whole. Inevitably this will, on occasions, mitigate against the best interests of home seekers. 
The solution, therefore, is to provide flexible arrangements so that when high interest rates do disadvantage home purchasers assistance can be given to those most in need. It is only those who believe in the funny money theories who can possibly believe that a low interest rate structure can exist at a time of high inflation. Low interest rates at this time, in the absence of impossibly restrictive controls, would only fuel inflation and hence take the cost of homes further beyond the reach of the average Australian. What is needed is flexible assistance for those who need it. However, more significantly, what is needed is a new approach to the whole problem. One cannot expect governments continually to underwrite the building industry when that industry suffers so much from the vagaries of the free enterprise system. If we are going to have the aim of providing one house for every Australian family it has to be a public undertaking over which the Government has significant control. In such a situation the Government would have to have regard for a range of matters as well as home finance. It must have some role in the supply and demand management of the whole industry. It must have a role in land development. It must have a role in encouraging new building techniques and new building designs. It also must work towards new forms of tenure. 
Of course, as soon as one mentions this sort of action we hear cries from the conservatives of rigid stultification and boring monotony in house designs. But clearly this does not have to be the case. Already there is a colossal sameness amongst the houses which are being built. This is clearly due to a lack of imagination outside fairly rigid constraints. Ironically, it is the existing system of home purchasing which has stifled adventure and imagination in the provision of new homes. It is very much more difficult to get finance for a non-standard design. It is very much more difficult to get building approval for a non-standard design of house. Even if one does manage to get the finance and the building approval, it is likely that the builder will load the price of the house simply because it is not standard and because he may not have experienced some of the problems involved in building it. One cannot pretend, as the Opposition always pretends, that free choice exists in any real sense for any but the most wealthy who can afford to take what many see as a risk in straying beyond the usual building conventions. 
What is required is a mix between standard components and flexible design. Surely it is not beyond the wit of a highly advanced society such as ours to incorporate these 2 aspects. It is intended, indeed, that this Housing Corporation when it becomes a reality will encourage this. It will make finance available for those people who are interersted in exploring new designs and it will not put a bar on those people who want to build non-standard houses. Far from being a stultifying influence, it will be a new force for diversification and at the same time, efficiency. 
I want briefly to turn to another question which is covered by this Bill and that is the question of student housing, particularly as it affects tertiary and technical students. The Bill provides for the Corporation to provide housing for students as one of those groups of people who fall within the responsibility of the Australian Government. I would hope that such assistance would be made available and could be used to solve a growing problem. Housing of students has, for a very long time, been considered a luxury and an adjunct to the educational process. This is largely a hangover from the days of those universities which had colleges and halls of residences as an extension of the educational process. 
The situation has long since changed. Not only are more people from a wider cross-section of the community undertaking educational courses, inevitably involving people who are not able to afford the fees of colleges and halls of residence but there has also been an increasing specialisation in education which has required that people wanting to undertake courses have had to move to institutions away from their normal place of residence. Education is seen as a key to social mobility. This means that often the direction in which a student might be going might be quite different from the pattern and life style of his own home and his own family. This may mean in the interests of his education and development that he moves out of the family home and finds his own accommodation. As well as this, more people return to education later on in life and are, therefore, in need of the sort of student accommodation which previously has not had to be provided. Increasingly, it is inappropriate for student housing to be handled by those bodies which are essentially concerned with educational funding. As I have said, it has become much less an aspect of the educational process and much more a question of providing housing for a group of people which, from time to time, finds itself in need. 
It may be argued on this basis that students are less needy or have a lower priority than many other people in the community such as the aged and the low income earners. However, it is worth noting in this context that the allowance which is paid to students is, at the maximum, about the same level as many social security benefits. Yet students are excluded from assistance from the State housing authorities. Whereas they have the same income as many social service beneficiaries, they do not have the parallel assistance available to them from housing authorities. It can be shown that in these days of free- or at least fee-less- education there are many people who are prevented from undertaking education simply because of the financial problems of trying to provide housing for themselves or in some cases their families. If that is the case, if there are still financial impositions on people entering education, then it is, indeed, a failure to meet one of the ambitions which we would all like to see achieved. I know that this is one matter the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has under consideration. I would urge him very strongly to take this matter very seriously in the hope that we can see a new deal for an increasing range of students who at present are disadvantaged. 
It is my great pleasure to second the nomination of  Mr Berinson,  the honourable member for Perth, as  Chairman  of Committees in this House. I would have hoped that by the time we reached the filling of this position the Opposition would have given away its self-righteous histrionics, but its members continue to rant and rave. It is humbug. Indeed, it is their behaviour which has led to the falling of standards within this chamber. During the short period that I have been a member of this House they have taken advantage of the very fair go they have been given not only by this side of the House but also by your predecessor,  Mr Speaker. 
It will be known that  Mr Berinson  was elected to this House in 1969. It was my privilege to be associated with him during his campaign preceding his election. Since then he has earned the respect of the people of Perth. He has, has always had and will continue to have the full confidence of the Labor movement in Western Australia. Since my election last May I have often turned to Joe Berinson for assistance in matters relating to my parliamentary duties and he has always given me the greatest assistance very cheerfully. I know that he is extremely highly regarded by honourable members from both sides of this House. For that reason, if for no other, he is well equipped to occupy any position in the Chair in this chamber. On those occasions when he has occupied the Chair it has been clear that he has done so with great distinction.  Mr Speaker,  during your term as  Chairman  of Committees you set a very high standard and I have no doubt that  Mr Berinson  will follow that high standard extremely well. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen statements which claim that a bridge across the wash away on the TransAustralian railway line at Zanthus had been constructed and completed by the Western Australian Government Railways before the Commonwealth Railways could get organised to complete the task? 
It is a pleasure for me to rise in support of this measure which has been introduced by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is something in which we know he has had a very deep interest for very many years. It should not be difficult in a society such as ours to mount a case for an institution such as the Trade Union Training Authority. Our community is somewhat obsessed with the belief that all education is good, that the more education we give our children the better citizens they will be, the longer and more intensive the courses for medical students the better doctors they will become, the more intensive and the longer the courses for lawyers the better legal practitioners they will turn out. However, it is not on that basis that I choose to support this measure. I think we are beginning to see the fallacy of that argument and to realise that so many doctors who are turned out into the community are quite unable to cope with socio-economic problems of the kind which confront so many people in our community, so many lawyers enter into the field of legal practice without having any real understanding of the sorts of problems that can confront lower income people when they are challenged by the law, which so many of them do not understand. 
This Bill seeks to introduce a new educational philosophy which is rapidly gaining support throughout the country. The Government is responding with this measure to the needs of the community. It is establishing an educational authority which will be responsive to those needs and therefore will be substantially controlled by the people whom it seeks to serve. I think that that is one of the pitfalls into which the Opposition has fallen, and I do not want to be excessive in my criticism of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  because I think that, by and large, his contribution to the debate was a well reasoned one. But it seems to me though that the Opposition may be primarily concerned to turn out good functionaries as trade union officers. It is interested primarily in people who can get up in court as good advocates. It is interested primarily in people who can successfully and efficiently run a union office. I do not want to under-estimate at all the need for that objective, but I think we have to see the role of this Authority as being much more broadly based. Trade unions are becoming increasingly involved in welfare services for their members, in credit unions and in travel schemes. They are becoming increasingly involved in areas which are non-traditional in an industrial sense. They are more and more trying to lobby for such things as child minding centres for women workers and so on. 
There is another area where this Authority can make a substantial contribution and that is in the field of raising the consciousness of the rank and file members of the unions. I think it is important for the future of the trade union movement that democracy within those organisations sould be extended as far as possible. If more and more trade union members were aware of what their unions are doing and what their elected officials are doing, I think the performance of the unions as a whole would improve substantially. It would also mean that there would be greater encouragement for potential union leaders and greater encouragement for those people who now play such an important role in an entirely voluntary capacity in union management. If that were the case, it might be argued that there is an ideological bias in the sort of program that is going to be developed. I think that is wrong, because the only assumption that is being made in this Bill is that there is a useful role and a very important role for trade unions and trade unionists to play in the community. It is not intendedindeed, it would be counter-productive- that this authority should become the focal point for militancy within the trade union movement. That is not to say that there may not be a role- in fact, I believe that there is a role- for the trade union movement to be involved in militant action, to be involved in challenging the sort of economic structure that exists in this and many other countries. But I think it is quite inappropriate to suggest that this Authority will become the focal point for that sort of action. 
The honourable member for Corangamite mentioned the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and the fact that they run their own education courses. To the best of my knowledge, those courses, at least in Western Australia, are financed by a levy struck on the membership. It is not unreasonable that, if the membership wants to strike a levy on themselves, they should not run precisely the sorts of courses that they want. To bring that sort of argument into a debate of this kind I think is to mislead people and perhaps to miss the point entirely. 
Without getting involved in an across-the-House debate, I think it is important that there should be a variety of roles for the unions to play in the field of education and training and I think it is important to ensure that the Authority takes as neutral a role as possible in the circumstances. I am not saying that it is only the Opposition which raises this criticism. Whilst the Opposition says that the Authority might be too ideological, there are some unions who might say that the authority is not nearly ideological enough. It seems to me that both sets of people miss the point entirely. If there is a role for that sort of activity, and I believe there is, then it is certainly not to use this Authority as a vehicle. 
The other question to which I wish to refer and to which the honourable member for Corangamite paid particular attention is the use of existing facilities to organise a trade union training program. If it can be argued that there is no ideological bias in the intentions of the Government or in the intentions of the proposed Authority, then presumably it can be argued that there is no reason why existing educational institutions should not be used. I wish to say that it would be excellent- in fact I would applaud it- if it were possible to use existing educational institutions. If educational institutions such as colleges of advanced education, universities and technical and further education colleges were concerned about this area then I would applaud it, but the lamentable fact is that they have shown an inability and a lack of action in this area. To try to superimpose a program of this kind on to existing institutions would lead to great difficulties. It is true that many of the existing educational institutions are just not geared for the sorts of courses that are intended to be run by this Authority, and must be run if the Authority is to succeed. We all know that universities and colleges of advanced education are primarily concerned with long courses, career oriented, mainly for full time young students. Most of the courses that will be run by this Authority will be quite the opposite. They will be mainly short intensive courses for adults who may or may not have been exposed to very much formal education. I might mention in passing that there is a suspicion about universities among some workers. They have had very little to do with universities and colleges of advanced education, and to expect those institutions to be the focal point for this sort of education I think would be a threat to the success of the whole scheme. 
The other aspect I wish to point out is that many of the staff at colleges of advanced education and universities have just not been exposed to the sorts of problems that will be the prime object of this Trade Union Training Authority. In general terms and in theoretical terms they may know about some of the questions involved in industrial relations, but they are quite wrongly placed in terms of trying to get down to the nitty-gritty of the day to day problems that face a trade union official or a rank and file member. This is not to say that there is no possibility for great and increasing co-operation between existing educational institutions and the proposed Authority. I think there can be a great transfer of resources, both physical and human. The trade union training scheme that is already operating draws very heavily on lecturers and tutors and so on from some of these educational institutions, and that is to be applauded and encouraged. As well, I think many of the courses that have been run have been conducted within existing facilities provided by colleges of advanced education and universities, and I hope that this will continue for as long as it is appropriate. I do not think that it is true to say, as the honourable member for Corangamite has suggested, that this institution will be quite separate- antiseptically separated- from the existing educational institutions. On the contrary, what is being attempted is to provide a focal point and an organisation through which there can be even greater co-operation. With the expanding facilities for further education one would hope that the opportunities available for co-operation would increase. 
I think that there is one direct way in which the Government can contribute to the existing educational institutions and that is by the provision of more money and more encouragement not only for the development of industrial relations courses in their own right but also to upgrade and expand the industrial relations components of related courses. There are very few if any courses in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education that lead specifically to a degree in industrial relations. That is a great weakness because on the other side of the coin there are very many courses which lead to a bachelor of commerce degree or a diploma in management studies. There is a need to redress the balance, as it were, even though that has been denied by the Opposition. Time is short, so I will not go on any further except to say that I have spoken as one who has participated in a fledgling trade union training scheme, both as a student and as a participating discussion leader, and I think that the program that has been developed in Western Australia, which began partly because of the encouragement given by the Tonkin Government when it was in office, has been an excellent program. I think that the progress that has been made in that State through the introduction of that scheme will lead everybody to believe that the expansion of that program to a national level and in a bigger way will only be of benefit to the whole community. 
I rise to support this measure enthusiastically. In doing so I want to draw particular attention to the problems that have emerged in Western Australia in relation to the implementation of the Australian Government's program in the field of early childhood services. It will be necessary for me to go into some detail in regard to the State Government's attitude to this measure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I hope that you will grant me that indulgence. Last week the Western Australian Government pushed through the State Parliament an amendment to the Pre-School Education Act. Whereas the superficial purpose of that amendment was 'to expand and improve the provision of educational services to young children in Western Australia', in order to find the real reason for that amendment one has to go back to an extravagant election promise made by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Sir Charles  Court, prior to the 1974 State election. In the Liberal Party's manifesto under the heading of 'Primary Schools' there was this passage: 
In primary schools we will - 
Amongst other things -  lower the admission age to the year in which the child turns five. 
Upon becoming the Government, that promise put the new State Government in a very difficult position: Was this year to be the first year of primary school education as it is for 5-year-olds in other States, or was it to be a year- perhaps the last year- of pre-school education? On the one hand it was not a full time course and it was not compulsory, but on the other hand the centres which were to be built to house these classes of 5- year-olds were to be physically associated with primary schools and were to be run by the Education Department. 
The first six of these hybrids, which the State Government decided to call pre-primary centres, were planned and financed by a special State Government grant in 1974. The Western Aus.tralian Government then proceeded to apply for capital assistance from the Australian Government, via the body which in September last year became the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission, to expand its program for pre-primary centres. In order to get some idea of where the State Government saw these centres fitting into the educational system, one has only to refer to an amendment to the Education Act passed in December last year by the State Government which extended the definition of a government school so that it would include any pre-primary centre. From that we can see quite clearly that the State Government saw those preprimary centres as being part of the primary sector of education. However, later in December last year the State Minister for Education announced that $871,000 had been made available by the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission to provide another 1 1 of these preprimary centres. 
The State Minister should not have been surprised when in March of this year he was subject to a certain amount of criticism. He was accused of dealing in an underhand manner in relation to his pre-school and primary school policies. It was also alleged by certain people who criticised him that he was reducing the funds available for other pre-school and child care services. Why he was suprised by this criticism is difficult to imagine becuase I am sure that to the casual observer it would have been clear that the State Government was trying to honour a clumsy election promise to lower the age of primary school admission, and to do this it was using Australian Government funds which in every other State were being used for the legitimate purpose of expanding pre-school and child care services. Indeed, it was intended that these funds should be provided for that purpose in Western Australia as well 
To the extent that a large program of construction of pre-primary centres would limit the possibility for the expenditure on other child care services, the criticism of the Western Australian Minister for Educaton was quite valid. Indeed, those people who criticised him for underhand dealings were soon to have their worst fears realised because the amendments to which I referred at the beginning of my speech provided the capacity for the Western Australian Government to continue, or at least to attempt to continue, to gain and obtain funds from the Federal Government under false pretences. Very simply, the amendments provided for a reconstituted Pre-School Board of Western Australia and empowered it to provide both educational and child care faculties for children who were over 2 years of age and who had not yet turned five. This allowed the Board legitimately to obtain funds from the Children's Commission for the provision of early childhood services for children under 5, which has been the stated aim of the Special Minister of State. Funds for both capital and recurrent expenditure would have been available 
But the amendments went on to empower the Western Australia Minister for Education to direct that any facility so provided, ostensibly for children under 5, could be handed over to the Education Department. The only reason such a facility would be handed over to the Education Department would be to provide a pre-primary centre for children of 5 years of age for the year before they attend primary school proper, that is, in the year in which they turn six. This is a most blatant attempt to fudge the system and to muddy the waters in order that the Western Australian Government can obtain money for one purpose, and then effectively confiscate the facilities provided in order to salvage a confused preelection promise that it made last year. 
I should say that the reason this situation has come about is that even though the Australian Government, through the Interim Committee for a Children's Commission did fund the preprimary centres last year the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  on a recent visit to Western Australia, indicated quite clearly that in future the Children's Commission would not fund the pre-primary program of the Western Australian Government. I believe that this is a quite proper action on the part of the Minister for the following reasons: Firstly, in all other States the accommodation of 5-year olds is a matter for the primary education sector and is subject, in relation to Federal assistance, to grants from the Schools Commission. Secondly, if the Australian Government commits itself to funding a preprimary program it will leave itself very little opportunity for expanding child care and other services which it intends to provide throughout the country. I am not interested to condemn out of hand the pre-primary program of the Western Australian Government. But I think that the realisation has to be arrived at by the State Government that the program must be funded in the proper way. If the centres are, as the State Government clearly admits, part of the primary school sector, they ought to be funded as part of that sector. The State Government should not try to fudge the issue by trying to gain capital assistance from the Interim Committee and then confiscate those facilities for uses other than those for which the initial grants were made. 
It is true that the people of Western Australia are in great need of all the other sorts of services which it is intended will be provided by the Children's Commission. I refer to the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State in which he indicated that some of the other services which would be provided would include full day care, family day care, pre-school education of course, emergency care, occasional care, before and after school and vacation care, play groups and other child care activities in accordance with demand. I think that in saying this we all have to recognise that the needs of the Australian people, including the Western Australian people, are extremely great. The statistics that are uncovered and reported in the report of the Social Welfare Commission for 1972-73 are worth considering. They reveal that 365 000 children under the age of 6 years were the children of working mothers. The report went on to state that 437 000 people who were responsible for the care of children between 4 years of age and 1 1 years of age made no arrangements for the care of those children after school hours. I do not think that we can ignore the needs which clearly exist for the provision of the sorts of services which this Government certainly wants to provide. So in relation to that I ask the Minister to look very carefully at the arrangements that the Western Australian State Government is trying to bring about which would allow it to swindle Western Australians and provide only for this hybrid pre-primary program instead of sharing in the rest of the opportunities which are available under this excellent program. 
-Will the Prime Minster indicate the provisions of section 57 of the Constitution relating to the rejection of legislation passed in this House? 
Has the Minister for Minerals and Energy examined the Mining Bill currently before the Parliament of Western Australia? Has he examined the operation of clause 1 19 of that Bill in relation to the operation of bodies such as the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and general public participation in the exploitation of the mineral wealth of Western Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Did he see an article in the  West Australian  newspaper this morning which suggested that the Government was rocked by the July deficit? Is there any substance in the suggestion? If not, in the interests of raising the standard of economic debate in Australia will the Treasurer arrange for some special instruction to be made available for the journalist on the subject of the interpretation of national accounts? 
Has the Minister for Education seen a reported statement by the Western Australian Minister for Education which claims that education funds from the Australian Government for recurrent expenditure have been cut by half? Is this statement true? 
-This Budget debate has been remarkable not for its contribution to the solution to the problems facing the economy but rather for the way in which it has thrown into sharp relief the alternative approaches to the problems facing a modern, affluent, industrial society such as Australia. Neither the Budget nor the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  which is laughingly referred to as the alternative Budget, hold the solution to Australia's economic malaise. Indeed the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  did not paint his Budget as being a cure-all. What he said was that the solutions lie in the hands of those who run private industry. All the Government can do is try to create a situation which will allow private industry to expand and to invest if it has the will to do so. If that will does not exist, then all the incentives and all the subsidies in the world will not make that happen. 
The Treasurer recognised this and very sensibly tried to create a balance such that the demand on resources and interest rates would be such that a willing investor would not be thwarted, and at the same time he avoided the temptation to go too far so as to reduce further total demand which would inevitably lead to further employment. The Treasurer believes that there are sufficient indications of at least an end to the recession if not the beginnings of an upswing to validate this approach. In these circumstances it would have been easy to over-react, because the key to the problem does not lie in the hands of the Government. The incentive that the Government has provided by way of a reduction in company tax should provide a significant and immediate boost to private investment. The Treasurer is a realist. He knows he cannot work miracles and indeed realises that a too rapid recovery would cause more problems than it would solve. 
The Leader of the Opposition for his part believes he has all the answers. In his speech he outlined some extra measures designed to stimulate the private sector. However the greatest weaknesses of his suggestions were that they were not sufficiently quick-acting and when taken together with his other proposals would have coincided with further inflationary pressures, with the consequence that interest rates would probably have risen, and this would have negated any possible incentive that might have been created for investment. The Treasurer and the Leader of the Opposition are on common ground in agreeing that the key to the solution of the problem lies in the performance of the private sector. The Treasurer however understands the limitations of Government action in this area; the Leader of the Opposition does not. 
However I do not want to indulge in hairsplitting and prophecy in relation to the likely implications for economic activity of the alternative prescriptions. I draw attention to the gaping chasm which is developing between the Australian Labor Party on the one hand and the Liberal and National Country Party on the other hand in relation to the approach to the social problems of this country. My colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  drew attention in an earlier speech tonight to some of these questions, and in my view his observations and forebodings focused directly on the crucial choices which face the Australian electorate. 
The Leader of the Opposition has an obsession for promoting the output and production of goods and services, and seems to care little about the great problems of distribution. All over the world it is the problems of distribution which are most exercising the minds of governments in economies similar to ours. He believes that if governments provide the right climate for business to thrive then the rest of the problems will take care of themselves. Further he believes that the right climate is created when governments interfere as little as possible in the operation of the free market place, except of course when it moves in to benefit the owners and users of capital. 
He in some ways subscribes to the views of Milton Friedman, the noted or notorious American economist, but he is not courageous enough to go the whole way. For instance, Friedman is so committed to the magic of the market place that he does not support subsidies in the main, but on the other hand he does support the vigorous outlawing of restrictive trade practices, to name just 2 questions on which the Opposition demonstrates a quaint ambivalence. It does support a wide array of subsidies and incentives which directly interfere with the market place in terms of affecting the allocation of resources which would occur if those incentives and subsidies did not exist. On the other hand, in its attempts to introduce restrictive trade practices legislation it always buckled at the knees when it came to making the hard decisions about making the market place work, about outlawing monopoly practice. Of course, trade practices legislation is designed to create a free market place situation where the consumer does have some rights, where the consumer is presented with some choice, where competition does work or at least is encouraged to work so as to provide some of the beneficial aspects of a competitive system. 
In the sterile abstraction of an economics text book some of the elements of this approach have some attraction, but in the real world they have very little. Where, for instance, is the market place which requires the private sector to value and care for the environment? Where is the market place which requires concern for people in need? Of course no such market place exists. Only in this place can those sorts of decisions be made. In this Parliament and in the practice of politics is where we all have to stand up and demonstrate our support and concern for people in need and a concern for the environment. But the Leader of the Opposition believes that for governments to take any of this action is not only against the interests of the country as a whole but against the interests of the people whom that government action is supposed to support. 
It is those people who are least able to cope with the competitiveness and the aggressiveness of our kind of system which a government has an obligation and a duty to support. Not everybody can cope with the sorts of economic and social pressures which are the hallmark of a mixed economy. In those circumstances it is the duty of a government to move in and support those people. The fact is that today there are very few people who can be entirely self supporting and entirely self sufficient, and for a large section of the community that sort of idea is simply not an option and not likely to be one in the foreseeable future. Most people rely on governments to provide an increasing range of services and to support income for those people at the lowest level. What we should be discussing at this time is not whether governments should be providing services such as education, public transport and so on and still be providing income security but rather the nature of that commitment. 
The recent report of the Henderson inquiry points to 3 important principles which should guide the Australian approach to welfare. The first principle is to provide security and wellbeing for all citizens and to acknowledge the importance of the independence and dignity of those people. The second principle is to encourage personal development and individual participation in the community. The third principle is to acknowledge that the principle of need ought to be paramount in any of these decisions. The first two of these principles assume that the Government should not simply provide support at a minimal level and in a grudging way but rather it should provide an adequate support as of right, and the level should be such that the recipients do not merely live from hand to mouth but rather are able to live with some dignity and are able to participate normally in the community. The third principle indicates that when resources are limited, and they always will be in the foreseeable future, then priority should be given to those in greatest need. 
The greatest need at the moment as revealed by the Henderson inquiry is the 20 per cent of the population who live on incomes below a very austere poverty line. The solution to that problem requires a substantial program which will extend over at least the next 10 years. The program over the next 10 years is going to require a fairly substantial redistribution of income from those who are better off to those who live below the poverty line. That requires that some people will have to make sacrifices. It is important that people should recognise that those sacrifices are necessary if we are going to cope with the great problems of poverty. We cannot simply say, as the Leader of the Opposition says, that the most important thing should be for people to be able to spend their own income. That would mean we support an increasing reduction in taxation. We are saying that there has to be an increasing commitment to the problems of these people who live below the poverty line. That commitment will require greater taxation and will require greater sacrifice from those who can afford to make it. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night, when the debate on the Budget was interrupted, I was drawing attention to the great threat which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  represented to Australia's social security system and in fact to the whole range of services which governments normally provide. I was pointing out that it was quite absurd for the Leader of the Opposition to say that it should be the prime objective of governments to maximise people's disposable income simply by reducing the incidence of taxation. Of course it is necessary to ensure that taxpayers are not forced to pay greater proportions of their income in tax simply as a result of rising money incomes which may or may not be accompanied by rising real incomes. Indeed, the new tax scales go a great way towards achieving that goal. This has been done by reducing the number of steps in the progressive rise in marginal rates with the result that the bulk of wage and salary earners will, despite rising money incomes, remain in the same tax bracket with a constant marginal rate. That is not to say that average tax rates will not increase- of course they will- but the proportion of any extra dollars earned which will be paid in tax will remain constant. That in itself is a great improvement. 
The Leader of the Opposition, however, goes much further and endorses the concept of total taxation indexation. There are some very good reasons for supporting taxation indexation. The main reason is to avoid the automatic increases in taxation which occur in times of inflation without governments taking any action to adjust the tax scales. That is to say, in times of inflation, the revenue collected by governments will increase without governments taking any action. I subscribe to the view that governments ought to have to support increases in revenue when they are necessary and that governments simply should not rely on the invisible action of the progressive tax scales to provide that extra revenue. As well, taxation indexation is a great benefit in that it attempts to maintain the real after-tax earnings of wage and salary earners. This is not the motivation of the Leader of the Opposition for supporting taxation indexation. He specifically said in his speech that tax indexation:  . . . would prevent future governments from using the silent tax of inflation to transfer resources from individuals to the government. 
In other words, he is not supporting taxation indexation because it maintains after tax real earnings or because it removes the disincentive to earn more but simply because he is opposed to Government spending, particularly increased Government spending. In the debate which has raged around this Budget there has been a general condemnation by most people of the concept of public spending and it has usually been in the context of the size of the deficit. It is important to point out, however, that there is nothing wrong in the right circumstances with deficit financing and simply to condemn deficit financing out of hand is quite incorrect and can lead to great problems in the economy. As well, there is nothing wrong with public spending if governments are prepared to raise the necessary revenue. There are no inflationary consequences necessarily flowing from a government spending money which it collects from taxpayers. The only time when it can be disadvantageous to the economy is when it causes a misallocation of resources or draws on resources to a greater extent than they exist in the economy. 
So one needs to stress at a time when the Government is conscious of the necessity to draw back on public expenditure and not to expand the deficit, that there is no condemnation so far as the Government is concerned in respect of the general question of deficit financing or the general question of public expenditure. However, the Leader of the Opposition is opposed to public expenditure and is opposed to Government intervention in the provision of welfare services. So here we have the real substance of the man who dresses up his opposition to public expenditure by saying that he is in favour of freedom of choice and that the provision of services by a government is in some way inimical to freedom of choice. I have said already that a substantial proportion of the population, probably 20 per cent, have no choice at all due to the inadequate incomes on which they live and also to the inadequacy of the services provided.  (Quorum formed).  The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  has just made one of his puerile contributions. 
Here we see the real substance of the Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition itself. The Leader dresses up his opposition to public expenditure by saying that in some way it impinges on freedom of choice. In fact, a very significant proportion of the population has no choice at all. The only real freedom of choice those people have or which the Leader of the Opposition would preserve for them is the freedom to starve and the freedom to remain poor. Does anyone really question that this wealthy country can afford to eliminate poverty even though the Leader of the Opposition is effectively saying that we should not? He says that we should not increase public expenditure. Since no one but governments can eliminate poverty, he is effectively saying that we should not be interested in the plight of the needy, we should not eliminate poverty in Australia 
I understand why the Leader of the Opposition and many of his colleagues would have no idea at aU of the conditions of the urban poor. That is apparent from the lack of concern they show for them. However, they do not even show concern for the rural poor, who are among the people they are supposed to represent. How often have we heard National Country Party members expressing concern about the plight of the rural poor? AU they talk about here are superphosphate bounties, tax incentives and subsidies for farmers. Everybody knows that those sorts of subsidies provide no support for the poor in rural areas ana no support for small farmers who. experience a great deal of poverty, as was revealed by the poverty inquiry. If the Country Party was really concerned about the needs of the rural poor, whether they be black or white, it would be concerned to spend the $30m, which they would like to see spent on the superphosphate bounty, in supporting the needs of the poor which exist within their own electorates. If that is the way they demonstrate their concern for the poor in their own electorates I shudder to think of the implications to the urban poor if they were ever to come to office again. Australia can afford to be more generous with its needy and it has an obligation to be more generous. All political parties, instead of arguing for a return to this selfish acquisitiveness and eUtist values of the Leader of the Opposition, ought to be asking instead for an increased commitment to the poor in Australia and an increased commitment to the onslaught against poverty. 
I hear the honourable member for Wakefield giggling again. My time has run out. AU I can do is urge the House to support the Budget. 
-The speeches of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  are always remarkable. They are usually remarkable for their histrionics and distortions. This one was remarkable, for it consisted of nothing but sheer nonsense. Last night and again tonight the Opposition has come in here and abused the Government for not being interested in exports. Last night the accusation was in relation to the export levy which has been imposed on coal producers in an attempt to have the community share in the windfall gains that coal exporters have received in the last couple of years, through no effort on their part but simply as a result of an increase in the world price for coal. So on the one hand the Opposition criticises the Government for not being interested in exports by distorting our motives for introducing an export levy. Then when the Government tries to introduce something which will significantly assist exporters in Australia it is lampooned again and accused of trying to set up some sort of socialist octopus. The Leader of the National Country Party entirely misses the point. He just concentrates on his ideological obsessions about the setting of up more bureaucracies. It might be worth reminding him that many statutory bodies already exist, as he in fact admitted in his speech. They include the Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Wool Corporation, the Australian Meat Board, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation and so on. How many times have the Opposition Parties, either in government or in Oppostion opposed the establishment of statutory bodies? Why are those bodies not branded socialist octopii? Are they wasteful bureaucracies? Of course they are not, because they play a very important role in the export of Australian products and that is precisely what this new corporation will do when it is established. 
It might be suggested that this is an odd time for us to be particularly concerned about expanding Australian exports. It is true that at the moment Australia is in a very healthy position as far as its trade balance is concerned, but that is not to say that we do not suffer from very substantial problems from time to time. There are sectoral problems and we only have to look at the problem the beef industry is facing at the moment to realise that problems do exist from commodity to commodity, from time to time. It is probably worth noting as I recall the plight of the beef industry that the Leader of the National Country Party himself a couple of years ago was encouraging farmers to diversify into beef, to expand beef production so that apparently we could increase the glut on the world markets and so reduce beef producers to the parlous state in which they now find themselves. Nobody can pretend that in Australia there are no problems as far as exports are concerned. We must pay serious attention to the sorts of problems which we do experience. 
Another such problem which we encounter is that we tend to concentrate our markets in particular areas. The major proportion of our export trade goes to Japan, the European Economic Community and the United States of America. It is detrimental on some occasions not to diversify in order to rely on the buoyancy of other countries rather than just rely on traditional markets. As well it is important to realise the role that the centrally planned economies and the Middle East countries play as far as Australia's trade is concerned. It is estimated that in 1973-74 the total trade of the centrally planned economies was something like $ 100,000m and that Australia shared in only $525m or one-half of 1 per cent of that trade. Nobody can imagine that that is a healthy position for a country which prides itself as a major exporter and which in fact is amongst the world's 12 trading nations. 
It is also important to recognise that as far as the centrally planned economies and the Middle East countries are concerned, they deal almost exclusively on a government to government basis. So it is not just simply a matter of encouraging and giving incentives to private traders; rather it is a question of providing a vehicle by which the goods which we produce in Australia can be purchased by the centrally planned economies. It is not simply a question of encouraging private people to do it. It is a question of providing a government agency which is the only sort of authority, the only sort of trading arrangement with which many of these centrally planned economies and Middle East countries will deal. 
Those people who are concerned about our exports of primary produce would do well to look at the role that the centrally planned economies and the Middle East countries play in terms of the proportion of our primary products which they in fact take. Our trade with them may not be very big in overall terms but as far as specific commodities are concerned they are very important. For instance, they account for 90 per cent of our trade in live sheep, 1 1 per cent of our trade in mutton and lamb, 1 1 per cent of our butter, 22 per cent of our cheese, 40 per cent of our wheat, 10 per cent of our sorghum, 13 per cent of our hides and skins and 23 per cent of our oil seeds and nuts. Does anybody suggest for one moment that we can do without those sorts of markets? Does anybody suggest that we can do with a cut of 90 per cent in the export of live sheep? The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  should realise that many of the live sheep that are exported to the Middle East and to the centrally planned economies come not only from his electorate but also from Canning, another Liberal-held electorate in Western Australia. He should be particularly concerned about the future of that trade. 
It may be true that there are already some statutory bodies which can operate on a government to government basis or at least on a quasi government to government basis. The fact is that only the Australian Wheat Board, amongst all our statutory marketing corporations, is able to follow negotiations through to finality. Only the Wheat Board is able finally to negotiate contracts, to sign contracts and to undertake to fill those contracts. The Australian Meat Board plays a co-ordinating role; it is up to the Meat Board to obtain the co-operation of the industry in Australia, and that is not always possible. In any event, even if the Overseas Trading Corporation were interested in assisting those boards, it could do so only with the specific consent of the boards. A licence from the Meat Board would be required for the Corporation to negotiate a meat deal with any other country. As has been indicated, the Meat Board is controlled substantially by producers and it would not have to give a licence to the Corporation if it did not want to and if it did not think it was in its interests. But how ridiculous that is. If it was in the interests -of the Meat Board, why would it not give a licence? Why should the Meat Board be prevented from having an alternative outlet, an alternative negotiating body which could bring an overseas deal to finality? 
The other point which ought to be borne in mind is that, despite the fact that the centrally planned economies in the Middle East play such an important role in providing markets for our primary products, we need not think that we have it all our own way. In the very recent past the European Economic Community- a bloc of countries that notably tends not to deal on a government to government basis- signed a deal with Egypt for $200m worth of agricultural products over 3 years, namely, one million tons of wheat in 1975-76, 75 000 tons of sugar each year for 3 years, 11 000 tons of beef in 1975-76 and 40 000 tons of butter, milk powder and cheese over 2 years. So, it is not a question of Australia sitting back and thinking that we have these markets sewn up. The countries which are prepared to negotiate on a government to government basis will cut the ground from under our feet. Unless the members of the Opposition, who are supposed to represent the producers of these agricultural commodities, realise that, the producers will have colossal surpluses on their hands, just as they have a surplus of beef on their hands at present. 
It has been indicated that the contract signed between the EEC and Egypt may be the beginning of a new approach by the EEC. There are indications already that similar contracts are being studied between the EEC and countries such as Algeria, Iran and Norway. As well as that, there are other countries which traditionally do not deal on a government to government basis but which also are moving towards that position. The United States and Japanese Governments have entered into a 3-year agreement for the supply of 42 million tons of feed grain, soya beans and wheat. So, it is not a question of sitting back and thinking that just because we have a large proportion of our products sold at the moment we will not face very severe competition from people from whom we have not suffered this sort of competition in the past. 
As a further indication of the sort of penetration which is being made by our competitors in these markets, it is worth while to look at some other statistics. In 1963 Australia provided 5 per cent of the imports of the centrally planned economies and in 1973 that figure had been halved to 2.4 per cent. In 1963 Australian products represented 10 per cent of the imports of centrally planned economies but in 1973 this figure had fallen to less than 6 per cent. 
What has been happening with our competitors in the meantime? Japan's market penetration has doubled. Between 1963 and 1973 the European Economic Community increased its share of the markets of centrally planned economies from 30 per cent to over 40 per cent while the United States of America increased its share from 3.5 per cent to 1 1.4 per cent. If one turns the figures around and looks at the percentage of exports taken by these markets one gets a similar effect. While our importance to these countries is declining the importance of the countries with whom we compete is expanding. So it is vital to realise that it is not just a question of sitting down, encouraging, cooing and billing to our private traders and thinking they can do the job on their own; it is a matter of the Government getting out and talking to these people in the only way in which they will talk. 
The derogatory reference by the Leader of the National Country Party to the centrally planned economies as the 'Minister's commie mates' will not do us any good at all. Does he forget that they take 90 per cent of our live sheep? Does he forget that they take 40 per cent of our wheat? Are they still our commie mates when they buy wheat from his Party's supporters? Is he prepared to call them 'commie mates' across the trade negotiating table? Of course he is not, and he should not be so cowardly and two faced as to do it here. It is not simply a question of our trying to shore up markets for our agricultural products. It is a matter of trying to diversify and expand our export of manufactured products. It is true that in the Middle East countries there is a vast area ready to be opened up, a vast market for manufactured products which Australia can supply. If we do not realise that the way to get into that market is via government agencies we will miss the bus entirely. 
The same can be said of the centrally planned economies. Those people who are concerned about employment ought to realise that if Australia is to be able to produce manufactured products cheaply enough for us to compete with other countries it has to be on a sufficiently large scale, and the only way in which we will be able to manufacture products on a large scale is if we can find markets for them. We ought to realise that, unless we establish a government agency and begin to promote our manufactured products in these countries, other countries which are not dissimilar to Australia will get in first. Countries such as those in the European Economic Community, and the United States of America, will move in and make trading arrangements because they are prepared to negotiate on a government to government or quasigovernment to government basis and they will take those markets from us. 
It is very amusing to hear the Leader of the National Country Party talking about this socialist octopus. I refer to the 1970 report of the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association which said: 
HEMA  applauds the decision by the Government to establish an Overseas Trading Corporation on the understanding that its main thrust will be towards the development of export business with countries having centralised economies and the Middle East Sheikdoms all of which have expressed a clear desire to trade with other countries on a government to government basis. Beyond those countries, the corporation will also seek to develop business in countries where, up to the present, there has been little or no penetration by Australian exporting companies. 
In principle the proposal does not differ widely from similar institutions in other countries, for example the American  EXIM  Bank and M.I.T.I. in Japan. 
The Corporation could have special significance for the heavy engineering industry by providing a vehicle for the formation of consortia of engineering companies to enable them to tender, using the corporation as the prime contractor, on a group basis instead of individually as heretofore. By combining the facilities of EPIC, the Export Bank and the Overseas Trading Corporation it should be possible for heavy engineering companies to enter markets which have been neglected in the past because of the lack of such facilities. 
The Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association is not the only organisation which has applauded the proposal to set up an overseas trading corporation. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  has had negotiations with all the States on this matter. All the States, including Queensland, have supported the proposal to set up an overseas trading corporation to facilitate our export trade with the centrally planned economies and the Middle East. The States are aware of the problems. The States are aware of the benefits that can flow from this corporation. It is only a shame that the Opposition Parties in this place are not similarly enlightened. The reason that the States and the representatives of private industry are not as scared, as frightened, as terrified as the Leader of the National Country Party is that they know there are adequate safeguards which will be further strengthened by amendments which the Minister will introduce. They realise that these safeguards are adequate to preserve the position of existing traders and will not allow the Overseas Trading Corporation to move in compulsorily on those markets which are already adequately serviced. For those people who doubt this, I simply refer them to clause 10 of the Bill which goes into this matter in some detail. 
One of the other arguments which the Leader of the National Country Party put forward was that it was quite easy for the Department of Overseas Trade to provide exactly the same sort of function as is intended to be provided by the Overseas Trading Corporation. As a former Minister for Trade and Industry the Leader of the National Country Parry ought to know better; he ought to realise that the Department of Overseas Trade- the Department which succeeded his own old department- is unable to enter into trading operations in the sort of detail and with the sort of flexibility that a statutory corporation could. The Corporation would deal with Australian exporters on a commission basis, on a commercial basis. It is impossible for the Department to undertake that sort of activity. It has to be completely even-handed as far as Australian exporters are concerned in the provision of market intelligence and in terms of facilitating contacts between Australian exporters and overseas buyers. That is not to belittle the role that the Department of Overseas Trade plays; it plays a very important role. This year, something like $90m will be spent by this Government on the Department of Overseas Trade. This amount will include such incentives as the export market development grants and other such services as the Trade Commissioner Service. 
All of these activities by the Department are there to help the private trader, the private exporter. The object of the Overseas Trading Corporation is simply to provide another vehicle whereby those people whose businesses are either too small or who are too inexperienced to get involved in exports and in overseas trade will be afforded the opportunity to do so. It is important to remind those people who have become the latter day champions of small business that it will be mainly small businesses that will benefit from this Corporation. 
-There is no question that this Government's minerals and energy policy has been an area of great contention. It has been a controversial subject since this Government came to power. I do not think that anybody should deny that. I would not deny that and I am sure the Minister would not deny that. The reason for this is that important issues are at stake when one is trying to resolve the important questions that surround this field. For his part, the Minister has been the prime mover in turning round the POliCy which existed for far too long in Australia. The Minister has shown some novel concerns for the exploitation of minerals and energy. He has shown a concern for local ownership. He has shown a concern for the satisfaction of local needs. 
We hear a voice from the past from an honourable member who is about to retire from this Parliament, and a good job too. The Minister is concerned about the satisfaction of local needs. He is concerned about the rational use of our resources, especially some of the most valuable resources in the world todaythe energy resources. He is also concerned to protect Australia from the exploitation of foreign powers. That, in the field of energy resources exploitation, is extremely important as it probably holds the key to the progress of the world. The Minister also shows a concern, which is unique in this hurley burley of mining and so on, for the interests of Aboriginal land rights. He shows concern also for the environment. It is because he shows these new concerns in an atmosphere in which people were unused to having concerns for these matters that he has run into so much opposition. He also ran into opposition because he put his finger on the jackpot, on the area of wealth in Australia which was being mindlessly exploited largely by interests foreign to this country. That is why there is so much squealing- because he has really identified an area of importance to Australia and he has decided to do something about it in Australia 's interests. 
For its part the Opposition stands for the untrammelled interests of private operators, and largely foreign private operators, which are against the interests of Australia and Australians The odd thing is that the Opposition falls happily into liaison with the Liberal State governments of Australia. They stand cheek together by jowlthe Liberal State governments and the Liberal Opposition in this Parliament- to protect the interests of foreign powers, of foreign corporations and to limit the interests of Australians and Australia. That is the real kernel of the battle that has been going on in the High Court of Australia; that is, the States have been standing up not for the interests of Australia or of the people of their States but for the interests of those people who currently hold the wealth in minerals and energy resources and they clearly are not the Australian people. 
Nothing demonstrates this more clearly than the attitudes of the Opposition and the State governments to the policy on the export of natural gas from the North-West Shelf. Several spokesmen from the Opposition and from the Liberal State governments have been advocating, in line with the Woodside-Burmah consortium, the export of natural gas. On 7 February this year the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  Mr Anthony,  speaking as the Opposition spokesman in this area said:  ... I believe there should be controlled export of natural gas at least in the initial stages. 
On 19 June this year the honourable member for Stirling,  Mr Viner,  was reported in the  WestAustralian  as saying: 
There is enough now for the Pilbara, Penh and export. 
Of course Woodside-Burmah is interested in export because the prices which prevail on the world market are higher than the prices which it would receive for the natural gas in Australia That is because the Minister is concerned to see that the people of Australia are not exploited in terms of the development of the resources which they fundamentally own. 
The Opposition and the Liberal State governments are ganging up together with WoodsideBurmah against the interests of Australia. The High Court challenge is essentially preventing the Australian Government from getting on with the job. This frustration has been brought about by the tactics of the States, particularly led and cajoled by the Liberal States. It is not only that the States have been prepared to go to the High Court and delay the development of the Northwest Shelf. The Western Australian Government has also been prepared to abrogate the law and its responsibilities in other ways. The Liberal State Government in Western Australia has been prepared to tear up the 1967 Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. It has been prepared to reissue licences to the Woodside-Burmah consortium and to other interests in Western Australia operating off the North- West Shelf despite the fact that that Act requires that there should be co-operation and consultation between the State and Federal governments. The Western Aus.tralian Government has illegally, and immorally in my view, recently extended licences for a period of up to 5 years. 
That is not the only way in which it is prepared to tear up agreements and Acts of Parliament On 19 June the Premier of Western Australia was reported to have said that he would unilaterally go ahead with the operations on the North- West Shelf and that he would negotiate directly with the Woodside-Burmah consortium to get the project moving. So off he flew to London to talk to the principals of that consortium. He quickly came home with his tail between his legs because he found when he got there that the Woodside-Burmah people were realists. He discovered that the Woodside- Burmah consortium was ready to go ahead with the Australian Government and was quite happy to co-operate with the Australian Government. He realised that the Woodside-Burmah consortium recognised the reality that the Australian Government would be awarded the case in the High Court and would be granted sovereignty over the submerged lands. The consortium also realised that it was in the interests of the Burmah oil company, which has interests in more than one State, to deal with one national government and not a hotchpotch of various State governments. The Premier came sulking back into Western Australia and completely changed his tune. Instead of bravely going it alone he said in a whimper that he hoped the Australian Government would come to the Party and would cooperate with the Woodside-Burmah consortium. That is exactly what the Minister has been doing and what he wanted to do. That is what the Minister was frustrated in bringing about because of the actions of the Opposition and of the Liberal State governments. 
The Western Australian Government is not prepared just to tear up existing laws; it is prepared to re-write laws in a way which completely prevents the rational and sensible exploitation of our mineral resources. In the proposed Mining Act, which is now before the Western Australian Parliament, is a provision which will allow the Western Australian Government to revoke the licences of licence holders who enter into agreements with foreign corporations or foreign governments and allow those foreign corporations or governments to take up more than 15 per cent of the voting capital of the company holding the licence. What is the reason behind all this? In some circumstances one would think such a provision unexceptional. But the proposed Act goes further and says, in section 119, that the Australian Government is a foreign power. So the real reason behind this provision in the Bill is to prevent companies and corporations from entering into any arrangement with the Australian Government for fear that they might have their licences revoked. This is a simple extension of the threats which the Premier made to private companies on 18 November 1974 when he said that if any company co-operated with or sought the assistance of the Australian Government it would put in jeopardy the continuation of its licence. 
If one wants an example of the way in which a stupid government can frustrate development one has only to look at the example of Endeavour Oil NL which in the light of this hokey pokey and dithering around and threat and counter threat by the State Government abandoned its project. This is the great record of the Western Australian State Government which is supposed to stand up for the interests of development. But in fact it works against the interests of Australians 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Can the Treasurer say whether the Government has considered alternatives to the present system of tax reimbursement to the States? What would be the effect on the revenue of a small State such as Western Australia of any change, and what administrative steps would be necessary? 
-In joining this debate on the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade I want to talk a little about a number of aspects. It has been taken for granted for a long time in Australia that the more trade we have the better off Australia will be. However, I think it is important for us to recognise the important consequences that flow from our trade performance- our export performance- in relation to the performance of our internal economy. For instance, if the receipts from exports are excessively high in one year this can have serious implications in that it can increase substantially local demand and be a spur to inflation, as occurred during 1972 and 1973. It was a substantial cause of the inflationary problems that we have now. Inflation can also be exacerbated by the inflow of foreign capital and in large measure the inflow of foreign capital is substantially affected by our export returns. In other words, most overseas investment occurs in industries which are related to overseas markets and therefore if we allow unrestricted inflow of capital to take advantage of our good performance in those areas it can have serious effects on the inflationary situation in the domestic economy. 
As well as that we have to take account of the external situation of our local manufacturing industry and we cannot be led into the position of restricting imports to the extent where local manufacturing industry becomes inefficient or insufficiently competitive. So in these circumstances governments have a difficult task trying to develop and maintain sound policies in relation to our local industry in the light of changing patterns of trade and the more rapidly changing exchange rates. For this reason we cannot afford to go overboard too much in responding to the ups and downs of our overseas trade performance because we have to keep an eye on the implications that our actions in that field have on our local manufacturing industry which relies substantially on the local market and plays a most important role in providing jobs for Australian workers. While it would be easy for some people to suggest that we ought to devalue the currency in order to assist some of our ailing primary exporting industries, this would have very serious implications to our local manufacturing industry. 
So we cannot find any magic solution to the problems which some of our export industries get into from time to time, and I do not think that we should resort to the sort of hysterical responses that the leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  all too often indulges in. Most recently we have his notable prediction reported in 
Monday's  West Australian  that the beef industry could turn more quickly than most people suppose. He said that he retained complete confidence in the beef industry's long term future. We have only to go back a little while to evaluate his ability to make predictions about the beef industry. It was only in August 1973 that the Country Party in a submission to a parliamentary committee said: 
The Country Party believes that government policy inasmuch as it relates to the beef industry should be directed to: 
The encouragement of production. 
It went on to say: 
If, as appears likely, a world beef shortage is developing, then Australia must respond in the most effective manner possible to meet this situation. 
In August 1973 the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia- I think he was Leader of the Australian Country Party in those days but he is now Leader of the National Country Party of Australia- said: 
As incomes rise demand for meat will rise. In fact, I think demand will rise so fast that well be flat out trying to keep up with it. The thing that will most help us to meet the demand will be encouragement of higher production- and if people will restrain themselves from doing silly things about meat prices, production will rise quickly. 
So there are just a few of the predictions of the right honourable gentleman about the beef industry. Since the time of those predictions beef prices have more than halved and our overseas exports of beef have slumped severely. So I do not think we can resort at these times to heroic and hysterical responses to the ups and downs which occur in some of our export markets. We have to live with the fact that many of our export industries do suffer from fluctuations. What we must try to do is to expand and strengthen the base of our export activities and provide procedures which will ensure a constant and upward growing development in our export activities. 
In that regard I think the Government has an excellent record in instituting new procedures and new incentives in relation to the development of export industries. This year will be the first full year, in budgetary terms anyway, of the operation of the new export market development grants which, as most honourable members would know, replace the previous market development allowance and export incentive grants. This new scheme has very many benefits over the old arrangements which were linked substantially to rebates of income tax and rebates of payroll tax. Unfortunately that has had the consequence of excluding many small exporting firms from benefiting from the schemes and has also had the effect of excluding statutory marketing authorities and cooperatives from benefiting from those schemes because their income tax or payroll tax payments were either nil or negligible. So any rebates on the basis of those taxes were of very little consequence to those exporting bodies at all. 
This year $27.5m will be spent on the scheme. It permits grants to be given to all exporters, with particular encouragement to small and medium sized firms, to exporters opening up new markets, and to firms new to exporting. This change in emphasis will enable the benefits to be spread with maximum possible effect amongst all Australian exporters. I think that this change which has occurred in the last year is an important one. As well as that the Government has expanded the operations of the old Export Payments Insurance Corporation and reconstituted that Corporation as the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. This new Corporation will have amongst its functions the role of an export bank, as well as continuing the range of insurance and guaranteed facilities previously available to exporters under the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. This new Corporation came into effect early this year. The new arrangements will overcome some of the serious deficiencies and the Budget commitment to the new Corporation has been substantially increased. 
There have been a number of other  initiatives  introduced by this Government in order to strengthen the base of our export industries. I think one of the most lamentable facts is that the Opposition has seen fit to oppose and reject the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. In the light of the statements made by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  who was urging upon the Government the need to expand our undertakings and expand our efforts in relation to some of the centrally planned economies in Eastern Europe, I think he ought to realise that it is only on a government to government basis that we can expand our activities in those economies. It is not enough for him to say that the Government should do more if he and his colleagues on that side of the chamber are prepared to oppose and reject the sorts of administrative arrangements that the Government wants to introduce in order to allow it to do just what he urges. 
Proposed expediture agreed to. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Proposed expenditure, $85,336,000. 
Department of the Special Minister of State 
Proposed expenditure, $92,903,000. 
-On 19 September last, the Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board of Western Australia informed the Water Supply Union that it intended to retrench 300 employees. In its attempt to explain its extraordinary decision, the Board simply resorted to blaming the Australian 
Government for a cutback in sewerage funds for Western Australian. I would like to examine the facts which lie behind this situation. 
In 1974-75, the amount allocated to Western Australia under the national sewerage program was $12.4m. In 1975-76-in this year's Budget -it is intended again to allocate $12.4m. Yet, because of the extraordinary arithmetic practised by that Board in Western Australia that allocation is portrayed to the public as a cut of $3m, this notwithstanding the fact that in the last 3 years $30m has been made available to the Government of Western Australia, as the first ever contribution by an Australian Government to reduce the backlog in sewerage works in Western Australia. In fact, in 1974, 40 per cent of all dwellings in Western Australia were still unsewered. I compare that to the national average of 15 per cent of all dwellings being unsewered. So, despite the extraordinary commitment of the Australian Government to this massive problem- it has provided $30m over the last 3 years- gratitude is shown by threatening to retrench 300 members of the Water Supply Union unless the Australian Government is prepared to provide more funds. 
There is another interesting fact that has been entirely overlooked apparently by the Government of Western Australia. This is that in May of last year an agreement very belatedly was reached between the Australian Government and the Government of Western Australia to set up an Urban Land Council. Agreement was reached belatedly only because of procrastination on the part of  Sir Charles  Court and the reluctance of his Government to enter into arrangements whereby a State instrumentality using federal funds would purchase and service land which would be made available for sale to intending house owners at reasonable prices. In this way not only could the supply of land be increased but also the price at which land was made available could be kept to a minimum. It took the Government of Western Australia an inordinately lengthy period to come into this arrangement. Finally it did. More than $1 lm was spent last year in purchasing land for urban and non-urban uses. Again, this year, there is a further allocation to be made to the Urban Land Council for this purpose. 
On 15 and 16 September of this year, just a couple of days before the extraordinary announcement by the Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board of Western Australia to which I have referred the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was in Perth and spoke to his State counterpart,  Mr Rushton.  Between them they agreed that funds totalling $2.5m from the Urban Land Council should be expended on servicing land owned by the Urban Land Council. Of this $2.5m between $lm and $1.5m is to be spent on sewerage reticulation and about $500,000 is to be spent on water reticulation to land held by the Urban Land Council. 
One would have thought that this was not a too extraordinary proposition to suggest that this decision could be seen as being an additional commitment by the Australian Government to the work of the Water Board. It happens that there is a representative of that Board on the Urban Land Council. Presumably that representative knew of the plight of the Board and that retrenchments were imminent. Yet it would appear that the Urban Land Council did not intend to use that Board as the constructing authority for its sewerage and water reticulation work. 
So, in an endeavour to remind the appropriate Ministers in Western Australia of this eminently reasonable solution to the problem the Minister for Urban and Regional Development today sent a telegram to the Minister for Works and Water Supply and the Minister for Town Planning in Western Australia. That telegram reads: 
In view of the current retrenchment proposals by the Metropolitan Water Supply Sewerage and Drainage Board, I strongly urge that funds I approved recently under the Urban Land Council program for land servicing should be directed to sewerage and water reticulation works to be carried out by the  MWSSDB. 
It is signed 'Tom Uren'. One would hope that this seemingly obvious solution will now be abundantly clear to the State Government of Western Australia. It is quite clear that the $lm or $ 1 .5m, whichever is the figure- I do not know the exact figure, but it is between $lm and $ 1.5m- should be added to the $ 12.4m which is being made available under the national sewerage program as a net addition to the sewerage works that can be carried out in Western Australia this year. If that were done, one would imagine that it ought to alter substantially the retrenchment picture as far as the Board is concerned, so long as the Urban Land Council is prepared to direct that the Metropolitan Water Supply Sewerage and Drainage Board should be the constructing authority for the Urban Land Council. 
This catalogue of events indicates a disgraceful record of ineptitude on the part of the Western Australian Government. On the one hand it insists that four out of the five members of the Urban Land Council should be nominees of the 
Western Australian Government with the consequence that only one of the five members is the nominee of the Australian Government. Yet apparently it is beyond the capacity of the Western Australian Government and the 2 Ministers involved to reach this quite simple solution by talking to each other and by realising that each of them has Australian Government money for sewerage works. Rather than doing that, the Western Australian Government just turns on the Australian Government and says that it is our fault that these retrenchments will be necessary. 
However, I do not think we should be surprised at the Western Australian Government's record of ineptitude, because one only has to look at the extraordinary way in which it carried out its negotiations with the union on this matter. On 13 August this year the union wrote to the Board indicating that it had heard rumours that retrenchments may be necessary and indicating that the union was totally opposed to the retrenchments and wanted to know whether there was any truth in the rumours. On 1 9 August the Board replied to the union saying that at that stage there was no indications that retrenchments would be necessary. Exactly one month later the Board informed the union that retrenchments of the order of 300 employees would be necessary because of the alleged cut-backs in Australian Government funds. That, I think demonstrates a cynical disregard on the part of the Western Australian Government for the plight of the workers who are about to be put out of work and their families. It was simply an evil attempt to put pressure on the Australian Government to allocate more funds which, as everybody knows, are in short supply this year. In fact, all of our political opponents are urging us to cut back on expenditure in all areas. In spite of that, the Western Australian Government is urging upon the Australian Government the proposition that it ought to expend more money on sewerage works. Yet it is unaware of the fact that an extra $lm to $1.5m for sewerage works, plus another $500,000 for water supply reticulation, has already been allocated and approved to be spent by the Australian Government in this year by one of the other State government instrumentalities. 
I think that the State Government has really outsmarted itself this time. In an attempt to redirect the criticism from itself, where it really belongs, to the Australian Government, it missed the solution which lay in its hands the whole time. I remind the House that the decision to retrench the workers was taken on 19 September, whereas on 15 and 16 September 
Minister Rushton met with Minister Uren and they between them agreed to spend something like $2m on work which could easily be done by the Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board. I hope that the State Government does take the advice of the Federal Minister and agrees that this money should be spent in this way in order to save the jobs of the workers involved. 
Did the Treasurer see a statement in the  West Australian  newspaper this morning indicating that the Australian Government should vacate a part of the income tax field equivalent to the value of the Australian Government 's reimbursements to the States? What would be the implications for overall national economic management if this suggestion were adopted? 
-We are today debating 3 important pieces of legislation which have been introduced to give effect to the Government's long standing intentions in the field of Aboriginal affairs.  (Quorum formed).  Before going on to the more general questions I want to spend some time talking about the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill which has taken up a lot of the time of the speeches of honourable members opposite. I find it rather intriguing that the Liberal Party particularly has at last discovered Aboriginal people. Members of the Liberal Party come here and talk sanctimoniously about consulting with the Aboriginal people and giving effect to the wishes of the Aboriginal people. They seem to have forgotten that for at least 20 years and for a long time before that they allowed the Aboriginal people to be entirely neglected, to remain entirely without consultation and to be entirely ignored by governments of which they were a part. They are members of the Party which, when in government, produced a statement on land rights on Australia Day 1972. 1 am sure I do not have to remind the House that the consequence of that announcement was the establishment of the Aboriginal embassy on the lawns outside Parliament House. That is how their pronouncement on land rights was received by the Aboriginal people. They acted completely without consultation and the Aboriginal people entirely disagree with and entirely rejected their propositions which were set out in the statement by the then Prime Minister. 
But that was not enough for the Liberal Party. It then went on to legislate for the removal of the Aboriginal embassy and when that did not work it moved in the police to remove the Aboriginal people and their embassy in a most violent and unprecedented way. Yet these are the people who now berate the Government for not having the concern for the Aboriginal people and for not having consulted with them. It seems to me that the Liberal Party - 
Motion ( by  Dr Forbes)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Tangney be not further heard. 
It is an amusing turn-about to see the Opposition in fact opposing the rationalisation of the bureaucracy that supports and implements the policies of this Government. I am more used to hearing criticism from the Opposition on the basis that the Government has set up too many commissions or too many committees of inquiry in earnest of achieving its objectives rather than that it has too few of them. Yet it seems to be suggested by honourable members opposite, without having a total understanding of what is involved, that it would be better if we maintained 2 commissions to involve themselves in the field of tertiary education rather than rationalising them into one. I would have thought that the people who seem to be particularly concerned about governmental efficiency and so on would have seen very quickly the desirable consequences of rationalising this process. 
One only has to look at the possibilities for duplication of activities within the various colleges and universities to see that there does need very urgently to be some co-ordination and some cross-examination as far as the functions and activities of these 2 areas of tertiary education are concerned. However, I want to move on to another subject because the Bill that is now before the House brings to our attention once again the increasing role of this Parliament and the Australian Government in the total field of tertiary education. I want to spend a little time talking about-  (Quorum formed)  I want to spend a little time talking about the consequences of the increasing role of the Federal Parliament, the Australian government, in tertiary education. I want to consider that point in terms of the universities. As everybody knows, universities in this country outside of the territories are established under Acts of the various State parliaments. The universities are set up as selfgoverning bodies with governing councils or senates. These senates or governing councils are usually composed of academic staff, students, sometimes nominees of the alumni or convocation, ex-officio officers and appointees of the State governments. 
There are very good reasons for having this sort of composition and particularly it is important to have on those governing councils nominees of the State governments, that is, representatives of the community. The main reasons for this are that it is important to see that public funds which are spent by universities are administered correctly. It is also important to see that the aims of the institutions are met to the satisfaction of the community and that there is some method of accountability by the universities to the community. Prior to national involvement in the financing of university education, which occurred for the first time in the early 1950s, it was proper that the State governments, which established the universities, should be responsible for determining the method of government within those universities and for selecting those people who should sit on the governing bodies. 
However, I think that as a consequence of the increasing role of the Federal Parliament, the Australian government, in this area this matter has to be reassessed. Even when there was a joint contribution by the State governments and the Federal governments in respect of the financing of university education there was probably still a justification for a continuing dominance by the State parliaments in this regard. With the abolition of university fees and with the assumption of the total financial responsibility by the Australian government circumstances have changed sufficiently for us to reassess this position. It is not that I do not recognise that even with the assumption of total financial responsibility the arrangements are such that the funds go first to the State government before they are passed on to the institutions but I do not think that this removes much from the basic argument which I am trying to put, which is that the funds, however they get to those institutions, are totally appropriated by this Parliament from revenue collected by this Parliament. As a result I think there is a case to be made out for the universities to have some accountability to this Parliament and for this Parliament to be responsible for maintaining an accountability by the universities to the community. 
I am not suggesting that there is a case for governments, whether they be State or Federal governments, involving themselves in the detailed running of the universities. I support the idea that universities should be autonomous and self-governing. But it is important that the governments that finance these institutions ensure that these institutions have clearly in mind the interests of the community and reflect the needs of the community in the carrying out of their functions. 
The functions and aims of a university are to a large extent determined by the manner in which a university is governed. I am not saying that we ought to be dictating to universities from this Parliament or from any other Parliament what their precise aims should be but we should be ensuring that the process of government within the universities should be such as will allow them to determine as freely as possible, in a way as acceptable as possible to both the community within the university and the community outside the university, the aims and functions of those universities. 
The question of autonomy is not one which can simply be taken for granted. Once they have autonomy there are a number of things that universities can do. For instance they can return to the sort of cloistered insulation from the community which was once the hallmark of the universities. They just satisfied their goals as they saw them without reference to the community at all. On the other hand, if universities are entirely autonomous and self-governing they can deteriorate to a stage where they just become mass production knowledge factories. I do not think these are things we want to see. Universities, insofar as they are self-governing, can determine their functions and aims only as permitted by the sorts of people who are contributing to the decision-making processes within them. If the governing processes, the decision-making processes, within the universities are limited to a small number of people then the decisions that will be made and the aims that will be set will be different from those in universities in which a wider range of people participate in the decisionmaking processes. We should be seeing that universities become and continue to be independent and critical forces and not simply the slaves of society or of our economic and social system as it has developed over time. I do not think it can be said that universities in Australia have played a sufficiently important role in terms of being critical and independent. For far too long they have simply been the slaves of our economic and social system. This has been allowed to happen because of the way universities have been governed and because of the ways in which the people who have determined the rules and aims of universities have been selected. 
The most important thing is that the objective of pluralism is highest in the minds of university authorities. Pluralism is another thing which can be thrown around as just an aim of which we all approve but again it can be seen in different ways. For instance it can be interpreted as meaning that a university can have within it an excess of compartmentalisation and fragmentation with each discipline going about its own activities in its own way. On the other hand pluralism can mean that there can be a great diversity within a university and, more importantly, there can be an interface between the disciplines so that they can challenge and criticise each other. One of the very great problems with universities in Australia is that engineers are learning to be very good technicians without having any regard for the sorts of consequences of the application of their techniques. Similarly, economists are learning how to be very good practitioners within a capitalist system and doing very little in terms of trying to challenge the capitalist system or examining alternative economic systems. We should avoid the position where the various disciplines can determine their own aims and objectives. 
We have to have a pluralism which allows for a criticism between the disciplines and an exchange of views about where disciplines are going within the whole context of society and particularly within the context of the university. How a university perceives itself is very much a matter of who within the university is making the decisions and setting the aims. There are 2 important objectives in university government upon which we must insist. One is that all aspects of the university community should be represented and should be able to participate in university government. This would mean that the academic staff and the students should be able to participate in an appropriate way. By 'academic staff' I do not mean just those who happen to be heads of departments or senior lecturers. I also include tutors and demonstrators as well as students from a broad range of years of experience. 
More importantly, there must be adequate participation by the community itself. This is particularly where we have to consider whether we will continue to fund, in an uncritical way, universities over whose internal government we have no control. As I said before, I think that this is legitimate because we are totally responsible for funding them, because we have the prime role in determining when new universities will be established and because we have a responsibility to make sure that in return for the expenditure of those funds universities are fulfilling the roles which the community sets for them. Also they should be financially accountable to this Parliament rather than to the State parliaments. 
I am not attempting to diminish the difficulties involved in bringing about this sort of change. For a start, as I said, the universities are set up by Acts of State parliaments, and it is not within the competence of this Parliament to do anything about that. The only role we have is in terms of financing them. Most of what I have said also applies to governments of other tertiary institutions. I would like to see the commission set itself the task of examining university government and the government of tertiary institutions to see what changes could be brought about to ensure a more adequate representation of the community view within universities so that universities will respond more precisely to the needs of the community and will reflect the will of the community. 
-I am not by any means the first person to have once been a member of this House and to have returned to it, but I am in a reasonably unique position in that I not only now sit in this chamber with the present honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  who is a successor of mine, but also had the opportunity of sitting in this House with my predecessor. Of course, my predecessor is well known to most people not only in this House but also in Australia. He is Kim Beazley, who served in this Parliament for more than 32 years. He and John Curtin, who preceded him, together represented the electorate of Fremantle for over 44 years. The tradition of Australian Labor Party representation of that electorate is a tradition which I intend to maintain. 
Returning to this place after two years' short service leave, I find myself deeply troubled by what I see. I first came here, and indeed return here, in the belief that it just may be that being in this place presented an opportunity to participate in decisions which affect the lives of Australians and which will bear on the future development of this country. When I was first elected to this Parliament I sat on the other side of the chamber behind a Prime Minister and a Ministry which had a passionate commitment to solving many of the problems which faced and I regret to say still face this country. They set about their task with verve and industry. Despite the smallmindedness of honourable members opposite, their efforts will be one day accorded the respect they deserve. The period from 1972-1975 will be acknowledged as the time when Australia came of age in social and political terms. We saw an end to ad hockery and the beginning of a rational and national approach to so many problems- the problems of urban life, manufacturing industry and education, the immense problems faced by Aboriginal people, the inadequacies of childhood services and health care delivery services, the conservation of our natural and built environment, the development of our natural resources and the upgrading and bringing into the twentieth century of our international relations. It was this new approach, this new enthusiasm, which was the hallmark of that time. Despite persistent attempts to ignore those achievements and to exaggerate and wrongly ascribe blame for the failures that occurred, no one can deny that simple truth. 
That was a time when to be a member of this House was to participate in something of significance, to be part of a minor revolution. Parliament was momentarily the focus of Australia 's activity. For a brief second it was seen as active and relevant. It was not always viewed with approval but it was at least noticed. So it has been a shock for me to return to be confronted by a sea of faces on the other side oozing cynicism and smug self-content from every pore. These are the people in power and these also are the people who seem to be intent on repudiating the trust which the people of Australia have handed them. 
They are not interested in action or innovation. They are not interested in solving problems. Indeed, they seem to be intent on denying the very existence of the greatest problem which confronts this nation. These are the men of indifference. They are totally indifferent to the problem of unemployment, which is seen by them as a necessary and justifiable consequence of their economic policy. They could not care less about what it actually means to people- what it means to be a middle aged worker without work for the first time in his life; what it means to be a woman ready and eager to return to the work force but with nowhere to go; what it means to be young and well educated and to have door after door slammed in one's face; what it means to be parents who see their children gradually lose their self-esteem and self-confidence in the face of this continual demoralising rejection; and what it means to these kids who, when they attempt to find other ways in which to fill their time, are hounded by police, scolded by courts and admonished by governments. 
This Government could not care less. It is always someone else's fault- Whitlam's fault, the unions' fault, the consumers' fault, the investors' fault, the Labor Premiers' fault, anyone's fault except Fraser's fault. The well-heeled gaggle which sits opposite sits there mute, passive and comfortable as the horror progresses. Maybe they have been overawed by the indulgence of this Parliament and the ridiculous pomp which seems to remove us all further from the people and their problems. We seem to be more interested in carrying on as though this were some sort of museum rather than a place where issues are raised, anxieties ventilated and problems solved. It does not really worry me if the Ministry wants to parade around in striped trousers or if the  Speaker  wants to look comical in that absurd wig and now wants to extend the nonsense into some sort of farcical procession. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member is reflecting on the  Speaker.  I ask him to withdraw that remark. 
I was reflecting only on a tradition which the  Speaker  has seen fit to revive, which was not a tradition when I was last here. 
Listening to the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  I am encouraged, if not a little surprised, by the reasonableness of his approach to this question. It is certainly not in the interests of the Opposition to promote this argument as a highly polarised one. However, I am bound to say that the attitude of the honourable member for Berowra is in sharp contrast to that of his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has set about in the last two years or so demonising the Industries Assistance Commission and blaming it for the substantial ills which confront this country. I suppose this piece of legislation more than anything else we have had to deal with in this Parliament illustrates clearly important aspects of the Prime Minister's character. For instance, it is another example of the Prime Minister's determination to blame others for problems which really are of his own making and the solutions for which are within his own hands. 
We have had for the last two years a constant assault on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It has been blamed for the problems of the economy. It has been blamed for unemployment. Every time the Arbitration Commission gives a new decision on wages the Government says that this will set back the recovery which we have all been awaiting for so long. As well, the Prime Minister has been demonising the trade union movement for the last two years and blaming it for the problems, particularly unemployment and inflation, which beset this economy. The Prime Minister has demonised the Opposnon for discouraging confidence and encouraging speculation on the currency. We see this legislation as a formalisation of his admonition of the IAC which has been unrelenting, at least in the last year. The important thing to note, however, is that when the Opposition was in government we had to deal with these exact problems. We had the problems of the Arbitration Commission. We had the problems of an Oppostion determined to destabilise the economy and determined to destabilise the political complexion of this country. The Labor Government also had the problem of the Industries Assistance Commission. Yet, under this Government, which has exactly the same problems, we have seen the unemployment problem escalate to almost unprecedented levels. However, the Government sees fit to allow the blame for its problems to rest upon those institutions with which the previous Labor Government dealt much more successfully. 
I suppose that we can be encouraged by one aspect of this legislation. At least with its passage perhaps one of the subjects of the admonition of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be removed. He will no longer be able to hold the IAC as being culpable for all of our economic ills. A second illustration of the Prime Minister's character which is contained in this legislation is his penchant for creating and encouraging a myth and then using that myth to substantiate legislative or other action. We saw a classic case of this late last year when the Prime Minister encouraged speculation about an early election. In fact, he initiated that speculation. He encouraged it for months and months. Then, when it suited him, he moved in and said that because of this speculation, because of the need to end that speculation, he would have to call an early election. Now we have seen the same move in respect to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
We have seen the creation by the Prime Minister of an argument or an attack against the IAC. He has been developing it over the last two years, almost solely amongst the Ministers of this Government. He has ignored the support for the IAC which has come from various sources, particularly the rural community, the retail community and consumers and has led an assault on it. Now he is using the attack, which he initiated and encouraged, to justify the introduction of this legislation. Thirdly, this legislation represents a further confirmation of the Prime Minister's determination to inflict compulsorily on the community the madness of his individual economic policy. His economic policy has absolutely nothing to do with reality. It has very little support amongst respectable economists of this country. Yet, with his obsessive attitude, he will inflict that policy on the IAC. He hopes, if he can force the IAC to embrace his particular economic madness, that that will make his economic policy that much more respectable. 
One of the aspects of his curious approach to economics which is exemplified by this legislation, is his view that so long as expenditure does not show up in the Government accounts it does not exist. That is to say, so long as assistance for industry does not show up in Government accounts and so long as it is disguised in other ways, but nevertheless borne by the community, it may be ignored by Government. He will resist any attempt to transfer that necessary assistance from the general community, including consumers and export industries, on to the Government as a whole and to provide that assistance via budgetary measures. I suppose that the most dangerous aspect of this legislation is that it reveals the Prime Minister's intention to force the IAC to come forward with recommendations which the Government will find palatable. That is, it will avoid the Government having to make difficult political decisions as a result of recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission. In that proposal lies the charge which the Opposition makes of the attack on the independence of the IAC- that is, its independence to make a rational and intelligent assessment of the problems which confront an industry which is under its notice. 
Before dealing with the particular changes which are included in this Bill, I want to examine very briefly the role of the IAC as it has operated since its creation in 1973. The procedures are that the Government sends to the IAC a reference to examine the question of further assistance, continued assistance or reduced assistance for a particular industry. The IAC then inquires into that reference and, importantly, does so in public. It then in many cases produces a draft report which contains draft recommendations. That is circulated to all interested parties. As a result of further submissions on the basis of the draft report, a final report containing final recommendations is prepared, sent to the Government and is made public by the Government. It is important to emphasise, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  did, that the IAC has absolutely no executive power to enforce its decisions or recommendations upon the Government. The Government has the power to reject, accept or amend the recommendations which the IAC has made and it is perfectly proper that the Government should have that power. What is important is that the recommendations which the IAC does make are based on the best possible public information, are subjected to public scrutiny and are eventually made public when the recommendations are given to the Government. 
Having said that, I turn quickly to three of the matters included in this Bill and to discuss what the implications of these changes appear to be for the IAC. The first of these matters is the intention to narrow the quidelines and to allow the Minister to add specific priority directives to any reference which goes to the IAC. The point of these changes, we are told in the second reading speech and in various Press comments from the Prime Minister and other Ministers, is to ensure that the IAC takes greater account of the economic policies of this Government. This is an intriguing proposition in itself. It will be fascinating to see, once this legislation becomes law, the way in which the Government is able to put into simple words as a directive to the IAC exactly what its economic policy is. 
For instance, we are told by the Government in the Governor-General 's Speech that the major priority of this Government is its so-called counter-inflationary policy. We are told that that is its top priority, that it has no intention of deviating from it and that it has no intention of giving any attention to the problem of unemployment until such time as the problem of inflation in its own terms has been overcome. Are we perhaps to see lower and lower protection being recommended by the IAC as a result of this priority and this directive? If we look at the effects of protection on the consumer price index in recent times, we find, at least in the clothing and footwear industries, that since the imposition of the higher levels of protection for those industries the direct effect on the CPI has been in the order of 2 per cent. If we compound this by taking into account the wage indexation implications of that increase, we find that the addition to the CPI as a result of that protection alone has been in the order of  3Vi  per cent. Therefore, are we to see, in the interests of achieving the Government's top priority- a reduction in inflationa reduction in the level of protection which is given to those two industries? That is a clear implication from the changes which are before us today. 
The only conclusion one can come to on this question is that the IAC must take into account the Government's attitudes to these matters in order that it might prejudge the issue. I contend that that will influence greatly the independence of that body. 
The second proposition I want to refer to is the proposal that the IAC should advise the Government on that level of assistance which would be necessary to maintain existing activity and employment in an industry. I suggest that this is a nonsense proposition and that it will be impossible for the IAC to respond to that sort of directive. The IAC itself has pointed to the impossibility of this task. We have only to look at what has happened in recent years to see the nonsensical nature of this directive. Looking at some of the industries which have received the highest protection in recent times- that protection being based on the desire to maintain employmentwhat have we in fact seen? We have seen the profitability in those industries increase. In fact, the most highly protected industries are some of the most profitable. Yet we have seen the decline in employment in those industries occur more rapidly than in manufacturing industry as a whole. Not only that, we have seen the level of wages in those industries lower than for manufacturing industry as a whole. Therefore, the consequences of higher protection which is ostensibly to maintain employment have in fact led to lower wages, higher profits and less employment. 
Let me give the example of the footwear industry. Do not think for a moment that I am attacking this industry or suggesting a reduction in protection for it. The point I am trying to make is that the Government is adopting a quite unrealistic approach to this question. Clearly it does not understand the implications of the legislation which is before us. The footwear industry currently enjoys an effective rate of assistance of 45 per cent. It is the fourth most highly profitable manufacturing industry. Yet, the level of wages in the industry is about only 80 per cent of the wages paid by manufacturing industry as a whole. At the same time as this has been happening there has been a reduction in employment in the footwear industry of over 10 per cent compared with a reduction of 5 per cent in manufacturing industry as a whole. The point is that one cannot have clear objectives in respect of protection. One cannot simply say to the Industries Assistance Commission: 'We want you to maintain employment, we want you to tell us what level of protection is necessary to maintain employment', if in fact by increasing protection we will reduce employment as has happened in the footwear industry. 
The third aspect of this legislation with which I want to deal is the proposition that will allow the Minister to withdraw a reference from the IAC. At the moment, once a reference has been given to the IAC, that body deals with that reference until the time it delivers to the Government a first or final report with its recommendations. The proposition now is that at any time during the IAC's consideration of that reference the Minister can write to the Commission and ask it to discontinue its treatment of that reference. I think this proposal might be innocuous. The Government says it is innocuous. However, it contains some very serious possible implications. As I said before, the IAC had a practice of presenting a draft report with draft recommendations. It may be that once a government sees the draft report with its draft recommendations and finds it not to its liking it may withdraw the reference from the Commission. That would be bad enough in itself because the reference would be withdrawn on the basis of an incomplete consideration by the Commission. 
The Commission on many occasions has changed recommendations contained in a draft report before presenting its final report. Those changes are usually made on the basis of consultation with industry and other interested parties. If the Government has the power to respond to draft reports in this way I think this practice will have very serious implications for the way in which the Commission operates. The way in which the Commission may respond- and I suspect it will respond- will be to discontinue its practice of printing and publishing draft reports with draft recommendations. This would have very serious implications for the method of operation of the Commission. I believe the practice of draft reports has been a good one. It has allowed for greater public scrutiny of the work of the Commission. It has given interested parties the opportunity to make a second comment on a reference as it develops in the Commission's deliberations. Therefore, I think this is a serious change which may not be nearly as innocuous as the Government maintains. 
I believe the most serious deficiency of the legislation is the way in which it confirms the Government's intention to ignore the question of the need for structural adjustment- the structural adjustment which the Prime Minister maintains is just a polite word for the elimination or export of jobs. I believe there are very few industries and unions which do not understand, recognise and even welcome the need for structural adjustment. But structural adjustment cannot take place in isolation. It cannot happen without Government support. That is the very great deficiency in this Government's approach to the manufacturing industry. It does not have a long term policy for the development of manufacturing industry and to that extent, the IAC is considerably hamstrung in its approach to this question. 
Also, the Government adopts an attitude which ignores the cost of protection- that is, protection by way of tariffs, quotas and so on- to the community. Instead of redirecting that cost via the Budget in the form of direct assistance to industry so that industry can adjust sensibly, rationally and comfortably, it simply puts the whole question to one side and tries to prop up industries which are palpably inefficient and whose existence is against the best interests of this country. By ignoring the question of structural adjustment, we are placing at a greater disadvantage our export industries and many other industries which will form the basis of future development in this country. Therefore, I believe the great deficiency of this legislation is the way in which it illustrates quite clearly the intention of the Government to ignore again the important question of providing direct assistance to industry for the purpose of structural change. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hyde)  adjourned. 
-I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the fact that the Western Australian Government intends to provide for the Minister for Community Welfare in that State to override the Commissioner for Aboriginal Planning and, by extension, the Aboriginal Land 
Trust in relation to approving the entry of further diamond prospectors, including a subsidiary of the South African De Beers group, to Aboriginal reserves in the Kimberleys. As this will conflict with the wishes of the local Aboriginal community and is contrary to the provisions of the Commonwealth land rights legislation, will the Minister indicate whether the concern he expressed for Kimberley Aborigines prior to the recent Kimberley by-election extends to taking action to prevent the State Government disregarding the wishes, in particular, of the Oombulgurri people? 
I want to talk briefly about the problems being faced by the Community Youth Support Scheme conducted by the Fremantle City Council. I have been prompted to speak as a result of the speech made here on 9 March by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  in which he quoted a letter he received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I repeat the quote. It reads: 
Over 100,000 people were assisted under these schemes in 1976-77 - 
And this is the important bit - and given our commitment that funds will not be a limiting factor this financial year, we expect many more to be assisted in 1977-78. 
In August last year the Fremantle Youth Involvement Committee received $16,300 for a period of 26 weeks to allow it to employ two full-time workers under the CYS scheme. After a thorough review of the project late last year it was decided that attempts ought to be made to extend the project beyond the boundaries of the city of Fremantle. Discussions were held. I attended those discussions. Representatives of three local government bodies were at that meeting. It had been decided already with the East Fremantle Town Council that its area ought to be included in the projects conducted by the Fremantle Youth Involvement Committee. However, it was proposed that the program should be extended further to include an area of the city of Melville known as Willagee. We envisaged there might be some problems with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, so on 24 January I approached departmental officers involved in the scheme and discussed with them what problems may be confronted if we tried to extend this project even further than the city of Fremantle and the town of East Fremantle. It was made clear to us that there would be no insurmountable problems. So in order to consult with the community of Willagee we held a public meeting which 33 people representing 10 organisations attended. The meeting unanimously supported the view that the project which had been so successfully mounted by the Fremantle City Council should be extended to that part of the city of Melville. 
The Fremantle City Council project was to be the subject of another submission because the period of its approval of 26 weeks was about to expire. So, instead of proposing simply an extension of the existing scheme, it was decided to apply for an expansion of the scheme to include five full time workers and three part time workers at a total cost of $38,000. The disturbing aspect about this incident is that that proposal was never submitted to the State committee established to consider projects put up within Western Australia. In fact it was referred straight to the Melbourne office and the Melbourne office decreased the scope of the scheme. Instead of approving $38,000 it simply approved $24,000 for a period of 17 weeks therefore allowing the employment of only three full time workers and three part time workers. 
The point I make is that this whole incident has pointed up some very serious shortcomings in this scheme. In the first instance, the period of the approvals is far too short. Approvals for periods of 17 weeks, even up to 26 weeks, are too short to allow project officers to really get their projects mounted with any degree of security at all. The second point is that in this case there was an attempt to increase the efficiency of the scheme through regional co-operation. It appears that those attempts have now foundered on the bureaucratic decisions made by the Department. The third important point is that no reference was made to the State committee. The fourth point about this project is that it is taking far too much time of people who are not being financially supported by it. Officers of the City of Fremantle who are not being supported by the Community Youth Support Scheme, are spending most of their time preparing and repreparing submissions for the scheme. There seems to be as well very little regard paid to the fact that the Fremantle project has been a great success. I have a report here covering 1 8 pages which indicates that approximately 2,000 young people have been assisted by this scheme in six months. It seems that it is certainly a project which is worthy of support. I am very disappointed that the Department has not seen fit in view of the Prime Minister's undertaking to allow for the extension and expansion of the project. 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to the motion to adopt the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I refer, in part, to section (5) of that amendment which states that this Speech:  fails to provide immediate and long-term guidelines for industry . . . 
I want to take a little time to mention the problems that the current water shortage in Perth is creating for industry, amongst other things. In metropolitan Perth we have experienced a drought which has now spanned two years. This has led to very serious problems with regard to the supply of water for the people of the metropolitan area. Not only has it put the citizens of Perth to great inconvenience; it has also raised very clearly the questions of Perth's water needs and its capacity to supply those needs. I suppose I would normally be content to leave the matter of the development of Perth's water supply to the Western Australian Government. It is clearly a State responsibility to provide water supplies for a major capital city but in this instance I think this problem has clear national implications. 
We must recognise that it is the provision of adequate water supplies in Penh which largely will determine the rate of growth and the extent of economic development for the whole of Western Australia, particularly at this time when Western Australia and, perhaps, Queensland are providing a great impetus to the Australian economy as a whole. If there is a problem with the development of the Western Australian economy, this will also affect the economy of Australia as a whole. It is particularly important at this time that we take into account the fortunes of the Western Australian economy as they affect the nation as a whole. For instance, there has been some talk over many years now about the possibility, of establishing a jumbo steel mill somewhere in Australia. It has been considered, at least by the Premier of Western Australia, that the proper place for any jumbo steel mill is Western Australia. He takes the view that the major part of our available uncommitted local supplies of iron ore are in the Pilbara region of Western Australia and, therefore, any steel mill ought to be close to those supplies. The contrary argument has been put forward that because the main coal supplies which would be needed in any steel mill come from the eastern seaboard, the steel mill should perhaps be located there. There were the questions firstly of whether we should have a jumbo steel mill and, secondly, where it should be located if there is to be a steel mill. The point I want to make is that if Australia is to have a jumbo steel mill, whether or not it is located in Western Australia will be determined largely by the availability of water in that State. As all honourable members know, a steel mill is a massive consumer of fresh water. 
Without the problem of the extra complication of a steel mill, let us examine for a moment the likely growth in the consumption of water in Perth to the turn of the century. In 1972 the consumption of water in Perth was 155 million cubic metres. It has been estimated that by the turn of the century it will be something of the order of 619 million cubic metres. This will mean a substantial growth of approximately 460 million cubic metres to be met in that time. That is a very great amount. It is approximately three times the current consumption of water and must be found within slightly more than 20 years. If we consider no other problem in terms of industrial development in Western Australia we must at least cope with that particular problem. It must surely emphasise the problem of trying to create any further burden for the water supply in metropolitan Perth. 
Honourable members may wonder why I, a representative of an urban electorate, am speaking in this debate. 
It is not that we have no one else. It is the other side which has no one else. I looked at the list of honourable members from the Government side who were proposing to speak and found that I had to look very low down on the list before I saw any honourable member from Western Australia, particularly an honourable member from a rural electorate in Western Australia, who was prepared to speak on this measure. I am not surprised that they are a bit coy about speaking because frankly this legislation represents a dreadful sleight of hand on the part of the Government. In December last year we were promised something which the Government then called a fuel equalisation scheme. Even that was wrong because what it really meant was that it was going to introduce a fuel price stabilisation scheme. 
Let me read the actual words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 21 November 1977 leading up to the December election. He said: 
Petrol prices in country areas will be reduced to within a cent per litre of the normal city retail price without any increase in city prices as a result. 
That sounded fair enough and pretty straight forward. In other words, the Government was going to act to ensure that the difference between city prices and country prices was no more than lc per litre. However, we now find that we have not a fuel price equalisation scheme or even a fuel price stabilisation scheme but something which is being called a freight subsidy scheme. Let me read an extract from the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  He said: 
Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister, in the course of the last election campaign, stated that prompt steps would be taken after the election to implement a scheme which would subsidise freight differentials involved in transporting eligible petroleum products from refining ports and seaboard terminals to country sale points. 
Even that is a misrepresentation because it is not what the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister said that the Government would introduce a scheme which would reduce to within lc the difference between the price paid for petrol in the country and that paid in the city. He said nothing about a freight subsidy scheme, which is what the Government has now introduced. In his second reading speech the Minister went on to say: 
The proposed scheme will subsidise country freight differentials to the extent that country consumers of products covered by the scheme will pay a price which includes no more than 4c per gallon of the transport costs. 
That sounds the same as what the Prime Minister said in November last year but, of course, it is not. It is nothing like what the Prime Minister said. In order to confuse us and to confuse everbody further- country people, city people and members of parliament alike- the Prime Minister referred in his speech to prices of petrol in terms of cents per litre whereas the Minister referred in his speech to cents per gallon. It always has been a favourite trick of LiberalNational Country Party governments to confuse people. 
Yes, I can convert but the results are not the same. People may think that a price differential of lc per litre is equal to 4c per gallon. Probably the honourable member for Kalgoorlie thinks that that is the case. Of course, it is not the case. The fact is that lc per litre is approximately equal to 4.5c per gallon. In order to make it perfectly simple for the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, I elaborate by saying that 4c per gallon equals less than 0.9c per litre. So in that regard we can see that a further delusion is being perpetrated by the Government. 
The second sleight of hand involved in this scheme is to be found in the Minister's second reading speech where he said that the Government 'will introduce a scheme to reduce the price paid for certain petroleum products by consumers in country areas throughout Australia'. That sounds fair enough too. That sounds as though country people throughout Australiathat is, everyone living in country areas in Australiawill pay less for their petrol products as a result of the implementation of this apparently great government initiative. I must confess that I am not one who is prepared to take the Government at face value so I thought I would check out the situation to see what it involved for Western Australia, since none of the Western Australian Liberal Party representatives from rural electorates were prepared to tell their constituents exactly what a dreadful scheme this is. For this purpose I chose towns from all the rural electorates throughout Western Australia. This is what I discovered. The amount of freight subsidy which will be paid at the towns listed is as follows: Albany will receive nothing; Bunbury will receive nothing; Busselton will receive nothing. 
Here is one for you. 
-My comments relate to clause 4 of the Bill. I refer the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to that section of his second reading speech in which he stated: 
Before such distributors may be registered they must enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth that they will pass on to consumers the full benefit of subsidy received in respect of all sales made at the locations in the schedule. 
The Bill is silent on that point. What assurance can the Minister give us in relation to that section of his speech? I take it that the people registered under this new proposal will, in fact, be the major suppliers- for all intents and purposes the wholesalers of the product- the major oil companies and anyone else who carries on a wholesaling activity. The speech seems to say that it will be up to the wholesalers to pass on to the consumers the full benefit which they have received. In that context is a consumer a retailer or a final purchaser? It is important to make that distinction. It has been pointed out to me by people who are knowledgeable about the industry that even if the full benefit of the subsidy were passed by the major wholesalers, the major oil companies, to the retailers, there are no guarantees or requirements that those retailers would pass on the benefit to the final users, the purchasers of the fuel from retailers through normal service stations. 
Given that in many instances the amount of the price reduction brought about by the subsidy will be very small, how do we know that the retailers will, in fact, pass on the benefit of the subsidy? I do not want to cast any aspersions on the integrity of the retailers. But in an atmosphere where there are frequent increases in wholesale prices a retailer may not even know that the cost of freight had been subsidised and, therefore, the wholesale price reduced. Unless someone were to bring it to his attention he may not even know that there had been a reduction which he was supposed to pass on to the final consumer. In any event, if the amount were very tiny the retailer may not think it worth while to make the necessary adjustment to the mechanisms on his pumps. 
There is another point. Many of the retailers operating in remote country areas are already operating at margins below retailers who operate in the main metropolitan centres. They may take this as an opportunity to increase their margins to something closer to the level which operates in the metropolitan areas. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer the Minister to section 3 of the arrangement entered into by the Governor-General and the Governor of Western Australia in 1973 which requires the Western Australian Government to consult appropriately with the Australian Government prior to its exercise of certain powers under the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act of Western Australia. In relation to the Western Australian Government's intention to amend regulation 8 of the Act to override the power of the Oombulgurri people effectively to determine who is permitted to enter their land, has the Minister yet been consulted? If so, when and in what form? What was the Minister's response to the proposed change? If the consultation was wholly or partly in writing, will the Minister table the documents? 
-To sit here and listen to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  say without even a blush that his trip to Japan has been a success is absolutely breathtaking. If his trip was such a success why was it necessary for the Premier of Western Australia to go traipsing to Japan a week later to secure some phoney understanding from the Japanese. If the achievement of the Premier that is, the maintenance of our proportion of supply to the Japanese steel mills, was so significant, why was it not possible for the  Deputy  Prime Minister to extract that sort of undertaking? 
-If he did so, why was it necessary for the Premier to go there? The Premier spent about a week there. While he was in Japan, we in Perth were treated to a most disgraceful display of trumped up publicity relating to the Premier's own assessment of the success of his trip. These were paraded before the whole population of Western Australia as great achievements. Yet, when he returned, having said that he was going to Japan to secure the jobs of people in the Pilbara, he said: 'That is all very well. I was able to have a very successful trip there but I am not able to bring back any promise of security for the workers in the Pilbara. 
As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  rightly said, what we are interested in is not simply the maintenance of a proportion of supply to Japan. We are interested in the maintenance of tonnages to Japan. We are the major suppliers to Japan. We should be the last to suffer as a result of any cutbacks in the Japanese steel industry. Honourable members must remember that the industry in the Pilbara is committed to the extent of about 70 per cent to the Japanese industry. That is an enormous commitment for any industry to make to one country. In return for that commitment, surely it is not too much to ask for Japan to ensure some security with regard to the continuity of its purchases. In any event, all the Premier of Western Australia has been able to say, all the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been able to say, is that the proportion we are now supplying to Japan will be maintained. As if we would accept something less than that! It would be totally outrageous for us to accept anything less than a constant proportion of a declining market. That is the position with which we are faced. We are not in a situation where maintaining our proportion of supply to Japan will maintain tonnages. What we are seeing is a declining amount being bought by Japan and, even if we do maintain our percentages, we will still have a situation where the tonnages supplied to Japan are reduced substantially. 
It would appear that, despite the Premier's undertakings, despite the  Deputy  Prime Minister's assurances, we are not near the truth yet. If we look at the indications in the Press only a couple of days ago we find that Mount Newman Mining Co. Pty Ltd is being asked to take cuts of something like 34 per cent below the basic contract levels. That is what Mount Newman is being asked to supply for the June quarter. If this was extended for the rest of the year it would represent approximately a one-third reduction in the basic contract levels. Surely we are not expected to accept that sort of proposal without a murmur. The  Deputy  Prime Minister talks about the wonderful job the Premier of Western Australia is doing in trying to get Goldworthy Mining Ltd's Area C going. We are not just interested in getting Area C going for its own sake. There is no point in Goldsworthy Area C being established unless it has some substantial understanding that it will be able to sell the iron ore that it produces from those expanded mines. Area C will be the biggest mine in the Pilbara and to talk about going into that, to talk about making a commitment to the biggest mine in the Pilbara at a time when the existing mines are faced with substantial cutbacks, is absolutely nonsensical and displays a complete ignorance of the whole industry. In any event the problem is that Goldsworthy will not even exist if, as we are told, the current recession in Japan continues. Mount Newman expects that the situation with regard to Japan is likely to continue until 1985. If that is the case, Goldsworthy will soon be out of existence. Therefore, if Gold worthy's current operation is not in existence at that time, the prospects for expanding Area C are just a pipedream. 
Even if we are able to maintain our proportion of the Japanese market, the Western Australian industry will be looking at something like an 8 million tonnes reduction in the amount that was delivered last year. It is a substantial amount. It is more than Goldsworthy Mining Ltd is producing on its own. It means that for the next year at least Mount Newman Mining Co. Pty Ltd and Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd will be operating at something like only 73 per cent capacity. That has very serious implications for the work force in the Pilbara. Between 1,000 and 4,000 jobs could be lost as a result of the failure of this Government to maintain the level of supply to Japan. As a result of having to accept cutbacks, something like 1,000 to 4,000 workers in the Pilbara will be faced with the prospect of joining an ever-increasing dole queue. 
The interesting point that arises is that, although the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Premier of Western Australia have been trumpeting about a commitment by the Japanese to a 48 per cent or 50 per cent share of the Japanese market- the Premier has been prepared to say only that it is approximately 48 per cent to 50 per cent of the share, which suggests that there may even be a decline in the amount that we have historically supplied- this is exactly the same undertaking that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions was able to extract from the Japanese over a year ago. At the time he extracted that promise from the Japanese he was pooh-poohed all over the place as having returned from a fruitless mission. So we now have a situation, 14 or 15 months later, in which not only the Premier of Western Australia but also the  Deputy  Prime Minister went to Japan and came back with nothing more than that commitment and heralded it as a great achievement. 
When they said that  Mr Hawke  was wasting his time they also said that the main problem in the iron ore industry in the Pilbara was one of industrial relations. We heard that repeated here today. Honourable members will recall that  Mr Hawke  gave an undertaking that action would be taken to help resolve industrial disputation in the Pilbara. If we look at the record over the last year we find that there has been a substantial decline in the incidence of industrial disputation in the Pilbara in Western Australia. Let us compare a couple of quarters. In the March quarter of 1976 something like 41,000 man-days were lost compared with only 16,000 in the March quarter of 1977. Similarly in the September quarter of 1976, 36,000 man-days were lost compared with 1 3,500 in the September quarter of 1 977. 
Of course people will be quick to point out that in the June quarter of 1977 there was a substantial amount of industrial unrest. Nobody would deny that. There was a 37-day dispute with Mount Newman Mining Co. To take that as being representative would be quite wrong. It occurred at a time when agreements were being renegotiated. Everybody involved in that dispute now says, and said at the time, that the behaviour of Mount Newman Mining Co. Pty Ltd at that time was absolutely disgraceful and not at all in the interests of promoting anything like industrial peace. Mount Newman not only was being intransigent on the issues before the parties but also was involved in encouraging strike breakers to take the positions of workers who were in dispute. That is why the dispute extended for the period that it did. 
A further point about this whole question of industrial disputation is that one of the reasons why Mount Newman would have been interested in promoting industrial disputation, particularly at that time, is that it is now faced with massive stockpiles. The cheapest way for the company to reduce its production in the face of these mounting stockpiles is to promote industrial disputation. It does not want the production. It does not want the wages bill that goes with that production. So the matter of industrial disputation, which is being portrayed as the most serious problem facing the Pilbara iron ore industry, and the responsibility for it is far from being a simple one-sided matter. 
I do not want to join in the true confessions of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  concerning what people have said about me. I do not think we have to talk about the racist expressions of Government supporters; all we have to judge them by is their actions. Unfortunately I find myself totally discouraged by the legislation which is now before us. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  really ought to be ashamed of himself for coming here with this legislation formed on the basis of statements he has made and statements the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser) has made in relation to undertakings not only to the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island but also to the Aboriginal people of Australia generally. Probably the most disturbing thing which the Minister had to say was that he believed that we ought to take some solace from the fact that in 1 973 an acceptable arrangement for the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Western Australia was entered into by the then Federal Government and the State Government. The Minister holds up the legislation as some sort of paragon which the rest of Australia ought to attempt to emulate. 
I draw attention quickly to some of the shortcomings of that legislation. If the Minister is saying that the Queensland Government and other State governments ought to follow the procedures adopted by the Western Australian Government, he is inviting them to override the wishes of the local Aboriginal people on Aboriginal reserves. That is exactly what is happening in Western Australia. As a result of that arrangement, which was entered into in 1973 in very good faith by a Federal Labor government with a State Labor government, the absolute power for changing regulations under that Act resides with the State Government. 
On the question of the entry into reserves, which is purported to be covered by the legislation before us, the Western Australian situation allows for certain classes of people to be allowed on to reserves. Among others allowed are those people who are prescribed in the regulations. Under those regulations it is possible for the Minister- in this case the State Minister for Community Welfare- to amend regulations of the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act to allow for all classes of people to go on to reserves with or without the consent of the local Aboriginal community. That Minister will be well known to the rest of Australia as the honourable member for Kimberley.  His  attitude on Aborigines is well known. If the honourable member for Kennedy really wants to know a racist all he has to do is look at the State member for Kimberley in the Legislative Assembly in Western Australia. Not only is he a racist by his acts but also he is a racist by his comments which are recorded in court documents. That Minister would like other States to emulate the regulations that exist in his State. That is the sort of thing which one presumes is contained in this legislation. 
It is true that before amending any regulations the State Government is supposed to consult the Federal Minister, but we have only to look at the Federal Minister's recent responses to questions to know that he is in absolute disarray and confusion in relation to the consultative process. Three weeks ago the Minister told me that he did not expect to be consulted because the matter is purely for the jurisdiction of the State Government. In answer to a question of mine a day or two ago the Minister said that that situation was not now correct. He said that he expected to be consulted by the State Government pursuant to an arrangement entered into under the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act. If that is the state of liaison between a Liberal Federal government and a Liberal State governmentneither knows what the other is doing in relation to binding agreements which exist between them- how then can we have any confidence at all in the proposals which this Minister now brings before us? 
In Western Australia the State Government, with or without the Federal Minister's consent, is going to amend the regulations to allow mining companies to enter the Forrest River Reserve for the purposes of exploring for diamonds. This is not done in response to any intransigent attitude by the local Aboriginal community. The local Aboriginal community has said that it is quite happy for a subsidiary of Conzinc Rio-Tinto of Australia Ltd to enter into that reserve and prospect for diamonds. The local community has been happy to negotiate with CRA. The people have been happy with the assurances that CRA has been able to give them in relation to safeguarding the physical and social environment of that community. They are apprehensive about the proposal that two further mining companies should be allowed to explore on their reserves. One of those further companies, which already has a mining exploration permit, is a subsidiary of the De Beers Corporation of South Africa. It is little wonder that the people of Forest River are more than a little apprehensive about the prospect of having a subsidiary of that company with its particular track record floating around its reserve and treating the people with total disregard. 
It is not as though the Aboriginal people are saying that there will be no mining under any circumstances. They are saying that if there is to be any mining on their reserve it will be under conditions and terms which are acceptable to that community. As proof of that there is an agreement which exists between the Forrest River people- the Oombulgurri people- and the CRA Co. in respect of those arrangements. However, that is not good enough for Charles Court. It is not good enough for Alan Ridge. They want to allow anyone who gets an exploration permit to enter into that reserve and do exactly what they like. Just because the Commissioner for Aboriginal Planning in Western Australia has taken the attitude that he, in issuing entry permits to reserves, ought to have regard for the view of the local people, just because the Commissioner does have regard for the local Aboriginal community, the State Government is moving to amend those regulations to over-ride not only the Commissioner for Aboriginal planning but also the local Aboriginal people. I find it more than a little worrying that the Minister is prepared to say in his second reading speech that the sort of thing that he is interested in developing throughout Australia is the situation which exists in Western Australia. If that is what he is trying to give us in this legislation I think we have a great deal to be worried about. 
I want quickly to refer to sub-clause (2) of clause 9. Sub-clause ( 1 ) of that clause purports to set out certain arrangements which the local communities can enter into in relation to the provision of services. A whole list of services is detailed. Sub-clause (2) goes on to say that subclause ( 1 ) should not be construed as preventing other people from providing those services. What sort of a situation are we in if, on the one hand, we give an Aboriginal community the power to provide services for that community and then, on the other hand, turn around and say that this will prevent the Queensland Government or a mining company coming into that reserve and providing those self-same services? 
What are we really trying to do if at the same time as we say we are providing for selfmanagement for these people and allowing them to provide these services for themselves we say we are not constraining the State Government from continuing to provide those services? What sort of a position are the local people in if they cannot provide the services unless the Federal Government supplies the finance when the Federal Minister has said in his second reading speech that he hopes that the State Government will continue to provide services in the normal way? He says that the funding for Aboriginal services in Queensland still goes through State departments. He says that there ought to be a system where State governments are not only encouraged to provide services for Aboriginal communities but also are funded to do so. This Bill does not prevent them from providing those services, so what sort of extra freedom and what sort of extra access to self-management do the local communities have as a result of this legislation? The legislation does not even say that the local communities can choose whether they provide services or whether the State Government continues to provide the services. It says that the State Government will not be prevented from continuing to provide the sorts of services which they provide at other Aboriginal reserves. That, surely, is the situation from which the people are trying to escape. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. The right honourable gentleman will recall that last Wednesday he indicated that while in Japan he had been assured that Australia would maintain its share of the iron ore requirements of the Japanese steel mills. Is this the same assurance as the Premier of Western Australia received while he was in Japan? If so, did the Premier receive any additional assurances? Does this assurance imply that under the current circumstances Australia's sales of iron ore can be expected to fall substantially? Does this explain the gloomy predictions made by Hamersley Holdings Ltd last week? Finally what will be the employment implications of a fall in sales from the Pilbara? 
-The nine days from 3 to 11 April will forever be remembered by Aborigines in Australia with despair and total disappointment as nine days in which they were again abandoned. The nine days started on a high note with the grand promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of an historic commitment and ended with a monumental cop out. On 3 April the Prime Minister said: 
Our basic commitment is that all Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders be as free as other Australians to determine their own varied futures. For it is this basic right which is essential for the building up of their sense of pride and selfesteem. Aboriginals have the fundamental right to choose whether to retain their distinctive traditional identity and culture, or, if they wish, to adopt partially or wholly a European lifestyle. 
That is very grand stuff. That is how the nine days began; it ended with appeasement, appeasement of the Premier of Queensland who was able to say only yesterday that he had been involved in no back down at all. Already, with the ink on the agreement scarcely dry, we are seeing contradictory statements by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Queensland Premier. We had nine days of high political drama on the part of two of the greatest masters of vanity in the land. The important ambition in the whole exercise was to ensure that the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier came out with their reputations and egos intact. The least important people in the whole dismal exercise were the Aborigines themselves. All this was stage managed by the Prime Minister who nine days ago also had this to say, and I again quote from the same speech: 
It was never good enough for politicians or bureaucrats whether at the State or Federal level to impose on the Aboriginal people their conception of what was good for the Aboriginal people. 
This miserable exhibition was not only dishonest but also ruthlessly cruel. The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island whose expressions throughout have been clear and unequivocal are now enmeshed in a minefield of confusing and conflicting laws. What they wanted and what they were promised was the right to manage their own affairs free from the interference of State bureaucrats. They wanted the right to determine their own future. Fundamentally, what they wanted was to be free from the domination of the Queensland Government. That Government has never accepted the concept of land rights. It has never accepted the right of Aboriginal people to determine their own future. It has supported blatantly discriminatory and repressive laws in that State. The Aborigines now find that they are firmly back in the grasp of the State Government, imprisoned by the Government from which they were trying to escape. What this Federal Government fails to understand is that what is needed is a simple once and for all remedy. For too long these people have been disappointed, disparaged and defeated and what they needed so desperately was a clear unambiguous victory and the new security which would accompany such a victory. 
How can they have confidence in this new compromise, this new agreement, which within hours of it being reached was being interpreted quite differently by the Premier on the one hand and by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on the other? Let me give one example of the way in which these interpretations varied in a fundamental respect. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said that the people could continue to work in the same close relationship with the church as they had before. Yet the Premier at the same time was saying that the church could stay solely for the purpose of pursuing its pastoral duties but would have no role in assisting the community to manage its own affairs. That is a clear difference of interpretation of a basic aspect of the agreement. 
In another respect there is also quite depressing confusion. The agreement which was reached by the two governments talks of the need for consultation. It says that the Queensland Government has offered to consult with the Commonwealth Government on the terms of the legislation required. What does consultation' mean? The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs says it means that any legislation introduced by the Queensland Government has to be acceptable to the Commonwealth, but if that is what it means, why does the agreement not say so? We have seen other instances of requirements for State governments to consult with the Commonwealth on aboriginal affairs but consultation has meant nothing more than informing the Commonwealth of what the State government intended to do. In Western 
Australia now we have a classic example in relation to the change of regulations which determine access to the Forest River reserve. The State Government believes that it already has consulted with the Federal Minister but the Federal Minister will say only that the State Government has informed him of what it intends doing. This is a totally unsatisfactory aspect of this agreement and it will be seen by all Australians as yet another defeat for the Aborigines. 
These people have been so conditioned to defeat and disappointment that I dare say this agreement will be accepted with stoicism and will increase the cynicism with which they regard politicians and governments. What was needed was a break from this despairing history. It must be realised that Aboriginal communities do not have the resilience to withstand this sort of defeat forever. What was and still is needed is encouragement, extra encouragement, to overcome the tragic sequence of defeat and devastation which they have had to withstand for so many years. Let me give the House an example of how past atrocities still influence the attitude of Aboriginal people. In 1926 in the Kimberleys a pastoralist was killed apparently by an Aborigine. A party of police and civilians set out to seek revenge. In the ensuing few days they managed to chalk up the scalps of at least 34 Aboriginal people. They shot and burned those people and crushed their bones in the sand. As a result of a royal commission held the next year it was established that two police officers were closely associated with and responsible for at least some of those deaths, yet in subsequent court proceedings the police officers were acquitted. 
That history and that experience still dominates the attitude and the outlook of the Oombulgurri people of Forest River. There stands in their settlement on the reserve a cross high on a hill to mark that atrocity, that massacre. People still alive today lost relations, uncles and aunts, and remember it. Older people in the community still talk of returning to the scene of those atrocities and of still hearing the cries of women and children coming out of the land. How can we expect people with these experiences and with this history to stand up to governments which try to impose their will so ruthlessly on them? How can we expect them to continually resolve to fight this sort of government action? What is necessary under these circumstances is to make a clear break from the past; not simply to give these people equal access to laws but to give them extra encouragement to determine their own future in their own way. The disappointing thing about this agreement which has been reached with the Queensland government is that it clearly fails to do that. The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island must be totally confused by what has been agreed upon. In nine days we have seen the Government move from one position to another, from one foot to another, and never in that time has it bothered to consult with the people who are going to be most affected. In 1967 the Commonwealth was entrusted with a sacred responsibility to make laws for the interests of Aboriginal people. The Government has now abrogated that sacred trust. It is to the Government's great discredit that it has moved to that position. 
In the last minute available to me, I should simply like to refer to a proposition which has been put by Stewart Harris which I think commends itself very greatly to us. He talks about the need for us to enter into a treaty of commitment which would ensure a complete break from the past in terms of our attitudes to Aboriginal people. It would put on a completely new footing the relationship between Aborigines and the rest of Australians. It would ensure a fundamental right to a certain level of financial support for now and for ever. It seems to me that now, when the Government seems to be intent on abrogating its constitutional responsibilities, would be an excellent time to enter into such a treaty of commitment with the Aboriginal people of Australia to ensure that such a depressing and demoralising episode as that which we have witnessed in recent days is never repeated. 
I rise to second the motion moved by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I do so with some hesitation because I have in my possession a compilation of 38 reports which were produced in the 1 1 years to 1 976 and which cover matters affecting Aboriginal people. So it is with some trepidation that I support the proposal that there should be a further report. However, it is important that this matter be considered by a Committee of this House at this time. As the honourable member for Capricornia has rightly pointed out, it is now 17 years since an earlier Committee of the House reported, in 1961, on a similar aspect. It is worth noting that some of the recommendations of that Committee were intended to be of an interim nature to pave the way for further amendments at a later stage. I think that now, 17 years later, it is time to see what further improvements can be made. 
Secondly this is the time when more Aboriginal people are participating increasingly in the electoral processes. Because of that it is important that we consider their views in relation to their recent experiences to see whether they can be taken into account and whether their access to the franchise can be facilitated. Thirdly the Aboriginal question is exercising more of the attention of politicians and therefore we ought to be looking particularly at the ways in which we can consult Aboriginal people directly. The best way of doing this, of course, is through the ballot box in the normal way. Fourthly we should be looking at this question now because in the last few years we have been concerned to establish formal organisations for the representation of Aboriginal people. I refer particularly to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, which was the predecessor of the existing National Aboriginal Conference. It is appropriate with the experience of those few years to look at how that particular process is working and to see whether it has influenced the attitude of Aboriginal people in relation to the franchise in general. 
Fifthly in view of the findings of the court of disputed returns regarding the Kimberley electoratethis followed the 1977 election in Western Australia- it is important that we conduct this review. That court revealed that in an electorate in which Aboriginal people constitute a significant proportion of the electors, some candidates are prepared to go to any lengths to try to influence those voters. I will refer briefly to that later. 
Lastly, I think it is important that we should be conducting this inquiry now because in Western Australia a judicial inquiry has been established into these questions affecting electoral laws. I think therefore that we ought to conduct a Federal inquiry in tandem with the State inquiry because of course the State inquiry will be concerned only with aspects of State electoral laws. We ought to try to ensure that concurrent investigations into the Federal laws are held. It is vital that any consideration of electoral laws should as far as possible be free from any political acrimony. Although I intend in a few moments to refer to the circumstances of the Kimberley election, I do not want to inject an excess of passion into this debate. Indeed I would expect that the more outrageous practices of their State colleagues would be disowned by Liberal Party members in this place. With this in mind it seems particularly appropriate, if we are to have an inquiry, that it ought to be conducted by a committee on which all parties are represented. 
Before dealing with some of the particular aspects of the circumstances faced by Aboriginal people, I want to examine briefly the principles which I think should guide our discussion of this question. In a democracy there is no more important issue than the operation of the franchise. The franchise is after all simply a means of allowing the people of a democracy to express their options or preferences on any question which is before them. These are usually fairly simple questions, for example, whether people prefer one candidate to another or whether they want to say yes or no to a particular and usually simple question. Therefore in considering the franchise a number of principles must be kept in mind. Firstly, it ought to involve the widest eligibility of the people in a democracy. Secondly, there ought to be equal access to the franchise amongst all those people who are eligible. Thirdly, their access to it ought to be as easy and as simple as possible. Fourthly, their participation in the franchise must be secret. Fifthly, and very importantly, their participation in the franchise must be free from any coercion. If we keep in mind those principles we will be able to make some progress in the consideration of this question. 
I do not think it is important to take into account one's facility with the English language to determine whether a person ought to have access to the franchise. That should be no bar at all. Secondly, I think one's detailed understanding of the political process, the parliamentary process, also should not be a bar to people participating. As I have said, the questions put to the people are usually quite simple. They have to decide whether they prefer one candidate or another or one candidate from several candidates. Therefore the important question that is being asked is not whether the voter understands the whole workings of the political process but simply whether he prefers one of those candidates to another. This also raises a question of the complex problem of the formality of votes. In Australia we have a compulsory preferential voting system in which one can indicate a preference but cast an informal vote simply by not completing the whole of the ballot paper. It seems to me that one's detailed understanding of that voting system should not necessarily be a bar to one's participation in the franchise. Of course one's physical incapacity should never be a bar to participating in the electoral process and one's remoteness from centres of population similarly should not be a bar. 
The important question that we have to consider when we are discussing the franchise and its possible reforms is whether participation in the electoral process is a privilege; that is, should people be forced to make an effort to exercise their participation in it, or is it a right to which all people are entitled, which governments should ensure is equally and easily available. Indeed should governments go out of their way to make it easy as possible for people to participate? I think this is particularly important in Australia where we have a system which operates largely by compulsory voting and so clearly we do not consider it to be just a privilege; we consider it an obligation. Therefore it seems to be clear that governments should ensure that as far as possible it is as easy as possible for people to participate in the electoral process. I think we must ensure that people who are aged, disabled, infirm, migrants and others who may not be fluent in English, people who live in remote areas and people who are uneducated are especially assisted in their participation in the electoral process. 
This raises special problems concerning the Aboriginal population. By and large they tend to live in remote areas. Many of them do not have a complete facility with the English language. Not all of them understand the processes of the system. Currently they are the subject of special electoral provisions, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Capricornia inasmuch as they do not have to enrol, but once they do so of course they must vote. When talking about the fact that many Aboriginal people, like most people in the community, have an incomplete understanding of the political process, it is worth pointing out that in traditional Aboriginal society there was a very sophisticated decisionmaking process. Its social organisation was extraordinarily complex but very efficient. Whilst Aboriginals may not be used to our particular processes, they are very used to the idea of making decisions, to participating in a decisionmaking process and to recognising leaders through that decision-making process. 
When we are talking about what we should do about this problem and how we should improve the access of Aboriginal people to the franchise, I think we ought to keep four points in mind. The first is the question of improving voter education amongst Aboriginal communities everywhere. Just before the Kimberley by-election in December last year, we saw a hastily organised education campaign funded by the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in an attempt to take attention away from the Liberal Party's practices in the earlier election. I congratulate him for taking that action. The only disappointment is that that education program, now that the by-election is out of the way, has fizzled into nothing. Secondly, we should provide opportunities via experience for Aboriginal people to learn through experience about participating in the electoral process. I think this was one of the very important aspects of the first National Aboriginal Consultative Committee because it was not based on appointments; it was based on direct elections. It was based on people having to enrol and to participate in elections in a more or less normal way. In this way we are able to give special experience under special conditions to the Aboriginal people so that it will be much easier for them then to take the relatively short step of participating fully in the voting system in general. Thirdly, we must give consideration to the simplification of procedures in our electoral process; and, fourthly, we must give consideration to the provision of special assistance not only to Aboriginal people but also to anyone who has difficulty in participating in the franchise. 
A number of procedures in State and Federal electoral systems are in need of urgent reform. For instance, take the simple question of enrolment. In "Western Australia an Aboriginal is able to enrol for four different types of electionsFederal, State, local government and the National Aboriginal Conference. Surely it should not be beyond our wits to organise a way in which an Aboriginal person can enrol once and once only for all of those four types of elections. It is incredibly complex to go out to remote communities and try to explain these four different processes of enrolment when enrolment should be the most simple of procedures. It is simply a means of recording a name on a list so that when a person votes we know that that person is eligible to participate in that ballot. We must consider making the procedures for Federal, State, local government and other elections as uniform as possible. As the honourable member for Capricornia has pointed out, we do not want this nonsense of having one set of laws in Queensland, another set in Western Australia and then a quite different set for Federal elections. Surely we ought to be able to simplify those procedures which of course would benefit not only Aboriginal people but all electors. We must also look at the provision of multilingual balloting material for these people and the provision of interpreters at polling places. The next aspect is the - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar) Order! As it is now two hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Ellicott)  agreed to: 
That thetime for the discussion of Notices, General Business, be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
The next matter to which I refer is the acceptance of how-to-vote cards as evidence of someone's voting intentions. I refer also to the consideration of party symbols and party identification on ballot papers. Another matter which requires consideration is the introduction of optional preferential voting so that an elector, by simply having declared his preference for one candidate, does not have his vote declared informal simply because he does not extend his preferences beyond that. The next matter I raise is the consideration of the vexed question of postal voting. Lastly, I raise the question that the honourable member for Capricornia raised, namely, the consideration of whether Aboriginal people should continue to have the special enrolment provisions which apply to them. 
It is vital to remember that Aboriginal people are for the first time participating in an extensive sense in the electoral system. Under those circumstances we must give very special attention to their needs. It is only now that they are considering that the political process is relevant to them and to their needs. A judge in the Court of Disputed Returns in Western Australia said that he was impressed by the sincerity of the Aboriginal people who tried to vote. He was impressed that they understood what they were doing. He was abhorred by the way in which they were prevented from exercising their intentions. Indeed, I think that we should go out of our way to encourage the Aboriginal people to participate in the process because a failure to provide that sort of encouragement will simply lead to the building up of frustrations and a withdrawal from the system which will be a matter for us all to regret. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Does the Treasurer recall that on 23 November last year the Prime Minister agreed in answer to a question that he made use of family trusts to lower the rate of tax he paid? Has the Treasurer included amongst his recently announced proposals amendments to prohibit this practice? If not, is it the Treasurer's intention selectively to outlaw tax dodging and to turn a blind eye to those schemes engaged in by the Prime Minister? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker. 
-In my question to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  this afternoon the middle sentence was: 
Has the Treasurer included amongst his recently announced proposals amendments to prohibit this practice? 
That is the practice of the Prime Minister avoiding tax via family trusts. In his answer the Treasurer tried to say that I had not been following the legislation that went through the House last night. I want to make perfectly clear that the recently announced proposals to which I was referring were the announcements which the Treasurer made last week concerning prepaid interest and prepaid rent which were not part of the amendments which went through the House last night. 
-As the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  said, the Bills before us are non-contentious and the Opposition does not intend to oppose them. As honourable members already have pointed out, they deal with the licensing of broadcasters. I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House, but as I have not had an opportunity to speak on the subject of broadcasting during my period in the Parliament I should like to make a few comments about it. 
Licensing is an immensely important part of broadcasting because it is the major way in which the regulation of broadcasting can be maintained. Regulation is not only necessary to ensure the orderly use of the airwaves but also is vitally important to ensure that standards are maintained and that the needs of the community are satisfied. Of course, some people, particularly the commercial broadcasters, have maintained that it is not necessary to have regulation in order to ensure that the needs of the community are satisfied as the market forces of broadcasting ought to be able to ensure that. In this context, I think it is worth quoting briefly from the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal entitled Self-Regulation for Broadcasters', which reads:   . . the majority of the Tribunal do not believe that the broadcasting industry has shown itself, either through its past performances, or in its current submissions to us. capable of grasping the whole nettle of self-regulation at once. We do not  believe  they have convinced the public that they are yet willing to put the public interest above their selfinterest at all times. In other words, we are not persuaded that the broadcasters will always act in accordance with the concept of the 'public good' if, by so doing, they cut across their own interests and diminish their profits. 
I think that is an important statement from the Tribunal. It clearly indicates that the Tribunal is not prepared to accept the argument that market forces alone are sufficient to ensure that broadcasters satisfy the needs of the community. I maintain that the way in which the needs of the community can best be satisfied, is via some form of public participation in broadcasting. I suppose that public participation can be attained in at least three ways. One would be by way of greater public ownership of the airwaves, that is, greater public participation in the ownership of licences. Secondly, there is the opportunity for members of the public to participate via the market place by registering their preferences as measured by ratings. Thirdly, there is the opportunity for public participation via the licensing and re-licensing procedures. 
I should like to deal with those points one at a time. The Tribunal itself has pointed out that because broadcasting is in the hands of relatively few people, because broadcasting across the nation is concentrated in very few hands, this avenue is not available to most people. That is, via ownership we cannot have a greater participation in broadcasting by the public as a whole. The second avenue is via the market place. I maintain that this is a very inadequate way in which the public can participate. Theoretically, people should be able to express their preferences for radio or television stations through the rating procedures. But in the broadcasting system in this country there is strenuous competition amongst commercial broadcasters who are mainly trying to attract the listening or watching audiences who are the big spenders: that is, the people in whom advertisers are primarily interested. Therefore, there is a tendency towards overwhelming mediocrity in broadcasting as all the broadcasters try to get a slice of that one particular segment of the audience. As a consequence, minority interests are readily overlooked. 
We have only to look at the recently tabled annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to see the way in which broadcasting has developed over recent years. In the period from 1963 to 1976-77 the proportion of broadcasting taken up by light and popular music has increased from 48.9 per cent in 1963 to 56.5 per cent in 1 976-77. At the same time, the proportion of broadcasting which goes to advertising has increased significantly from 12.6 per cent to 15.9 per cent. The proportion of time which goes to the broadcasting of news has, in fact, diminished over that period. The broadcasting of sport has increased marginally. There is a tendency towards less serious matter being broadcast in Australia. I do not think that this is in the best interests of the community as a whole. As a consequence of this tendency towards mediocrity and the tendency to compete for the same sort of market, the opportunities for audiences and the community as a whole to express their preferences via the rating system is a highly qualified option. 
I come to the third way in which the public can participate in broadcasting to ensure that thenneeds are satisfied; that is via the licensing and re-licensing procedures. It is fundamentally important that the licensing and re-licensing procedures be as open as possible to allow for as much public participation as possible and for the public to have the greatest access to the procedures. It is only in this way that the holders of broadcasting licences can realistically come under the scrutiny of the community as a whole. The community might then be able to express its preferences to require some sort of change in the way in which broadcasters use their licences. 
I suspect that with the development of public broadcasting there will be a tendency to relax our efforts to scrutinise commercial broadcasters. I welcome, of course, the developments recently announced by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  in public broadcasting policy but I sound this note of caution. Because the air waves are being opened up to the public by providing community, educational and special licences, it could be argued that this will take the pressure off the holders of existing licences to satisfy the total needs of the community. If minority and other interests have access to their own broadcasting facilities some people may say that the commercial stations can have their heads and continue simply to follow what the Tribunal describes as their self-interest rather than the public interest. Any tendency in that direction would be extremely regrettable. I do not think that the development of public broadcasting should in any way lead to a relaxation of our scrutiny of the commercial broadcasters or, indeed, any existing broadcaster. With those few remarks I support the Bills. 
I welcome this opportunity to participate in a debate on the continuing and contentious issue of Commonwealth-State relations. I find the debate fascinating because it presents me with two dilemmas. The first is that politicians, in particular, seem to carry on as though there are two quite distinct electorates- one which elects State governments and another which elects Federal governments. So we find that, regardless of whether a person is a Federal or State politician, he pretends apparently to be appealing to quite different electorates. Either that is the case or there is one electorate which is experiencing a very advanced state of schizophrenia. There is a tendency for the States-righters at least to pretend that they can use their electorates to outweigh or overcome the influences of those people whom they call centralists. In fact, the most vigorous of the States-righters, far from having an electorate of their own which is distinct from the electorate which elects honourable members to this House, are in fact elected by exactly the same people, but under a much less democratic system. 
In Queensland and Western Australia we have some of the most outspoken so-called Statesrighters, yet they are elected under the most outrageously undemocratic malapportionment of electorates. They will do anything to cling to power. Their penchant for bashing the Australian Government is just one of the weapons in their armoury. 
I am not opposed to Premiers being made to be accountable for the money they spend. In fact, I think all of us in this place are entitled to become a little annoyed at being exposed to odium for raising revenue simply to hand it over to the State Premiers for them to indulge in their fantasies and obsessions. Therefore, I support the notion that the governments which raise revenue ought to be the ones which spend it. I recall very vividly that during the previous period that I was a member of this Parliament the Federal Labor Government made available funds for particular projects, but when I went back to Western Australia I found the Western Australian Liberal-Country Party Government claiming credit for making available those funds. At the same time, of course, it was vigorously supporting further tax cuts. 
The problem with the legislation which is before us- particularly Stage 2 of the new federalism policy, which will supplant it later- is that it leads to a situation where the national Government is going to lose entirely its ability to influence total demand in the economy. A very important way of influencing total demand, as everybody knows, is by raising and lowering income tax. If we hand over the final decision as to the level of income tax we will hand over the ability to influence directly total demand in the economy. That will have very serious consequences for economic policy in general. It will make the economy all that much more difficult to manage as far as the whole nation is concerned. 
That brings me to the second of the dilemmas with which the Commonwealth-State financial relations debate presents me. The divisions between State and Federal members of the Liberal Party are so serious that I do not know any more who anybody is. I shall give an example by quoting certain remarks by two Liberals- one a State member and the other a Federal member- from the State of Western Australia. I refer firstly to a speech made recently by the Premier of Western Australia when he said: 
Even in Australia, with abundant natural wealth, we pursue a grim, grey economic policy which, like so many others, could well continue to lead us through still more grim, grey years. 
He stated further: 
Current economic policy is inflicting demand starvation and perpetuating recession. 
He also stated: 
The present world recession will continue indefinitely, if present policies are giving us a programmed recession. 
I should like to compare that with a recent speech made in this chamber by the honourable member for Penh  (Mr McLean),  who is a Federal Liberal. During the course of a speech he said: 
I urge the Government, in particular the Treasurer ... to hold firm in the direction of the present economic strategy. 
He also said: 
Any resort to short term expediency at this stage would constitute a grave threat to long term employment revival. 
He stated further. 
The political temptation to respond to short term pressure is very strong but it ignores the long term economic realities faced by Australia. 
I want to counter those quite different points of view of two members of the Liberal Party in the same State. Referring again to the remarks of the Premier of Western Australia, he stated: 
Inflation will not be controlled by controlling demand: Every nation has enormous spare capacity waiting to be used. 
There we see two distinctly different policies. On the one hand we have the honourable member for Perth, presumably supporting this Governments policy, urging continued demand management and on the other we have the Premier of Western Australia talking about the need for expansion in the economy. The Premier went on to advocate increased government capital expenditure in much the same way as the Labor Party was advocating it before the last Federal election. He is quick to point out, of course, that he is not interested in expanding the role of government. I should like to refer to a quaint paragraph from his speech. He stated: 
I believe you will also agree that it would be unwise to create demand by expanding the size of government- putting more bottoms on soft seats- because this would simply inject one of the causes of inflation. 
That is a particularly curious statement for the Premier to make when one considers the recent history in Western Australia in regard to government employment. If one looks at the figures for the last three years- January 1976, January 1977 and January 1978- one will find that whilst private employment in Western Australia actually fell by 0.7 per cent, government employment in the same period increased by 20 per cent. So if there had not been that expansion in government employment in Western Australia we would have seen about 22,000 more people added to the unemployment situation in Western Australia, which at the moment numbers well over 30,000 people. The whole reason why the total civilian employment in Western Australia has increased by 5 per cent over that period is due solely to the increase which has taken place in the government sector. 
I should like to compare those figures with what has happened nationally. Nationally, government employment has increased by 4.6 per cent. This has to be compared with the increase of 20 per cent in Western Australia. So it is quite curious that the Premier of Western Australia in particular should be talking about his opposition to increasing the size of the government work force. Of course, I do not want to condemn everything the Premier said. As I said, I am able to welcome the Premier's conversion, belated as it is, to Keynesian economics. In fact, I also welcome his conversion to the economic policies of the Australian Labor Party. I suppose one could say that he goes further than the Australian Labor Party because in another part of his speech he said: 
It makes sense to move now- without any delay at allinto something like a five-year plan to improve the working assets of our nation . . . 
I would like to see the first five-year plan roll on into a longer term program that could roll on into the 1 990s. 
That statement seems to be shades of centrally planned economies, particularly of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In many respects the Premier goes further than the Labor Party in his advocacy of centrally planning the economy. However, the problems presented by the statements of the Premier are two-fold. Firstly, as a result of new federalism and of increasing the ability of the States to determine their own expenditure, particularly their own capital expenditure, we are likely to see Premiers such as the Western Australian Premier indulge themselves in white elephants such as the Ord River Dam. In fact, he mentioned in his speech that water resources would be one of the investments he would undertake. I point out that it is the Premier's stated intention to expand the investment on the Ord River to establish a sugar growing industry, the sugar from which would cost about $300 a tonne to produce. Presumably, it would then be placed on the world market at a price of approximately $160 a tonne. Whilst the Premier may be in favour of selective public capital expenditure, he does not always make the right decisions about what that expenditure should be m  ado r r. 
The second  point  is that his statemen's highlight the divergence of views between  ti,.  -:ate and Federal governments. Even though i might be able to support some of the ideas of the State Premier this points up the fact that in Western Australia a Liberal Premier wants to pursue a different economic policy to a national Liberal 
Government. Leaving aside the fact that both governments are Liberal, the point is that it is very important under those circumstances for the national economic policy to prevail. It seems to me to be inherent in the new federalism and in the proposals of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to increase the ability of the State governments to raise and spend money that a danger also exists for a Federal governent, whether it be Labor or Liberal, to lose control entirely of the direction of economic policy. If that were to happen it could work to the great disadvantage of the country as a whole. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-In this debate I want to address some remarks to the Whaling Amendment Bill, and in doing so I indicate, as the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  remarked, that the Opposition intends to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading. The amendment is in the following terms: 
Whilst not opposing the second reading, the House calls upon the Government to alter the Frost Royal Commission terms of reference, requiring the Commission to submit positive proposals to guarantee increased marine resources employment in the Albany region, prior to declaring a moratorium on whaling. 
As the House will know, the Government has established an inquiry into the whaling industry. One of the terms of reference of the inquiry states: 
The Inquiry shall in particular examine: 
whether Australian whaling should continue or cease; 
Yet at the same time as it requires the Commission to examine that question, it pays little regard to the consequences of a decision to cease whaling in Australia. For instance, the only reference to the employment aspect is included in term of reference No. 3 (f) which states that the inquiry shall examine 'any consequences for Australian employment and industrial development, particularly in Albany'. However, there is no requirement for the inquiry to examine the question of alternative employment for the people now engaged in the industry. It is the Opposition 's view that it would be quite wrong simply to wipe out an industry without making adequate arrangements for those who are employed in that industry. In Albany at the moment the whaling industry sustains employment sufficient to support about 100 families. This is not a question that can be taken lightly. In a town the size of Albany the employment of those families is indeed an important question. It may be true, as you,  Mr Drummond,  said the other day, that the people of Albany are opposed to the closing down of the whaling industry. I was in Albany in mid- 1977 at the time of the demonstrations that were mounted against the whaling industry and I attended a public meeting which considered the question of whaling in Albany. Whilst I think it is true that the people of Albany want to retain the jobs that are concerned with the whaling industry, I am not convinced that they necessarily want to see a continuation of the killing of whales. 
In fact the whale is almost the trademark of Albany. When one drives down the approach road to Albany one sees everywhere whales smiling at passers by. They are always portrayed as being friendly, happy and harmless, so I do not think that the portrayal of whales as such means that the people of Albany are intent on destroying them. I am sure that they would favour the retention of the jobs without the killing of the whales. This question I think therefore presents us with an excellent chance to engage in an exercise of applied conservation. It seems to me that conservation issues are all too often portrayed as being a conflict between narrow minded antiprogress fanatics and development maniacs who are interested only in jobs regardless of the consequences. In most issues it is not easy for these opponents to reach agreement. However, it is my belief that we will never effectively be able to encourage sensible conservation policies unless those policies have the total support of the community. They will never succeed over the objections of workers or others who see themselves or their livelihoods being threatened by them. It is hardly necessary to add that this sort of problem, the problem between conservation policies and the perceived threat seen by workers, is a greater problem in times of high unemployment and /or when the conservation policies in question involve the taking away of existing jobs rather than the prevention of the opening up of new ones. 
In Albany, however, I believe it should be possible to avoid this sort of conflict. Not only do I believe that the people of Albany are not antiwhale but also I believe that it would be possible to find other jobs to replace those jobs in the whaling industry. For instance, it was recently reported by  Mr Mullins,  the Director of the Southern Ocean Fish Processors Pty Ltd, that his company intended to provide employment for 150 people before the end of the year. The company currently employs about 30 people and it will be increasing employment in its plant in order to process more fish.  Mr Mullins  went on to say that the company had decided to expand because of the potential of the fishing industry in the area. He also said that this expansion was just a first phase and that the company saw a possibility of doubling its trawling fleet in the future. 
There may indeed be other opportunities for increasing the fishing industry in Albany. 
As well I think another method in which employment could be created in Albany would be by way of promotion of research into whales and other sea mammals. The amount of research into these creatures has been far from adequate and the results are extremely dubious. Therefore I think Australia could make a real contribution to international debate on this question by encouraging research, and there seems to be no better place for it than Albany. It may also be possible at certain times of the year to arrange for tourists to see the whales in their natural surroundings. I have noticed that many people take a rather bizarre interest in seeing whales being cut up at the Cheynes Beach whaling station and perhaps they or other people would be prepared to pay someone to take them out to sea to look at live whales. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that my preference is for the closing down of the Cheynes Beach whaling station, once the interests of the current employees have been appropriately safeguarded. The reasons that I say this are fourfold: Firstly, I am not satisfied that enough is known about the ecological effects of killing whales in Australian waters or in other parts of the world; secondly, I do not believe that the International Whaling Commission is effectively pursuing a POliCY of conservation of whales, despite its protestations to the contrary; thirdly, I believe that Australia cannot encourage, as it pretends to do, a stronger line by the IWC in the conservation of whales whilst it permits whaling off its own shores; and, fourthly, I believe that most, if not all, of the products which are now obtained from whales can be obtained from substitute products. 
Of course it goes without saying that the current level of whaling is not nearly as disastrous as it was more than 100 years ago. For instance, between 1820 and 1860 when the Americans particularly were dominating the industry about 900 whaling vessels were operating in the world. The United States industry itself employed about 70,000 people. It is not easy to say what the consequences of that massive operation were; in fact most scientists maintain that it is very difficult indeed to obtain reliable estimates of whale populations throughout the world but reasonably reliable estimates suggest that, of a whale population of about four million before whaling started in earnest, it has been reduced to about half in 1975. Many people claim that this population- at approximately two million whales now existing- is probably optimistic. 
However, it is certainly true that the figures are almost certainly deceptive. 
The selectivity of the whaling industry has caused a proportionately much greater reduction in the population of certain species, especially the much larger baleen species. For example, while the worldwide population of whales has been reduced by nearly 50 per cent, some baleen species in the Antarctic have been reduced by as much as 96 per cent. The figures showing population reduction do not reflect the reduction in the whale biomass. Selective depletion of blue and fin whales has caused an 85 per cent reduction in the total baleen biomass in the Antarctic, from an estimated 43 million tons to 6.6 million tons. 
They are reliable, I assure you. Of course the argument of the International Whaling Commission is that a whaling industry is able to be sustained by having regard to a concept known as the 'maximum sustainable yield'. This concept tries to take account of the mortality rates of the whale population and by comparing that with the recruitment rate, is able to establish the yield which allows whales to be taken without drastically reducing their numbers or at least without threatening the survival of the species. However, I think it is fair to say that there is a great deal of contention about this concept and its applicability, particularly to certain species. As I have already said, it is very difficult indeed to substantiate the total whale population. It is also difficult to substantiate what is the mortality rate and the recruitment rate. Most of the methods which are used in determining these factors are based on sitings, taggings and data such as the catch per unit effort, which effectively measures how long it takes the whale chasers to sustain a kill. There seem to be serious limitations in the theory which was enunciated by the International Whaling Commission. I think it is a very dubious concept indeed for us to rely on if we are concerned, as the Australian Government says it is, and as the Whaling Commission says it is, to avoid the extinction of all whale species that are left. 
Another point to which I want to refer is the question of the behaviour of the IWC. The argument goes that it is better to have some sort of conservation enforced by the IWC rather than no conservation which apparently would lead to the wholesale slaughter of whales throughout the world, particularly by Japan and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. However, I think if we critically examine the behaviour of the IWC it would cast a great doubt on its ability to sustain a proper conservation policy. For instance, we saw that the IWC met in June last year and at that time recommended a quota of 763 sperm whales for the northern hemisphere. Yet a few months later the same IWC lifted the quota for sperm whales in the northern hemisphere to 6,444. In a few months we saw an increase of 745 per cent simply on the basis of what Japan pretended was new data being presented to the IWC. Several of the delegates who were opposed to this increase in the quota poured scorn on the new data that was presented by Japan, alleging that scientists had falsified information and made wild generalisations about the reduced juvenile mortality without the slightest evidence to support their case. I think therefore that we have to be very circumspect about any temptation to embrace the policies of the IWC or to support the notion that the IWC and only the IWC can protect whale species. 
The third point I want to make is that if the IWC is not adequately ensuring the conservation of whales throughout the world it seems to me important that Australia take on for itself a role in this process. I think we can follow the lead of the United States of America which in 1972 passed the Marine Mammal Protection Act which, among other things, makes it a crime for United States citizens to disturb or harass marine mammals anywhere in the world. The Act also prohibits any material harvesting of any species of these creatures without the approval of a special scientific committee. The United States also forbids the importation of whale products into the country and bans such products from interstate commerce. The United States, by the way, has been urging upon the world a 10-year global moratorium simply to allow for improved and increased research to justify any further killing of whales. 
This suggestion of the United States is opposed by Japan and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the two major whaling nations which account for something like 85 per cent of the world catch. Whilst it is true that Australia is a small whaling nation by comparison and indeed, Cheynes Beach often has difficulty in fulfilling the relatively small quota which it is given, it seems to me that Australia cannot raise its voice in protest against whaling or support the notion of conservation of whales while still allowing a whaling station to be maintained on its shores. I think therefore that whatever the consequences for Australia might be, we have an obligation to support the campaign for the preservation of whale species throughout the world and a necessary precondition for that is the closing down of our own station. 
The fourth point that I want to make is that I believe that most if not all of the products which are now gained from whales can be replaced by substitutes. I suppose this is particularly relevant in the case of the whale which Australia is killing, the sperm whale. We find that the baleen whale is worth approximately $190 a ton compared with only $75 a ton for the sperm whale. It is further relevant, I suppose, that the baleen whales, the products of which are more highly priced, constitute approximately 77 per cent of the value of the world catch. The most important product which is derived from sperm whales, that is the whales Australia hunts and kills, is sperm oil. Unlike whale oil which is also gained from these and other whales, sperm oil is inedible and is more like a liquid wax. Sperm oil was widely used as an illuminating fuel in the 19th century because it did not smoke. Sperm whale meat has a very strong taste and is generally not eaten except in some local areas of Japan. Almost all parts of sperm whales are made into by-products, two of the better known being the teeth and the ambergris. It is estimated that the total value of whale products in 1972 was of the order of $ 100m. But approximately 95 per cent of the whales caught in recent years were caught by ships from developed countries and the products were almost entirely consumed by developed countries. 
The sperm oil and related substances come mainly from the sperm whale's head. Indeed, it is an amazing substance. It can be added to lubricants for everything from automatic transmissions to machine tools and it will perform superbly, even under conditions of high heat and pressure. Apparently this unique substance, the sperm oil, is the one which is most difficult to replace and whilst I know that you,  Mr Drummond,  have referred to the prospects of the jojoba plant, I think that you dismissed it rather too quickly. There is a substantial amount of research being carried out even in Australia on this plant. It is important because the oil which comes from the seed is very similar and has many of the properties of the sperm oil of the sperm whale. Whilst it is not yet a commercial proposition to go into the manufacture of oil from the jojoba plant, I think it is something which is well worth studying to a greater extent than we are doing at the moment. If it were proved to be an economically viable substitute for sperm oil it seems to me that it would remove one of the remaining obstacles which stand in the way of the closing down of the industry in Australia. Whilst I support the question of Australia taking a firmer stand on the preservation of whales and encouraging other nations to stop or reduce drastically their whale kill, I want to make it perfectly clear that in my opinion the most important factor to be taken into account so far as Australia is concerned is the future of the employees who are now employed at Cheynes Beach. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, concerns the requirement of the taxation authorities, under section 26 (e) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, for persons living in employer provided or employer subsidised accommodation to include the amount of the real subsidy in their assessable income. As section 26 (e) requires the inclusion in assessable income not only of housing subsidies but also of any money, goods and other benefits received in relation to a taxpayer's employment, what action has the Commissioner of Taxation taken to require business executives to include in their assessable incomes the value of such fringe benefits as subsidised holidays, recreation, life insurance, health costs and home improvements? Can the Treasurer also inform the House whether the Prime Minister is now required to include in his assessable income the housing subsidy he receives through his free use of the recently refurbished Lodge? 
-We are debating the Customs Tariff Validation Bill which is a piece of legislation that puts into effect decisions which flow from recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. The inquiries of the Commission which precede those recommendations are reviews of individual industries. There is very great difficutly in assessing their importance to Australia or to economic policy generally because the IAC is compelled to make those reviews in the absence of any overall industrial or manpower policy. It is therefore difficult for us to have a very sensible debate on this subject prior to the Government coming out with an industrial and manpower policy. 
Before proceeding I want to refer to a couple of matters raised by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson).  He criticised the Opposition and said we did not understand the IAC and its supposedly independent role. We have been at pains to protect the independent role of the IAC. I remind the honourable member for Brisbane that it was a Labor Government which established the IAC- and established it with a very high degree of independence. Independence is something which the current Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  absolutely fails to understand. He attempted to influence the IAC by brow-beating it. When that did not work he changed the law to try to instruct the Commission to make the sorts of recommendations which he finds palatable. When that was not enough he moved to change the personnel of the Commission to make sure that the people who are making those recommendations are sufficiently compliant to be stood over by him and his Ministers. I refer briefly to the recent advertisements which have been placed in newspapers asking for people to apply for the position of commissioner on the Commission. One does not need a very great degree of wit to realise that this exercise is based on the assumption that the Prime Minister can purge from the IAC those people who are currently giving sensible and independent advice to the Government and can replace them by stooges who will give the Government the sorts of recommendations and advice it wants. So much for the independent role of the IAC and the understanding of it by the honourable member for Brisbane. 
The whole debate on industrial policy is made very much more difficult by the crude attempts by the Prime Minister to portray anybody who disagrees with him or with his ideas on this question as an industrial iconoclast. Anybody who suggests any structural change in Australian industry is portrayed as simply being interested in eliminating the jobs of workers. I suspect that the Prime Minister is going to live to reap the harvest of this gross misrepresentation which he has been pursuing for the last two years because in recent days, as the Government prepares itself for the multilateral trade negotiations we have seen that it has been required to review its approach to tariff policy. We find that the Prime Minister is being forced to consider a proposition which will involve Australia in reducing its tariff by about 40 per cent over a period of eight years from 1980. 
-I might say to the honourable member for Moore that it might be a good idea. What I am saying is that the Prime Minister is going to find it very difficult to convince anybody about the good sense of any proposal such as that because of the particular approach he has taken over the last couple of years. He has been so one-eyed and so obsessed about this question that he is going to find it very difficult to convince anybody about the need for any reform of protective policy in this country. But the great tragedy about this whole question as Australia nears the multilateral trade negotiations is that we are considering a review of our level of tariffs not as a result of a review of the needs of industry and manpower in Australia but simply because we are being stood over by other countries. We are being told that if we want access to markets for our agricultural products, particularly in Europe, we will be forced to review our approach to industrial protection. Any review of industrial protection in this country is not going to be easy, but it will be very much harder if the objective becomes the lowering of tariffs as a result of other countries requiring us to adopt some son of programmed policy on this question. 
We should not be simply saying that a reduction in tariffs is an end in itself; we should be saying that the important goal is to create a situation in Australia whereby we have a strong manufacturing sector capable of providing jobs for Australian workers. If that involves in some sense a review of our tariff policy then so be it. But let us not approach this question because Europe and other countries are insisting that we reduce tariffs. Let us not respond on that basis. Rather we should respond on the more sensible basis of a reform of manufacturing and manpower policies in Australia. 
We need a sensible set of policies which approach these matters in a sensible way. The policies should not simply be aimed at encouraging the sort of change which is necessary in Australian industry to promote the growth of the work force; more importantly, they should include policies which ensure that manpower in Australia is appropriately cared for. There are two requirements which have to be observed in this regard. Firstly, the work force which is available in Australia has to have the appropriate skills and be appropriately located for that changed industry. Secondly, any workers who are displaced as a result of changed circumstances must be re-employed. 
However, the Government's record in developing sensible industrial and manpower policies is indeed abysmal. If we look at recent trends in employment, particularly in the manufacturing sector, we find that in the last year things were worse than at any time over the last six years. If we look just briefly at employment in the private sector of the community we find that it is now lower than it was six year ago. In 1 977 there were fewer people in the private sector than there were in 1971. The most rapid decline in this sector occurred during 1976-77. If we look at employment in manufacturing industry we find that there are now 1 1 per cent fewer people engaged in this industry than there were in 1977. This has happened despite the protestations of this Government that it is it and it alone which is prepared to stand by the interests of manufacturing industry and the private sector. If we look at the forecasts in respect of the next couple of years we find that things are likely to get even worse in the manufacturing sector. 
The Government really has no excuse for its abysmal record as far as this matter is concerned because the Whitlam Labor Government handed on a plate to the Fraser Government a ready-made review of manufacturing industry as a result of the inquiry by the Jackson committee. The Government's only response has been its laughable White Paper which essentially says that everything is too difficult to tackle at the moment and it will sit on its hands until such time as economic conditions improve generally. Then the Government might give some consideration to the question of an industrial policy. Quite clearly this is ludicrous. The longer the Government does nothing the worse this will become. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  quite rightly said, the position in the manufacturing sector is likely to continue to get worse unless the Government does take some action. Indeed the economy generally is likely to get worse until something is done about the position of manufacturing industry. We cannot expect a recovery in employment if there is no recovery in the private sector, and particularly in the manufacturing sector. 
When we hear that the only positive policy which the Government is entertaining at the moment is summarily to reduce tariffs at the behest of European countries one can only recoil with anguish. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also importantly identifies that it is the area of investment, both its level and direction, which we ought to be concerned about as we proceed to adopt a sensible industrial policy. It is no good simply saying that a slight increase in the level of private investment in Australia has necessarily been advantageous to the work force as a whole. We have seen in recent times that most of that investment has simply been to replace labour with capital and as a result reduce the number of jobs. 
The great weakness of the investment allowance, which was introduced by this Government as one of the few measures which was even designed, even though it did not work, to do something about the appalling level of investment in Australia, in fact was counterproductive in many respects. Not only did the investment allowance give subsidies in relation to decisions which had already been taken in advance of the subsidy being available but also it encouraged investment in those areas in which workers lost their jobs. When one bears in mind that it is the workers among others who are providing those subsidies via their taxes one can see the stupidity of the whole question. Surely if the taxpayers are providing funds for these investment subsidies the Government, on behalf of the taxpayers, has a responsibility to ensure that that investment takes place in a direction that will lead to an expansion rather than an elimination of jobs. 
Let me refer to another matter. It seems to me- I think the honourable member for Adelaide has probably alluded to this matterthat the Industries Assistance Commission would be much more profitably engaged in considering the long-term questions of industrial policy in Australia rather than simply conducting ad hoc inquiries which are limited to the extent that the 
Commission is forced to conduct these inquiries and make recommendations in the absence of any overall government industrial policy. The IAC is in a hopeless position if, when making recommendations in relation to specific proposals in regard to specific industries, it cannot at the same time relate those recommendations to other recommendations which it makes in respect of other industries. So in the absence of the Government having an overall industrial policy it might be better if it instructs the IAC to spend more of its time considering these longer term questions in the hope that finally the Government might be encouraged to adopt a sensible industrial and manpower policy. 
-The changes included in clauses 1 to 7 of this Bill call into very serious question the sincerity of the Government's claim of commitment to trade union training. The changes put in doubt, and very serious doubt, the continued effectiveness and indeed the very viability of the Trade Union Training Authority, and it is just possible that this is the Government's real intent. Maybe the Government does not want TUTA to continue doing the excellent work it has accomplished in less than three years. Maybe the Government is pursuing a devious course of sabotage. 
Unfortunately the Government has kept the Authority in a state of suspended animation for the last year, firstly by the establishment of an unnecessary inquiry and now by the introduction of these unnecessary changes. The consequence of this has been that a small band of highly dedicated, highly creative and extraordinarily hard working people, who over the last two and a half years have brought into being an institution which has been highly successful and is highly regarded, now find themselves discouraged and frustrated. For what purposes? What were the complaints that led to the inquiry? They were never stated at the time, and indeed the inquiry was able only to point to a number of trivial defects in its report. What are the new complaints which have brought forward these new proposals for change not recommended by the inquiry? Where is the evidence of the need for the so-called improved administration and improved effectiveness? If anything was more calculated to reduce the effectiveness of TUTA it was the harassment to which the Authority has been subjected by the Government over the last 12 months. 
The justification put forward by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for the changes is nowhere more paltry and dishonest than in relation to the reconstruction of the governing body of TUTA. The proposals contained in these clauses consist of the following elements: Firstly, reducing the role of the Australian Council to one merely of advice; secondly, the introduction of an all powerful Executive Board; thirdly, the creation of a politically appointed position of National Director; and, fourthly, the introduction of new interests into the membership of the controlling bodies including employer representatives. Who proposed these changes? What problems are these changes seeking to overcome? Where is the evidence, for instance, of financial irresponsibility or administrative irresponsibility which required these changes? Where is the justification for them? Search though I might through all the reports and all the evidence which has been placed before me I can find no evidence that sustains these proposed changes except in the isolated instance relating to the National Director and even then with qualifications. The Minister tries to obscure this lack of justification by claiming that comments were sought from and discussions were held with, firstly, the Australian Council, secondly, the National Labour Consultative Committee and, thirdly, the peak union councils. 
I suggest that the Minister had better produce the evidence to substantiate the claim that these discussions and these consultations had taken place because I am reliably advised that the Australian Council of the Authority has never been directly consulted by the Minister and that in fact the Minister has refused repeated requests by the Council to meet with it and to discuss these proposals. The matter was raised with the NLCC, but only at very short notice. Bearing in mind that members of the NLCC are representatives of various organisations one cannot expect that body to have a reasoned discussion without sufficient notice being given to the bodies which its members represent so that they can consider the proposals. The discussions with the peak union councils were not initiated by the Minister, as could be construed from the Minister's second reading speech. Rather, they were forced on him. In any event even if those discussions did take place, even if they were constructive, it is not clear whether any of those bodies supported this set of changes. 
These changes strike at the very heart of TUTA, its role and its method of operation. The independence of TUTA, far from being preserved is now threatened. TUTA is now being thrown into the unloving embrace of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, which I suspect is where the Department has always wanted it. No longer will the preferred representatives of the unions even be assured of membership on the Board. Whilst there will be some union representation it is perfectly clear that the Government can avoid appointing the preferred representatives of the trade union movement. Even then no longer will those trade union representatives be in a position of control. This is one of the unnecessary changes which will threaten the continued existence of the Authority, because it is the control of TUTA which has led to the development of the excellent relationship between the trade union movement and the Authority. 
The basis of the relationship between the trade union movement and the Authority is one of trust. The trade union movement recognises that TUTA is an organisation almost unique in that it understands the problems of the trade union movement, and its job is to do something about those problems. There may be some unions which prefer a docile membership. I suspect- in fact I know- that there are many more which despair at the lack of interest and participation by so many of their members. TUTA is able to do something about that problem, to mention just one. Practically all the unionists who I know who have attended trade union training courses have come back to their unions better equipped to participate, and to encourage others to participate in their unions ' activities. However, with the proposed change to the legislation I really wonder whether that sort of relationship will be able to be continued, and whether the sort of involvement that unions have encouraged in TUTA will be able to continue. 
I want to mention specifically a question which points to a very clear case of misrepresentation by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in both his second reading speech and his reply to the second reading debate. He claimed in his second reading speech, at least by implication if not specifically, that it was the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Trade Union Training which was the justification for including employers on the controlling body of TUTA. If we look carefully at the report of that inquiry we find that the only reference to employer participation is the recommendation that there should be closer and greater involvement by employers in the actual training process of the authority. But nowhere in the section of the report dealing with the role and membership of the Authority is any reference at all made to the question of employer representation. I believe that throughout this debate we have seen the Government pursuing a course in which it is trying to justify its position on the basis of arguments which cannot be substantiated. It pretends to rely on the support of the Committee of Inquiry for these changes. It pretends to rely on the support of the trade union movement. In fact, when one looks closely at this matter one can see no support for those claims. 
-The problem of the Government's insensitivity, which has always been acknowledged, now is becoming a major threat. The Government is insensitive to criticism of its failings; it is insensitive to the consequences of its policies; it is insensitive to international opinion; and it is insensitive to recent suggestions which have been put forward for changes in its economic policy. I was interested to note that in relation to international opinion the  Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was prepared to dismiss the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development strategy for a global recovery and yet was prepared to embrace the conclusions of the OECD study of Australia. It is worth pointing out, in relation to the latter study, that that document is heavily doctored by Treasury officials. They visit the OECD in Europe and make sure that in its studies, and reviews of and statements about the Australian economy, it holds to the Government line and does not do or say anything which would be an embarrassment to the Government. Instead of taking any notice of this sort of criticism, the Government just holds maniacally to its own obsessions and fantasies. 
The point, of course, is that the Australian economy now is further from the goals set for it by this Government two and a half years ago than it was at the time it came to power. It is not a question of the Government failing to oversee an improvement in the economy; in fact, in many respects the economy has worsened. I do not want to go over again the very important points that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made when he mentioned, for instance, that there are nearly 100,000 fewer jobs in the private sector than there were when this Government came to power. However, I do want to refer to one point. During Question Time today the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  indicated that many businesses had a more optimistic outlook now than they had late last year. I refer to one of the Government's own documents prepared by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in which 39 industry groups were studied. Of those 39 industry groups, 19 believed, in relation to the forecast for future employment, that employment would remain stable; seven thought there would be an improvement; and 12 thought there would be a decline. Therefore out of the 39 there are something like 3 1 that thought things would either get worse or remain much the same. This is a forecast not of a private organisation, or of the Labor Party, but of one of the Government's own departments. 
The Government not only fails to realise that it is getting further away from its own economic targets, but again today we found that it fails to acknowledge that it is its policies that are responsible for that failure and no one else's. It has been pursuing a policy, as we saw again today, of trying to lay the blame in other directions. We saw again the tired old argument of trying to blame the former Government for the problems which the economy still encounters, for the worse problems that it encounters than when the former Government was in power. How can one say that actions taken three years ago by a former government are responsible for the deterioration which has taken place in the last two years? Since the Hayden Budget which offered the promise of recovery, we have had two Liberal Budgets which have taken the Australian economy further and further into recession. 
Again we had the Treasurer talking about wages policy and blaming wage increases as being responsible for the continuing recession and for the continuing unemployment. The Treasurer seems to proceed on the basis that wages are unrelated to income and that income is unrelated to demand. What the Treasurer has to acknowledge is that since this Government has been attacking wages the purchasing power of the average pay packet has declined by something like $12 a week and if the average worker has $12 a week less to spend it cannot be said that he is able to maintain the demand which will fully employ this economy. One cannot simply say that wages policy can be seen in isolation from the whole question of total demand and the need to maintain disposable incomes. 
The Government says it is a pity that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has not taken any notice of its arguments. Perhaps the Commission would have taken notice of those arguments if they had been backed up by a few accurate statistics rather than highly dubious ones. In fact, it has not been the unions which have torn holes in the Government arguments so much as the Bench itself. Time and time again the Bench has taken to task the advocate for the Government and has torn holes in the argument which that advocate has been putting up on behalf of the Government. Perhaps if the Government would tell the truth in front of the Commission it might be taken more seriously. 
Though we did not hear it today we hear all too often the suggestion that it is industrial disputation which is responsible for continuing unemployment and for sluggish investment. We find, however, that industrial disputation is at a 10-year low. In February of this year there were fewer industrial disputes, fewer days lost, than for any February period in the last 10 years. Indeed, if one is talking about industrial disputation discouraging investment, in any event we find that in recent times the greater the level of investment that does take place the more jobs are eliminated in the private sector. So one cannot simply extend from an increase in investment an increase in jobs because in recent times we have seen that quite the contrary has occurred. 
We have also seen the Government attack persistently the Industries Assistance Commission for its particular policies. We have seen the Government abusing the Commission. We have seen the Government change the law to try to force the Commission to give the Government the sort of recommendation it wants to receive, and recently we have seen an attempt by the Government to stack the Commission to make it more compliant and more easily intimidated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The fact is, however, that it is in those highly protected industries that we have seen the jobs fall most drastically. We have seen that in the two most highly protected industries the number of jobs has fallen twice as quickly as for manufacturing industry as a whole. And not only that; we find that in those highly protected industries the wages of workers are something like $30 a week less than they are for manufacturing industry as a whole. So under this Government not only do workers receive less wages but the security of their jobs is less as well. 
It is amusing under these circumstances- or frightening I suppose- that the Prime Minister takes this opportunity to remove himself from the scene, to go overseas in an attempt to bring the rest of the world back from what he sees as the brink of economic crisis. The Prime Minister has looked around the world and has noticed that some countries are talking about mildly reflating their economies. So he has set off as a one-man rescue operation to prevent those countries from taking that sort of action. One sees that he will be so isolated or he sees himself that he will be so isolated in that endeavour that he has had to take with him an enormous entourage of advisers, ladies-in-waiting and assorted hangers-on, large enough to double as a cheer squad on appropriate occasions. This latest trip of the Prime Minister is just another excess of an excessive Prime Minister. One would have thought that he could have stayed home and helped the Treasurer, whom we all know to be untried in his task of trying to put together a Budget for this year. We also notice that the anguish and torture of this task, which has been thrown on the Treasurer's shoulders, shows continually on his face. 
The trouble is that this Government sees economic policy as simply being an abstract procedure, simply an accounting exercise, and the Government has no truck with any social goals or human aspirations or even with the consequences for people of its policies. The Government is not concerned about the fact that there are more than an extra 100,000 people out of work than when it took office. It is not concerned that one in 10 of those people who are on unemployment benefits has been on those benefits for 12 months or more, or that three out of 10 of them have been on unemployment benefits for six months or more. This Government is creating a new class of people who have to rely on unemployment benefits as their permanent source of income. But that, of course, is the least of this Government's concern. In the last few months it has simply engaged in harassment of those unemployed, whereby 200,000 people have been interrogated by officials from the Government and in New South Wales alone 30 per cent of those interrogated have lost their benefits in a monumentally indiscriminate exercise which has been exposed by the fact that half of those removed from benefits were later reinstated to their just entitlement. This Government has no concern about the consequences of its policies for people. It is about time that it listened not only to the Opposition but also to other people in the community who are urging change. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Productivity. I refer to recent reports that his Department is investigating the possibility of developing industry in Australia centred on locally developed technology. Is it a fact that Australia leads the world in the field of low grade solar energy technology, is well advanced in the field of high grade solar energy technology and has made important advances in the field of wind power technology? Is the Minister aware that the International Energy Agency is currently conducting investigations into the development of these energy alternatives? Is Australia prevented from participating in these studies because it is not one of the 19 countries which are members of the IEA? Will the Minister urge the Government to reconsider the question of Australia's membership of the IEA to allow Australian scientists and companies to participate in this important work? 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) Has an assessment been made of security arrangements at the Repatriation General Hospital, Hollywood, Western Australia; if so, who made the assessment. 
Are the current security arrangements considered adequate. 
Is his Department acting to improve the security arrangements by the employment of extra staff. 
If so, (a) what will be the classification of the extra staff, (b) when will they be appointed, (c) will the extra staff be appointed from outside the Department and (d) what will be the implication of such appointments for the Government 's staff ceiling policy. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 5 May 1 978: 
In relation to each of the following Western Australian mining projects, (a) Agnew Mining (Teutonic Bore coppernickel mine), (b) Alcoa (Wagerup alumina refinery), (c) Alumax (Mitchell Plateau bauxite mining and alumina refinery, (d) Alwest (Worsley alumina refinery), (e) Amax and Partners (Forrestania nickel project), (f) Anglo American (Sally Malay copper-nickel prospect), (g) Aquitaine (Sorby Hills zinc prospect), (h) BHP (Deepdale iron ore), (i) EZ Industries (Golden Grove copper prospect), (j) Goldsworthy Mining (Area C iron ore), (k) Kimberley Ventures (Koongie Park copper deposits), (1) Hamersley Iron (Expansion program), (m) Mt Newman Mining (Expansion program), (n) NW Shelf Developments (Natural gas), (o) Robe River (Expansion program ), ( p) Texasgulf-Hanwright (Marandoo iron ore), (q) Western Titanium (GabbinKoorda (kaolin deposits and Capel ilmenite), (r) Western Mining (Yeelirrie uranium), (s) Minefields Exploration (Mt Mulgine wolfram prospect) and (t) Agnew-Clough (Coates Siding vanadium deposits), (i) when is development expected to commence, (ii) what is the estimated investment involved, (iii) what will be the size of the construction workforce and (iv) what will be the size of the permanent operational workforce. 
It is encouraging to hear the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  embracing so many of the ideas of the Opposition as far as the need for an expansionary economic policy is concerned. As far as his remarks about Lord Keynes are concerned and the politicians with whom Lord Keynes came in contact, I am happy to say that I was not alive in 1 9 1 1 . Unfortunately, some of the honourable members opposite were. 
The honourable member for Dundas was not. 
-I would not know. Perhaps,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you could tell me. The measure we are debating is a direct consequence of the 1978 Budget. It is an attempt to take care of the anticipated consequences flowing from the dishonesty of the Budget documents. Together, this Bill and the Budget documents themselves mark a new low point in Australian politics. Together they confirm that under this Government promises mean nothing, firm commitments mean nothing and solemn undertakings mean nothing. As a result of this Government's performance people could be excused for never again wanting to trust politicians. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  through his cheating, his dishonesty, his alleged forgetfulness and his downright deceit, has lowered us all in the minds of the people of Australia. Serious as that is it is not nearly as serious as the practice of this Government of fabricating official information and official documents. Now for at least the second year this Government has instructed the bureaucracy to 'cook the books' in order to sanctify the Government's lies. As a result the Budget Papers- once highly valued, once highly regarded and once highly trusted- must now be placed in the same category as prime ministerial promises. The Budget Papers are highly suspect. They are suspect not because the Treasury wants to mislead us but because it has been told by the Government that it must adjust its estimates of outlays and receipts so that they conform with the obsessive fantasies of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  about economic policies. 
The particular problem is that the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have great difficulty with arithmetic. Not being the sort of people who can move logically from one step to another when faced with the simple exercise of addition, they start at the wrong end. They start with the answer and they try to concoct the components so that they measure up to that answer. The particular answer which the Prime Minister and the Treasurer wanted to end up with was a deficit of below $3 billion. Apparently they decided that a deficit of $2.8 billion was near enough. All the efforts of the Government had to be strained to ensure that whatever else happened the bottom line figure- the deficit figure- did not exceed the magical figure of $3 billion. 
The Government has been telling us for years that it is necessary to avoid having large deficits. It is probably worth while to recount the lectures which the Prime Minister used to give us on the question of the ravages of inflation and its effect on tax increases. We all remember that one year the Prime Minister plucked out of the air the idea of tax indexation as a solution to this problem. But, of course, that tax indexation was applied in full for only one year. It then became inconvenient for the Prime Minister. It did not please him to continue with tax indexation. So it has now been dropped or so amended as to be unrecognisable. As far as deficits are concerned the Prime Minister also has found his obsession with low deficits now to be inconvenient. But the transfer cannot be made in the one step. So it has to be pretended that the deficit is not as large as it really is. It will be recalled that a few years ago the Prime Minister portrayed a deficit as being like a bank overdraft in a household budgetsomething which had to be paid back one day or another. That sort of economic nonsense would not have gained him a pass in any economics course that I know of but it was still something which the Prime Minister clung to strenuously. As I say, it has now become inconvenient for the Prime Minister to pursue the objective of having low deficits and little by little he has had to abandon that piece of economic stupidity. Unfortunately he has not been prepared to make a clean breast of it. So we are again embroiled in a subterfuge to try to obscure the reality. 
In the 1977-78 Budget the Prime Minister was determined to demonstrate that the deficit then would be lower than the deficit for the year before. We are informed by recently available reports that he told Treasurer Lynch that the deficit should be $2.2 billion and that the then Treasurer, with the assistance of the Treasury, should doctor the estimates to make sure that that objective was achieved and that that was the deficit which appeared in the Budget documents. Treasurer Lynch reportedly objected and the Treasury objected, but in the end they both succumbed. In the event the deficit at the end of that financial year, which the Budget estimated at $2.2 billion, was in fact $3.3 billion. It had blown out by 50 per cent on the official figure which was printed in the once trusted Budget documents. It is now clear that that increase was not unexpected. But in order to please the Prime Minister, in order to enable the bottom line to give the answer which he wanted, the estimates of receipts and outlays had to be doctored. I suppose that, like anybody who first tells a lie and gets away with it, the Government has found it even easier to do it again this year. The Government has again put the Treasury on the rack this year. It has again applied the thumb screws until the Treasury has agreed to concoct the estimates of receipts and outlays so that they again comply with the answer which the Prime Minister sought. He has ensured that the Treasury's arithmetic complies with the Prime Minister's distinctive calculus. 
This Loan Bill is a necessary consequence of that procedure. It is a way of anticipating the consequences which the Government has refused to acknowledge in the Budget documents. In fact, they have gone to great lengths to obscure them. This Bill is in fact an admission of the lie. My colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has gone to some length to point out the ways in which the Budget deficit is likely to exceed the anticipated deficit as set out in the official publications. He has mentioned a number of areas in which quite clearly the estimates are wrong. I suggest that the deception falls into three major categories. The first is the estimates relating to the performance of the Australian economy in the forthcoming months. For instance, as the honourable member for Adelaide has said, the Budget estimate is that there will be a 4 per cent growth rate in the nonfarm sector of the community. As the honourable member said- I think quite correctly- even the most optimistic estimates by anyone else put that figure at 3 per cent, not 4 per cent. So we have a fanciful growth rate which automatically distorts the Budget figures. A further example of this deliberately rosy estimate of the projected performance of the economy is in relation to the projected revenue from pay-as-you-earn tax receipts. The Budget estimate of the level of income earning is very difficult indeed to justify. I do not think that the Government really believes for a moment that that rate of increase in earnings will be achieved. 
In the area of receipts from customs duty, an assumption is made about exchange rates which, on recent past performance, is very difficult to accept. So we see in those three areas that, as a consequence of making a deliberately rosy projection about the performance of the economy in order to put the best possible face on it, the Government has intruded into the Budget Estimates quite false assumptions. 
The second area of deception is that of deliberate deceit. For instance, on any analysis the amount put aside for the payment of the unemployment benefit in the forthcoming year is about $85m less than it should be. That higher figure is based on the Government's own admission about the increase in unemployment and about the increase in the number of people who will be receiving the unemployment benefit in the forthcoming months. The Government has already agreed that there will be an increase to 290,000 in the average number of people receiving the unemployment benefit. Yet it has reduced the amount of money made available for the payment of that benefit. 
We find the same situation in relation to a quite small component of the total Budget. The amount of money set aside for the payment of the superphosphate bounty has in fact been reduced in the Estimates by $2m. That has been done at a time when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is anticipating a farm-led recovery. That is yet another of these elusive recoveries, following closely on the doomed heels of the consumer-led recovery and the export-led recovery. The superphosphate bounty supposedly will cost the Government $2m less this year than it did last year, even though it will be payable at the time of an alleged farm-led recovery when one would expect that the consumption of superphosphate in fact would rise. 
Further in this area of deliberate deceit, the estimates for the payment of Public Service salaries have been deliberately concocted so that the anticipated expenditure on Public Service salaries is reduced by about $ 100m. These are not simple mistakes. These are not matters which are based on unsure assumptions. These are areas in relation to which one can be more or less certain that the amount of expenditure will be far in excess of the estimates- in the case of Public Service salaries, $ 100m more; and in the case of the payment of the unemployment benefit, $85m more. One can be absolutely sure that the amount of expenditure will far exceed the amount of the estimated outlays included in the Budget. 
The third category of deception, as far as faulty estimates are concerned, is in the area of incompetence. I point simply to the health scheme. The honourable member for Adelaide went into some detail to explain that in his view and in our view the estimates are way short of the mark and that the amount of money which in fact will be expended on the health scheme. It will be far larger than the amount for which the Government has budgeted. I think that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman ) has already indicated that he doubts that the scheme will last very long, for the obvious reason that the likely cost of this scheme will far exceed the estimates. The Government probably will have to patch up the scheme some time early next year in order to retrieve the situation to some extent. 
Further in the area of incompetence we find the recently announced change to the family allowances proposals. That simple change, made on the run, will add something like $80m to the deficit. That addition will occur because of the Government's incompetence in recognising the consequences of a stupid policy. When, on a reasonable assessment, we take into account these errors and deceptions- whether they result from quite deliberately and artificially rosy estimates of the performance of the Budget, whether they are the result of deliberate deceit or whether they are the result of incompetence- I think we can be fairly sure that the Budget deficit will exceed at least by $600m the amount which is included in the Budget documents. This will mean that the Budget deficit, far from being the $2.8 billion which is suggested in the Budget, probably will be $3.4 billion at the least. At that rate it will exceed the deficit of last year. 
The really puzzling part of all this is that if the Budget deficit does blow out to $3.4 billion that will have consequences for the Government as far as the management of the economy is concerned. One would have expected that with that likelihood the Government would have been honest enough to come out and tell us that that would be the extent of the deficit. One would have expected at least the Treasury to acknowledge that in its documents. But, no; the Government will not admit that, for ideological reasons, for reasons of its own obsessional fantasies about economic policy; and the Treasury will not tell us, because it has been leaned on and has been forced to cook the books in order to disguise this almost certain reality. We will be put in a difficult position in funding that deficit. The points made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who preceded me in the debate, will prove to be extraordinarily apt. The Government will not be worrying simply about the funding of a deficit of $2.8 billion; it will be concerned to fund a deficit of approximately $3.4 billion. The consequences for the economy will be so much greater. They will be even more extreme if the Government does not acknowledge that fact here and now. 
The lament of all this is that if we are to have a deficit of $3.4 billion, the Opposition would welcome that; but it would welcome such a deficit if as part of that extra expenditure we were getting some sort of expansion and some sort of stimulus to the economy. There seems to be very little point in our deluding ourselves about the size of the deficit and about its consequences for the economy. The situation will be compounded if all this takes place in a haphazard way which does not aim to assist or to stimulate the economy and to help reduce the level of unemployment, which ought to be the chief priority of this Government or of any government faced with unemployment at the monstrous levels at which it stands at the moment. 
So, whilst the Prime Minister can pride himself on producing Budget documents which say that the Budget deficit will be no more than $2.8 billion, I do not think he is really fooling anybody. In fact, he will be faced with trying to fund a deficit of $3.4 billion. The sooner he, the rest of the Government and the rest of the community recognise that fact, the better. This Loan Bill reveals the dishonesty of this Budget. It reveals that the Budget deficit will far exceed the amount stated in the Budget Papers. In accepting the Opposition's amendment, we ought to take account of the consequences of the Prime Minister's deliberate deceit in relation to the size of the deficit. What we really ought to be doing is calling on the Government to withdraw the Budget and to bring back Budget Estimates which are in fact truthful, which are honest and which are more productive in terms of trying to get this country out of the economic mess into which this Government seems determined to drive it even further. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) In respect of the administrative procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974, has he received, in accordance with paragraphs 2. 1 and 2.2 of those procedures, information from the proponents of the Alwest bauxite mining project in Western Australia sufficient to consider the necessity of an environmental impact statement in relation to the proposal. 
If so, (a) is an environmental impact statement considered to be necessary and (b) will he make public any information supplied. 
If an environmental impact statement was not considered necessary, what were the reasons for the decision. 
If he has not received from the proponents the information referred to in pan ( 1 ), (a) when does he expect to receive it and (b) will he make the information public when it is received. 
Does the Alwest project fall into the category mentioned in paragraphs 4.4.1 and 4.4.2 of the Arrangements Concerning Co-operation in the Environmental Assessment of Proposals between his Department and the Western Australian Department of Conservation and Environment dated 15 July 1977. 
If so, which provisions of clause 5.2 (Joint Assessment Procedures) of the Arrangements have been followed in relation to the assessment of the proposal. 
If paragraph 5.2.5.2 of the Arrangements has been followed will he make public the information provided. 
Does the existence of the Arrangements referred to in part (5) mean that he cannot exercise his powers under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 May 1 978: 
Has he given export approval for the alumina proposed to be produced from the Alwest refinery at 
Worsley, Western Australia; if so, when and in what form was the approval given. 
If no approval has been given, (a) does he have the matter under consideration and (b) has he discussed with the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development the necessity for an environmental impact statement on the Alwest bauxite mining proposal. 
It is always a treat to listen to Budget debates, particularly when Government members are participating, because they get up and say that they are going to support the Budget and that it is the most courageous Budget that any of them has ever heard and then proceed to demolish it piece by piece. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  at the same time as he embraced the Budget, referred in most disparaging terms to one of the most serious defects of the Budget, that is, the policy in relation to fuel pricing. The consequences of that particular decision for his constituents are not going to be forgotten readily.  His  constituents and the constituents in all remote areas- all people involved in primary industry- will suffer as a consequence of that policy decision for a very long time and I dare say that we will see as a consequence of that decision the going to the wall of more and more small farmers. One wonders why the people who criticise correctly those aspects of the Budget do not have the courage to proceed to change them. 
In trying to assess this Budget, which I assume is what we are supposed to be doing, I think we ought to be looking for three ingredients. On the basis of those ingredients we ought to be able to make some sort of assessment. The first ingredient we should expect to find in any Budget is what it says about the economic policy for the months immediately ahead. The second ingredient is what the Budget has to say about the longer term economic policy objectives for this country. The third ingredient of any Budget on which an assessment can be made is what statement it includes about social priorities in the context of the economic situation. I think that if we look at this Budget and try to find those three ingredients we can move to some sort of sensible assessment of it. If we make the assessment on the basis of these three ingredients I think that we will find this Budget seriously wanting. 
Let us look firstly at the question of the economic policy for the immediate future. I think it is fair enough to admit that in terms of economic policy instruments the Budget itself is a totally inadequate tool. So much of the economy is controlled from outside the public sector that whatever one does in a Budget is really going to have only a peripheral effect directly on the rest of the economy. But even if we accept that limitation there ought to be some means of providing through the Budget and through the assortment of economic policy tools which the Government can flex at the time of the Budget, a stimulus to the economy, whether it be in a positive or negative way. In this Budget this Government has opted for a course which at best can be described as neutral and at worst as negative. The amazing aspect of this Budget is that if one were to describe it to someone who was ignorant of the economic situation in this country and if one were to describe the sort of short term economic policy which was included within the Budget and then ask what kind of economic situation that policy was appropriate for I am sure that any reasonable person would say that that Budget includes an economic policy which is appropriate for a healthy economy, for an economy which is in need of neither encouragement nor restraint. In fact, the nasty reality is that the economy of Australia is far from healthy. 
It is the very great failure of this Government to grasp the severity of that situation which is so worrying. I would not mind so much if we were arguing about the alternative kinds of remedies which were required to correct the economy, but what the Government is really proposing is that no action should be taken. It is as if the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had a vision of what the economy should be and is going to hang around until the economy measures up to that vision. It is incomprehensible that a Budget like this should be brought down at a time of such diabolical economic stress. 
I know that unemployment is not always a very precise measure of the state of the economy because there are other factors, particularly these days, which influence it. But if we take that as one of the indicators, and it is a significant indicator, we find that by the end of the year something like half a million people will be out of work- an astonishing number of people unable to find work. Again, if we look at the building industry, another indicator which has always been considered significant, we find that that industry is in worse shape than it has been for 10 years. Thirdly, if we look at the question of manufacturing industry we find that it is in a continuing state of decline with no real prospect of improvement. The decline has been going on for some years now and there is no sign of its being arrested. To take a fourth indicator, the balance of payments, we find that that situation is in continuing decline, with a record deficit being recorded recently. 
I am not saying that those are the only indicators, and indeed one could refer to others which confirm the seriousness of the situation. This Government, faced with the crisis, has decided to opt out of the situation altogether. It has decided to reduce its activity in the quite pathetic belief that market forces in the rest of the economy are somehow going to solve the problem. Particularly in these times when the private sector is in such a perilous position it is quite absurd for the Government to abdicate in favour of the precariously unpredictable market forces. Specifically, if we were looking for a strategy in terms of the short term economic policy of this Government, we would have to say that it is a strategy of hope; that is, the Government hopes that interest rates will come down and, as a consequence, it hopes that there will be an encouragement to investment and therefore it hopes that as a result there will be an increase in the number of jobs. In another area, the Government hopes that inflation will fall and it hopes that this will lead to an increase in overseas investment, which it hopes will lead to an increase in the number of jobs in this country. When this is added to the further hope that the Government hopes that interest rates do not come down too fast and do not come down too far so as to discourage foreign capital from coming into this country, we have a scenario confidence in which requires a passionately religious belief in the guiding hand principle. Indeed, I think one could say that this economy is floating on the wing of a prayer. The really serious prospect for us is that should these fragile expectations not be realised, how much worse is the economy going to be in 12 months time. 
On any assessment, I think the Budget fails to measure up in the area in which the greatest claims are made for it; that is, in the area of short-term economic policy. The second point on which I think an assessment can be made is in the area of what the Budget says about the longer term economic strategy of this country. What has the Budget got to say about the shape of the Australian economy 10 years from now? Even if we were to accept the Government's own ambitions, even if we were to say that there was to be an upsurge in investment, what does this Budget say about the direction of that investment? In the area of manufacturing industry, all the Government can point to is a now totally discredited White Paper which reveals that the Government has no ideas, no thoughts, about the future of manufacturing industry in this country. Due to the obsessions of the Prime Minister, we have a protection policy which requires that manufacturing industry proceed on the basis of total chaos. It is a policy which responds more to the requirements of other countries than it does to the requirements of this country. Against that background, we cannot expect manufacturing industry to take the necessary steps which must be taken if it is going to come out of its current malaise. 
The only encouragement the Government gives in this area is to promote actively the replacement of men by machines. I do not want to be included amongst those who are opposed out of hand to the introduction of new technology or new processes. In fact, I think one can justify the introduction of new technology and new processes partly because it is necessary to overcome some of the problems which in the past have attended earlier introductions of new technology or new processes. For instance, one can simply point to such areas as the widespread use of agricultural chemicals and the disastrous consequences which have flowed from it to realise that we need increases in technology, increases in processes, just to overcome the problems which earlier technology have brought about. I am not opposing the idea of the introduction of new technology. Indeed I support it because I am not interested at all in continuing to imprison workers in the appalling conditions which prevail in many factories throughout Australia. But it is not really as simple as that. It tends to be the case that in those areas where new processes would have the greatest social advances the new technology is avoided simply because the necessary investment is not available. So those areas where the need is greatest tend to be passed by. 
What worries me is that the introduction of this new technology is often justified on the basis of quite anti-social grounds. Indeed, the main justification for the introduction of this new technology is a primitive and simplistic view of efficiency. I think any concept of efficiency, particularly where it concerns an assessment of the price of labour, automatically involves a very serious value judgment. It is simply not acceptable to undertake a cost-benefit analysis of the introduction of new procedures without taking account of the social consequences which flow from the displacement of workers. We get into the classic situation where the private profit is being made at great public cost. If it is society at large which is to pay the price or be responsible for the consequences then it is quite reasonable that the public at large, governments, ought to have a say in the direction in which new technology is taking us and the pace at which it is being introduced. Nowhere in this Budget is there an acknowledgement of that problem. 
There are other areas in which this Government is silent in terms of long-term economic policy- For instance, if one takes another of the Government's ambitions, that is, an upsurge in the amount of foreign investment, we find no statement in this Budget or from the Government about the consequences which may flow in the area of foreign ownership and control. If there is any suggestion coming from the Government it must be the suggestion that the Government has abandoned the aim of increased local ownership and control. This is an area of fundamental importance to Australia's future, and yet again the Government has no ideas, no plans. On this basis as well, as a statement of long-term economic policy this Budget is indeed a failure. 
The third ingredient to which I would like to refer briefly is that, in the circumstances of the prevailing economic conditions, if we accept the Government's claim that there is need for the degree of restraint included in this Budget we are entitled to ask who is going to bear the burden of it. Where are the Government's social priorities in terms of where the burden of the Budget should fall? One of the most appalling aspects of this Budget is that the burden of the restraint falls upon those people who are already disproportionately distressed by the prevailing economic circumstances. One has to look only at people such as farmers, pensioners, home buyers, children in government schools and low income earners to find that they are the ones who are disproportionately continuing to bear the burden of the economic policies of this Government. On this basis as well I think that we can see that as a statement of the social priorities of this Government, this Budget is a disaster. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarsOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate interrupted. 
-In considering the estimates for the Department of the Treasury specifically we find that what is revealed in terms of this Department is the total deficiency of the Government's ability adequately to plan the future course of the economy. Nowhere do we find in the estimates an appropriation for the funding of any appropriate planning mechanism and, indeed, within the Department itself no proper planning mechanisms exist. This seems to be based on an obsession by this Government against the concept of planning rather than an objection by this Government to the idea of intervention in the economy which planning implies. The Government does not seem to be opposed to intervening in the economy in a number of ways but it does seem to be obsessionally opposed to the idea of embracing the concept of planning itself. 
There are plenty of examples of where this Government has intervened in the economy in the past and continues to intervene at the moment. We only have to look at the areas of marketing. We find the marketing of agricultural commodities riddled with statutory authorities and boards of one kind or another which are specifically given the task of marketing those products. In other words, we are not leaving to the free market forces the marketing of agricultural products but rather we are putting this function more often than not in the hands of some sort of monopoly institution. In fact, only the other day the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  threatened to intervene belatedly in the marketing of iron ore and instructed the iron ore producers, mainly in Western Australia, to get together to improve the processes by which they present their products to the world markets. 
In the area of investment we find numerous instances of where this Government continues to adjust the processes of the allocation of resources by various inducements or penalties. The investment allowance which has been available over the last few years is a direct intervention in the economy to encourage investment in capital resources rather than manpower resources. That is a quite direct and specific intervention into the free market process. We have other instances, particularly in agriculture. 
-Listen my friend, there is nothing wrong with intervening in the economy. I am saying that on the one hand this Government sets its face against the idea of planning but on the other hand it is not opposed in any ideological sense apparently to the idea of intervening in the economy. What I am saying, if the honourable member will allow me to get on and develop the argument, is that if one is to intervene in the economy one ought to do it in a rational sort of way so that we know what we are doing rather than having a mish mash of ad hoc decisions and processes which in effect can lead to the misallocation of resources and the dislocation of the whole economy and can in many cases be entirely counterproductive. There are instances in the area of research and development of direct intervention in the economy to enourage that sort of activity. There is direct intervention in the area of export promotion to encourage the promotion and expansion of exports and so on. 
-I wish the honourable member would listen. I am saying it is fair enough and entirely appropriate for a government, particularly a national government, to intervene in the economy. But it is entirely inappropriate to do it while at the same time pretending not to be in favour of economic planning. The Government is not in favour of economic planning because it does not have any of the institutional processes to allow it to plan adequately or properly. Take the example of subsidies. Only this week we have seen yet another brawl in the Liberal Party over the question of subsidies to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd company in Tasmania. Here again there is a selective intervention in one part of the mining industry as a result of direct government intervention. Again, I am not particularly opposed to that but it would be far more preferable if it were done against a general background of intervention backed up by some sort of reasonable economic plan. 
The real problem, as these estimates revealnot that we have discovered this for the first time by any means- is that there is no coherent method of determining the nature or the extent of intervention in the economy. This Government refuses to accept the need for establishing the necessary institutional framework. This refusal, I suspect, arises from a misguided faith in the processes of the so-called free market. What one must realise is that, as I have indicated and as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  has already acknowledged, there are many instances in which this Government is prepared to intervene in the economy and therefore necessarily distort the free market processes. On the admission of the Government itself, the free market processes are, therefore, quite inadequate in determining the proper course of this economy. For instance, the free market processes are entirely inadequate in terms of achieving broad social goals. There is absolutely no natural market force which encourages the economy to a point of equilibrium which also coincides with full employment. I defy anyone to tell me of any market forces which would aid the economy to a point which ensured full employment. Therefore on the acknowledgement of the Government and in the Opposition's view there should be adequate processes by which we can intervene in the economy in order to achieve this and other social goals. For instance, there seems to be absolutely no point in saying that one believes in a full employment economy if one does not have the processes of intervention to ensure that one has some chance of achieving that goal. It is absolute nonsense to express a faith in a goal without having the processes to achieve it. That is one of the real problems with any approach to the economy which relies on a faith in the free market processes. 
We have seen in this Budget more than any other probably this Government relying more and more on some sort of faith in the free market process to bring the economy out of the present incredible crisis. The Government's strategy is based on hope, and hope alone. If this hope is not realised we will find in 12 months time that the economy will be in an even worse mess than it is today. It is not easy in this country to institute a process of economic planning. I would be happy to acknowledge that. For instance we have the problem of the States having a significant role in some areas of the economy. In addition, partly related to that problem is the fact that there are serious inadequacies as far as the constitutional powers of the national Govern-, ment are concerned. But these difficulties more than anything else require us to concentrate on the problem of economic planning. It is because these problems exist that the whole question of economic planning becomes more urgent and more important. Let me give the House one example at least. In the Australian economy there is a vast number of regional problems which the economies of particular areas face. If we do not have some sort of sensible approach, we cannot expect those economies which are specifically related to particular regions and are particularly determined by conditions which exist in those regions to improve just as a result of some free flow of the market forces. If we do not intervene, we are going to find that the economies of those regions which are depressed- I point to Tasmania as one example and particularly the area in which the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. operates- will get worse and worse. 
I am happy to rise in support of the impulsive young man from Blaxland. The point is that if the impulsive young man from Blaxland were the Minister for Minerals and Energy the mining industry in Australia would not be in its present parlous situation. The impulsive young man from Blaxland has seen, in the last three years, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  undermine the efforts of the Labor Government. Now, three years after having sabotaged Australia's national interest, the Minister comes round to accepting the reasonableness- in fact the necessity- of the essential ingredient of the policies that were pursued by the last Labor Government. He has a right to feel impetuous. He has a right to feel a little upset that after three years of trying to persuade the Government to adopt our policies it finally has come round to realising that in order to protect the national interest of this country the Federal Government has to intervene. Not for a moment is it a matter of the Labor Party attacking Japan. Japan's attitude in these matters is entirely understandable. It is simply pursuing its own national interest. However, the Minister for Trade and Resources wants to be a Minister in an Australian government and at the same time to pursue Japan's national interest. We want a Minister who is prepared to support Australia 's national interest. 
The Minister talked about all the projects that did not get off the ground during Labor's term of office. I will point to a few things which this Government has not done. Before the last election late last year several Ministers were talking about billions of dollars worth of investment being imminent. The Minister for Trade and Resources himself talked about a figure of $14 billion. The figure from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was not quite as exaggerated; it was about $6 billion. In Western Australia the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  who is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and who then was speaking as the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, said that the Government had ready to go projects which would provide jobs for 15,000 workers in Western Australia alone. He mentioned 20 projects. He indicated the level of investment and the extent of the work force which would be employed in each project. 
I thought I would follow up this matter. In May this year I put to the Minister for Trade and Resources the details which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had put before the electorate as firm undertakings which would come into effect as soon as this Government was re-elected. What did I find? Of the 20 projects which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was prepared to nominate before the election, the Minister for Trade and Resources could give me information on only seven. On only seven of those 20 preelection projects was the Minister able to give any estimate of the level of investment or the extent of the work force. Far from jobs being available for 15,000 people, all the Minister could point to was jobs for 3,000 people. Most of those projects were already under way. What this Government promises depends very much on what time of the year it is and the proximity of the next election. 
The Opposition's complaint is that this Government stood by while one exporter of iron ore sabotaged the whole industry. The Government stood by and let that happen. We saw Mount Newman Mining Co. Pty Ltd accept a 19 per cent cut in the base price in return for a $ 1 4m kickback which was not available to any of the other exporters. This kickback, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has indicated, was in relation to the bringing forward of the renegotiation of one of the Mount Newman company's major commodities. Clearly, of course, the Mount Newman company was anxious for the Government to approve this arrangement. It was not going to lose anything. Even though the price was lowered the Mount Newman company itself lost nothing out of it. The Government knew of the likely consequences and did nothing. It particularly knew of the consequences for producers such as Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd and other companies which are active in the Pilbara region. 
These other companies are now faced with the prospect of a lower base price as a result of this Government's acceptance of the Mount Newman deal. For them there was no possibility of offsetting that lower price by increasing prices in other directions. The Hamersley Iron company has just committed itself to an investment of about $375m in the industry. What sort of confidence can it have in this Government if, despite making that commitment, it sees this Government stand by while the industry has the stuffing knocked out of it? It is not as though the Government did not know what was going on or was powerless to act. It should have declined to approve the Mount Newman deal. At the very least it should have insisted that the $ 14m involved in the arrangement for the Mount Newman company was incorporated into the base price. If that had been done the Mount Newman company would have lost nothing but the other companies would not have been disadvantaged to the extent that they were; the Mount Newman company would have lost nothing, but the Hamersley company, for instance, would not have been so seriously disadvantaged. Alternatively, if the Government was going to insist upon approving the Mount Newman deal it could have refused to approve the Hamersley deal which flowed directly from it. That did not happen. The Minister found, as a result of approving the Mount Newman deal, that he was incapable of acting to protect the interests of the rest of the industry. 
It is not as though this Government has not been prepared to talk tough on this issue. In 1976, when the Minister came back from Japan he said: 
I believe the Government has a responsibility to exercise a surveillance over our trade with other countries, but I would hope- and certainly intend- that the Government would become involved in commercial negotiations only if absolutely necessary- that is, only if prices did not reflect world prices and fair trade practices. 
He went on to say that the producer would be ordered to go back to Tokyo to get a higher price. If the Minister really believes that, why did he not do it? It was quite clear, as he has admitted subsequently, that the arrangement to which the Mount Newman company agreed and into which the Hamersley company was forced amounted to unfair trade practices and did not reflect world prices. The Minister said that he would prefer to see the private sector conduct its own negotiations, but he also said:   . . the Government could not stand aside while the private sector acted in a way which ran counter to our national interests. 
That is precisely what has happened on this occasion. Yet this Government, whilst it talks tough, has not been prepared to back up that tough talk with any sort of action. As soon as the crunch comes the Minister for Trade and Resources backs away. 
One of the disturbing aspects of this whole incident is the role of the Western Australian Government. When the Federal Minister admitted that he was dissatisfied with the deal that had been negotiated, the Premier of Western Australia said that the Federal Government should get out of the way and let commercial practices prevail in iron ore deals. He said that the country was trading in a difficult market and at such times it was never possible to be certain that the best price had been obtained. Everybody knows that as a result of this Government approving the Mount Newman deal the whole industry has been sabotaged and is now worse off than it was. The Federal Government was not prepared to take the action it said it would take in these circumstances. Later, when answering a question about the tactics of the Japanese, the Premier of Western Australia said: 
This is a myth that the Japanese play them off one against the other. They are all big companies. They are all big by world standards. They are all tough operators . . . Now once they become a cartel, that's when big brother moves in, that's when the Government is going to move in and heaven forbid, because if you want to put the dead hand on minerals in Australia, you let the Government take over. 
There is not a better instance of the dead hand being placed on the iron ore industry in Western Australia. This is the result of the selfish action of one company, spearheaded by a totally foreign owned company which was responsible for the negotiations. That company has been responsible for sabotaging the interests of the whole iron ore industry in Western Australia. 
Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development received a copy of the report of the Western Australian Environmental Protection Authority Review Committee regarding Alcoa's draft environmental impact statement for the Wagerup project? Is it true that this report is critical of Alcoa's proposal? If he has not yet received a copy of the report, does he propose to seek a copy before formulating his recommendations under the requirements of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 9 August 1978. 
1 ) Did the Attorney-General write to  Mr John  Doohan of 2 1 Bartlett Street, Willagee, WA, on or about 26 June 1978. 
Was this correspondence marked secret. 
If so, why and by what authority was it so classified. 
Was this the letter referred to in articles published in the  Sunday Independent o( 3  and 20 August 1978. 
5 ) If so, does this disclosure constitute a breach of the secret classification. 
Does the Attorney-General intend to take any action. 
-I take the opportunity during the discussion of the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to raise the question of land rights in Western Australia. We have in Western Australia the possibility of there developing a Queenslandtype situation in relation to the legitimate claims of the Aboriginal people for land rights. We must ensure above all else that the Aboriginal people of Western Australia and Aboriginal people everywhere are not ensnared by this Government in a battleground of legal complexity and political rivalries. The Aboriginal people throughout Australia have made perfectly clear their demand for land rights. That is their first demand. That is the demand which they give the highest priority. Whilst I suspect that there is a possibility of the development in Western Australia of the sort of brawl that has developed in Queensland, I suspect also that even though the Premier of Western Australia shares the ideological absurdities of the Premier of Queensland he probably has slightly more political finesse. Whilst he will probably end up achieving exactly the same result as has been achieved in Queensland, he will probably ensure at the same time that the publicity and the open political conflict do not develop in Western Australia. This is particularly perplexing for us and something that we have to scrutinise all the more diligently, because we know at least that the Premier of Queensland is opposed- he is prepared to take his opposition to extraordinary extremes- to the granting of any sort of real, permanent land rights to the Aborigines of that State. We know also that the Premier of Western Australia is of a like mind. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  I have previously drawn the attention of the Committee to the fact that there is too much audible conversation in the chamber. Once again I do that. 
-I think the people who have been most noisy in these circumstances,  Mr Chairman,  are those who were pretending to have a particular interest in this subject matter. What we must be. particularly aware of is that there is not some sort of shoddy deal perpetrated in Western Australia under which the legitimate claims and the rights of the Aboriginal people of Western Australia are simply shoved under the carpet as a result of some collaboration between the Federal and State governments. I think that the Premier of Western Australia would prefer to do it that way. We must ensure that the Federal Government is not inveigled into that situation. The Premier of Western Australia will always say that a system of land rights does exist in Western Australia but, of course, that is only a subterfuge for the real thing. There is in Western Australia an Aboriginal Lands Trust which theoretically at least has some control over the management of Aboriginal land, but that Lands Trust has only a very tenuous involvement indeed. There is absolutely no security of tenure in terms of the land which is under the control of the Aboriginal Lands Trust. 
The members of the Aboriginal Lands Trust are appointed by the Government. They are not elected by the Aboriginal people and the land over which they have control is controlled substantially by the State Government. Whilst the Premier will say that the Lands Trust has greater tenure over the land than does a private citizen over freehold land, inasmuch as before the Government can alter the boundaries of any Aboriginal reserves it has to refer the matter to Parliament, that is a disguise for the real situation. In fact, all the State Government has to do if it wants to abolish a reserve or if it wants to change substantially the boundaries of reserves is to inform the Parliament. There is no requirement for legislation to be passed through the State Parliament. All that has to happen is that the State Parliament has to be informed of the intention of the Government or the Executive Council so to change the boundaries of those reserves. 
The honourable member for Swan would have absolutely no idea of this subject In fact, he would have even less idea of this subject than he had of a debate which occurred in this chamber not long ago. When the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was raising the very serious question of bauxite mining on the Darling Range the honourable member for Swan replied that bauxite mining on the Darling Range posed absolutely no threat to Perth's water supply and posed no threat to the future of the jarrah forests of Western Australia. If that is the extent of the knowledge of the honourable member for Swan, then it would be far better if he kept quiet rather than made absolutely absurd and inane interjections. That seems to be the level of his contribution in this place. 
We are a wake-up to you too, my friend. I am unlikely to be able to share your company after the next election. The point is that in Western Australia there is under the control of the Aboriginal Lands Trust some 20 million hectares of land which constitutes more than 7 per cent of the total land area in Western Australia. That seems to be a substantial amount of land when one bears in mind that the Aboriginal population of Western Australia as a whole is approximately 2 per cent of the population of Western Australia. But one has to bear in mind that until recently there has been absolutely no competition from anyone else for that land, and then the interest has been only selective. Only when it is discovered that some value is attaching to that land does anyone else in the community have designs on it. That land has been set aside for Aboriginal purposes and it is my contention that that land ought to be permanently reserved for Aboriginal people and ought to be under the permanent control of Aboriginal people in Western Australia. It is not good enough for the State Government with, I suspect, the collaboration of the Federal Government, to say that there is an Aboriginal Lands Trust which has some limited power in relation to the management of that land. It is not good enough for the State Government to say that that constitutes land rights. It does not constitute land rights. It never has and it never will. It is open to the responsible Minister in any Western Australian government simply to abolish any reserve which happens to get in the way of any mining interests in that State. 
We know also that it has been the intention of the State Government to vary the way in which people get access to Aboriginal reserves. We already know that it is the intention of the State Government to remove absolutely any involvement of the Aboriginal people in determining who is allowed to go onto their land- land on which they are living. I know that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has expressed some concern about this matter. I even know that he has written letters to the State Government expressing his disapproval of the intentions of the State Government in relation to this matter. But I am yet to see any positive action which will result in the State Government's abandoning that particular course of action. It has even been suggested to me that the new mining Bill which has recently been introduced into the Western Australian Parliament will in fact abolish the necessity for the State Government to proceed in the way in which it intended to proceed under the Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority Act. 
What is wrong with it- to acquaint the honourable member for Swan with the facts- is that it may be possible under the new provisions of the Mining Act for people who have permission under that Act to explore or actually to mine land, to do so even on Aboriginal reserves without reference to the Aboriginal people themselves, without reference to the Lands Trust, without reference even to the Government itself. What I want to ensure is that the Minister in this place makes investigations into the consequences and the provisions of the new mining legislation to ensure that this is not a back door method of achieving the goal which the State Government publicly announced some time ago of removing the possibility of any Aboriginal people getting in the way of the interests of mining companies and the like. It is not enough for the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to go to the Central Reserve in Australia and express theoretical support for the people in their land claims. It is about time he turned that theoretical support into some practical support of the legitimate claims of the Aboriginal people of the Central Reserve. 
-What the Opposition wanted in this debate was an explanation of why the Government has embarked on this massive loan raising exercise and an indication of how long we can expect it to continue to be borrowing money overseas in such vast amounts. We did not get from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  an adequate explanation of that. What we got was a recitation of previous announcements. What we got was simply an announcement of what has already happened. I do not think that is good enough for either this Parliament or the Australian people. I think that this is a fundamentally crucial question, and the Opposition has not raised it frivolously. We realise that it is a sensitive issue, and what we were seeking from the Government was some explanation as to how much longer we can expect this sort of activity to be going on and against what background we can expect it to be going on. 
Before getting to the core of the argument I want to respond to a couple of the quaint explanations which the Treasurer gave. For instance, he blamed the poor position of Australia's current account on the fact that we have priced ourselves out of the market and that our internal cost structure had increased too rapidly. I would be very intrigued to discover from the Treasurer how he thinks that the internal cost structure has influenced our trade in commodities as it has been in the area of trade in commodities which has particularly adversely influenced our balance on current account. 
The point is that the internal cost structure has not had any bearing at all on the declining value of our commodity sales. Again I would be intrigued to know how the internal cost structure has had a crucial bearing on the invisibles component, which continues to be of such massive proportions. The internal cost structure has very little to do with the extent of the invisible payments, which have always been a great burden to this country. The Treasurer said that he thought it was entirely proper for Australia to be moving away from United States dollars into yen in the loan raising in which the Government is engaging. 
The Treasurer said that he thought that under the circumstances it was reasonable to increase the proportion of the loan raisings in yen. 
That is right. The point is that we do not have to do that by expanding our loan raisings. That can be done within the context of the existing level of borrowings by switching around the currency in which those borrowings are held. So that itself is not an adequate explanation. Indeed it would be better to hold borrowings in US dollars, because the Australian currency is in fact improving against the US dollar and is declining markedly against the yen. So it is more expensive for us to be paying the interest in yen rather than in US dollars. I think that on those couple of points the Treasurer was less than candid in his explanation to this House. 
What the Opposition has tried to do today is to focus some attention on the balance of payments situation, which is one of unrelieved gloom. I do not think that anyone would dispute that claim. I guess in the context of the general state of the economy that the gloom on the balance of payment situation would surprise no one, but it is serious to the extent that it reveals the failure of the Government's economic strategy because if the Government's economic strategy were beginning to work we would have expected one of the first signs of that success to be in our overseas transactions. It is not necessary for me to remind the House that this Government's strategy is based very firmly on the hope that there will be an increase in the amount of inflow of overseas capital, because we have been told that as a result of an increased flow of foreign private capital into this country there will be an increase in investment and, therefore, an expansion of job opportunities. In fact the situation which is unfolding is exactly the reverse of what one would have expected had the Government's economic strategy begun to work. We find that the balance on the current account continues to be strongly negative and that it is substantially worse in the September quarter of 1978 than it was in the September quarter of 1977. Indeed, in the last three months there, has been a progression of larger deficits. 
As the honourable member for Adelaide has correctly pointed out, Australia's international liquidity continues to decline. It has now fallen below $3,000m and is falling currently at the rate of $63m a week. The Australian dollar, of course, is now worth 10 per cent less than it was worth 15 months ago, and crucially the level of capital inflow into this country, although higher than at this time last year, has in fact been falling since the introduction of the Budget, the prime aim of which was to encourage the inflow of foreign private capital. I think that that last statistic is very interesting because it reveals that the Budget has not had the desired impact. It should be seen also in the context of the report from Hill Samuel Australia Ltd to which the honourable member for Adelaide referred. Hill Samuel does not expect there to be an increase in the level of private capital coming into Australia in the near future. The latest annual figures available show that for the 12 months to June 1977 there was an inflow of $1.3 billion and that for the 12 months to June 1978 the inflow was only about $342m. I think that in this area a very serious problem exists, because it reveals that a fundamental and important plank of this Government's economic strategy is in fact falling to pieces. 
What is the Government proposing to do about this problem? We have seen that its response to the deteriorating situation of our current account, which of course has been exacerbated by the fact that the inflow of private capital has not been what the Government expected it to be, has been to move to borrow quite massively overseas. It will shortly have in the order of $4,000m of overseas borrowings. I think it is important that I say that the Opposition is not ideologically opposed to overseas borrowings. What it is opposed to is the way in which the borrowing has been done and the lack of explanation that has been given. I say quite frankly that the Labor Party is not opposed to borrowing money from overseas for the purpose of job creation in this country; but that is not what this Government is on about. Where is the investment which the Government has been able to inspire as a result of these massive borrowings? 
What has to be remembered is that if there were some investment in this country of those foreign loans at least we would have some way of servicing the massive debt which we will have to face up to in the near future. The honourable member for Adelaide pointed out that the repayments which will be a charge on the Budget very soon will be in the order of $500m a year. That will have a very important impact on the domestic economy. When those repayments become due it will have a very important impact on the size and shape of the Budget. I think that these are the questions about which the Government really has not come clean. It really has not told us for how long we will be borrowing at this level and how it intends to service those debts in the years to come. 
The solutions to these problems, I admit, are not simple. One of the ways in which some action has to be taken is to attempt to reduce the deficit on the current account. I am bound to say in passing that this problem is not helped by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  approving a price cut in our iron ore that is shipped to Japan. That will only exacerbate an already serious problem. Secondly, some action is obviously needed in the area of the inflow of private capital. That is the one objective which the Government has confidently set for itself, and yet it is an area in which the Government has been shown clearly to have failed. What this really reveals is the isolation of this Government from the rest of the world economy. The policies of this Government are quite out of tune with most of the major economies. So long as we continue to follow those, policies this economy will be left high and dry. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs investigated complaints that officers of his Department sought to influence Aboriginal housing associations in favour of Stawell Timber Industries and specifically that, on two occasions, Aboriginal representatives were presented with pre-prepared contracts ready for signature? What were the results of any investigations and what action has been taken as a result? In the light of information which the Minister gave the House yesterday that all Stawell contracts were in accordance with his Department's financial directives and his own ministerial guidelines, does it follow that he has countermanded the Department's regulation 2.3.2, requiring the calling of tenders? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 2122  (Hansard,  28 September 1978, page 1587) how many officers (a) in the Attorney-General 's Department and (b) in the Attorney-General's office are authorised to affix the word Secret' to documents, correspondence and other papers. 
Which of these officers was responsible for incorrectly affixing the word 'Secret ' to the letter to  Mr Doohan. 
) What is the penalty for the incorrect application of this classification. 
What action is being taken to (a) invoke the penalty and (b) prevent a recurrence of the error. 
-The Loans (Taxation Exemption) Bill 1978 is a relatively simple amendment to the Loans Securities Act to provide for the exclusion of interest and loan repayments on overseas borrowings from Australian taxation. An overseas borrowing which takes the form of an issue of stock or securities is already exempt from Australian taxation, but overseas borrowings in the form of bank loans or made under other arrangements which do not involve the issue of stock or securities are not covered by the existing provisions of the Loans Securities Act. This amendment therefore brings up to date the provisions of that Act by including the newer forms of borrowing arrangements. The Opposition does not oppose this technical amendment. However, I move the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill the House is of the opinion that the foreign loan program which will be facilitated by this Bill is seriously extending Australia 's foreign debt burden and should only be continued if the Government can assure the House that the program will be of limited duration'. 
The purpose of moving that amendment is to draw attention to the fact that this Bill is inexorably connected with the Government's overseas borrowing program. What the Opposition is concerned about is that this overseas borrowing program is proceeding with no clear explanation as to the extent of that borrowing or of the time frame over which it will be continued. This Bill draws attention to the fact that since June 1976 this Government has borrowed from overseas the equivalent of over $3.5 billion. I think it is important to see that not only as a massive debt in itself but also in the context of Australia's external position as a whole. The reason why it is important to see the Government's borrowing program as part of Australia's external position is that this Government's policy in relation to economic recovery is predicated on the view which overseas decision makers have of the Australian economy; that is, it is very important to the Government to ensure that decision makers overseas have a favourable view of the shape of the Australian economy, its strength and the strength of the Australian dollar. 
The reason for that is that if the policy of this Government is to work- I think that must be very much under a cloud- the Government will need a substantial infusion of overseas investment in this country and it will also require that there be no assault on the current exchange rate. Therefore it is important that the Government take action to ensure that the exchange rate is more or less maintained and also that the climate in Australia as perceived by overseas decision makers is favourable for them. I think it is important for everyone in this country to be aware of the fact that this Government is making decisions which are primarily in the interests of overseas observers, overseas decision-makers, rather than in the interests of Australians. We have a Prime Minister who is pursuing his own ideological obsessions against the interests of the Australian people. This will become increasingly serious as I suspect that early next year the Government will have to face up to a number of very difficult decisions. One of those decisions will be whether to devalue the currency or to allow interest rates in this country to increase. If the Government is in any way consistent it is likely to make the decision that is most favourable to overseas interests, overseas decisionmakers, and not necessarily in the interests of Australians. It is more likely to allow interest rates to drift up than to devalue the currency. Therefore, I think we must see what is in a sense a fairly minor amendment in the context of the Government's overall economic policy, the failure of that economic policy and the implications of that failure for Australians. 
The Government's borrowing program is so crucial because of the deteriorating position on a number of fronts. The first is that the position on current account is weak and continuing to weaken. Over the last four months we have seen a continuing deterioration of the balance on current account. If we translate the monthly deficit into an annual deficit we see that the annual deficit is running at something like $4 billion, which is 25 per cent above the Budget estimate of $3 billion. It is likely that some time between now and the end of the financial year the export of primary products will help to bring down that deficit to some extent, but a number of observers doubt whether the expectation of $3 billion will in fact be realised. What is necessary under these circumstances is for the Government to take much more action to expand our exports. In this context it is particularly important that the Government place far more importance on Asian markets than on European markets; yet time and time again we see the Government involved in pursuing markets in Europe and attacking the Europeans for not accepting our products. What seems to me to be much more in the long term interests of this country is for the Government to pursue markets for our products in the rapidly expanding Asian markets. 
Even in the export of minerals, on which we have relied so much in the past, the current depressed state of the Japanese steel industry is likely to adversely affect the exports of iron ore and coal from Australia, both in price and quantity, at least into the early 1980s. The safety valve on our external position, that is, the export of minerals, is not likely to come to the Government's rescue in the short term. It seems to me that rather than pursuing what I think are outmoded, old fashioned views of where our exports ought to go, the Government ought to be placing much more emphasis on opening up markets in our own region. 
The reason the deficit on the current account is so important is that, if it continues to decline at its current rate, it will have even more disastrous consequences for our overseas reserves and, as a result, the Government will have to borrow even more heavily to bolster those reserves. One way in which the Government has attempted to bolster our reserves in recent times has been by the practice, which is probably a debatable practice, of valuing our holdings of gold on the basis of current prices. Since the Government adopted this practice in 1976 the value of our holdings of gold has increased on paper by in excess of $1 billion. That has substantially improved the position of overseas reserves because, if it were not for that substantial increase in the dollar value of our gold, our reserves would be $1 billion less than they are, and they are already at historically fairly low levels. Until the Government changed the method of valuing gold, the holdings of gold represented a fairly small proportion of our total overseas reserves, between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. However, gold now represents over 40 per cent of the value of our overseas reserves. I suppose that that is fair enough as long as the price of gold continues to increase, but should the price of gold decline the beneficial effects which the Government's decision has had on the level of our overseas reserves will be immediately reversed. 
Another aspect needs to be taken into account when considering the Government's overseas borrowing program, and that is the size of the debt it represents to each and every Australian. Australians are concerned about the issues to which the Prime Minister adverted in November 1976, when he said: 
Is there a man here who would say that he would sooner put Australia into hock to the tune of $ 1,000m rather than devalue? 
At that time the Prime Minister was expressing a concern about the degree to which the Australian people are prepared to accept the Government's putting the country into hock. Of course, almost immediately he said that he embarked on a borrowing program which, as I said, has lifted the level of borrowings by the Australian Government to  3Vi  times the amount the Prime Minister mentioned in 1976. At the time this Government came to office the size of the official overseas debt was about $95 per head of population in this country. Now it has risen to a level of $280 per person. It has trebled in the period during which this Government has been in office. The Australian people are entitled to be somewhat concerned about the trebling of the official debt of this country. The people deserve a much more adequate explanation than the Government has been prepared to provide in terms of the extent to which it is prepared to allow these borrowings to grow and also in terms of the time period it is prepared to allow this borrowing program to extend. 
The reasons why we are entitled to be concerned are revealed by an answer which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  gave to a question from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  on 9 November. The honourable member for Gellibrand asked the Treasurer to provide information concerning the servicing of the overseas borrowing program and the repayment of those loans. In that answer the Treasurer revealed that in to the early 1980s we will be confronted with having to find something like $850m to service and repay the loans which Australia has now negotiated. 
In the current year interest payments will be about $300m. In 1981-82 interest payments will still be running at about that level but we will also have to find repayments in the order of $560m. It seems to me that we have to be concerned about the consequences of this obligation on the size and shape of Budgets in years to come. Of course, it would be possible to roll over those loans and re-negotiate them, or negotiate further loans in order to service and repay them, but that is not a costless exercise and would in any event it would be a charge on the Budget of the time. In a very real sense the Government at the moment is chalking up future debts and problems for forthcoming Treasurers. 
An aspect which is of crucial importance in the repayment of these debts is the way in which the Australian dollar moves against the currencies of the countries where the loans are raised. In recent times the Australian dollar has weakened markedly against the yen, yet the Government recently has been raising its loans in yen. I think these problems deserve very much more explanation than the Government has been prepared to provide to the Parliament and the people of Australia. Despite the fact that the Treasurer was given an opportunity to answer important questions on 11 October he substantially avoided doing so. It therefore seems to the Opposition that, before we are prepared to embrace the notion of expanding and extending the Government's loan borrowing program we ought to be provided with assurances that the program will be of a limited duration. We do not seek this assurance because we have any ideological objection to borrowing overseas; in fact we favour it. But we favour it for the purpose of providing investment capital in this country which would expand economic activity and job opportunities. That is not what the Government's borrowing program is all about. The Government's borrowing program has been undertaken to shore up the external position of Australia against a deficit on current account which is reaching record proportions and where the position of the Australian dollar is perceived by many observers to be weakening. 
I cannot emphasise enough that the Opposition, if in government, would attempt to borrow money overseas for some of the purposes for which approval has been given for the States to borrow, although we do not entirely approve of the way in which this has been done. I suspect that Western Australia will use its borrowing program to provide disguised subsidies for particular industries and will not be necessarily in the interests of the people of Western Australia as a whole. If we were responsible for raising money overseas it would be with a view to expanding the level of economic activity in this country and thereby providing jobs. 
I conclude by restating that the Opposition, in moving the amendment, is not attempting in any way to block the passage of this relatively technical and minor amending Bill. However, we insist that the Government come forward with a much clearer explanation of its borrowing program and with some guarantees concerning the level to which it will permit borrowing to grow. It should explain over what period it will allow the program to extend. This is mainly because of the consequences for future Australians and future governments in terms of servicing and repaying these loans. We are entitled to know the extent to which the Government is putting this country in hock and the implications of the Government's decision for Australia 's future. 
I simply indicate that the Opposition does not oppose this minor amendment to the Quarantine Act. I want to use the opportunity to make a few remarks about the quarantine activities in my electorate. I actually have two quarantine stations in my electorate. Whilst the electorate of Werriwa might be the place where most chicken plucking is carried out, I suspect that - 
And pheasants. What about ducks? 
-I suspect that Fremantle is probably unique in having so many quarantine stations in the one electorate. However, it is the announced intention of the Government to close down both the quarantine stations and open others in new locations. I think that is a decision which has been fairly universally applauded. One of the quarantine stations is at Woodman Point. The decision in principle to close that station was taken some time ago, I think by  Dr Everingham,  the predecessor of the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It has been the subject of lengthy negotiations with the State Government ever since. The point I make about the Woodman quarantine station is that it is located on superb beachfront land. It is like an oasis in the midst of a light industrial belt which includes a number of noxious industries. Its closure opens up the opportunity of providing an excellent recreational facility for the people who live south of the Swan River. Therefore, the future use of this land is of very great importance, not only to the people of my electorate, but also to the people of surrounding electorates, including, I dare say, the residents of the Canning electorate. 
I make the point that in the Government's negotiations with the Western Australian Government in determining the sale of this land, I think it is not possible for the Federal Government simply to absolve itself of any responsibility concerning the land 's future use. The tendency has been for the Government to offer the land for sale to the Western Australian Government. Therefore, once the Western Australian Government purchases that land, it will be the responsibility of that Government to determine its future use. I do not think the position is quite as simple as that. Surely, the asking price which the Commonwealth nominates for that land will determine the way in which the State Government can use it economically. For instance, if the Commonwealth asks a very high price for the land then the Western Australian Government will be tempted to use some, if not all, of the land for industrial purposes and so on. It will be less likely to make all the land available for recreational purposes. I know that this is not the direct responsibility of the Minister for Health, who is at the table. I know that he is not responsible for the disposal of Commonwealth land, but I think there are a number of other matters which I will come to in a moment that bear directly on his responsibility. 
The second quarantine station in question is the Bicton animal quarantine station. Recently, I received a letter from  Senator Chaney,  who, as the Minister for Administrative Services, is responsible for the disposal of Commonwealth land. He indicated to me that an alternative site was available to which the animal quarantine station activities could be moved. However, the matter is apparently again the subject of negotiations with the State Government. I want to refer briefly to that matter. This quarantine station is located on prime land with excellent views across one of the prettiest parts of the Swan River. When we bear in mind that  Senator Chaney  pointed out in his letter to me that one of the reasons for the sale of the land was to open up the possibility of the use of that land being more compatible with the surrounding residential areas, it is a matter of concern to the residents near that quarantine station. Certainly, it is a matter of concern to me. The point is that, again, the Commonwealth is saying that the future use of this land is not a matter of prime concern to the Commonwealth. It is interested only in making the land available to the Western Australian State Government at a price and leaving the decisions about its future use to that Government. I think it is not possible for the Federal Government to avoid the responsibility entirely because if, in this instance, it asks a very high price for this prime residential land, then there will be an irresistible temptation for the State Government to ensure that it gets a reasonable return from its purchase and to open the land up for commercial and residential development. 
On the other hand, the residents of the area are very keen to see the land used for recreational and public open-space-type activities. Therefore, I think the Federal Government must bear in mind the wishes of the residents when it is negotiating this sale with the State Government. For both Woodman Point quarantine station and the Bicton quarantine station the Commonwealth Government ought to be asking a price which will allow the State Government to make the land available for public open space and recreational purposes, once it has been purchased by the Western Australian Government. I urge the Federal Government to take a view in its negotiations with the State Government which will leave the options of the State Government open on this matter. 
I have said before that it is the Department of Administrative Services which has responsibility for the disposal of this land, but it seems to me that we are in a somewhat awkward position. Whilst the decisions in principle have been taken to remove both of these facilities, apparently the final decision has not been taken by the Department of Health. I would like from the Minister at least some indication in the case of the Bicton quarantine station, and in relation to Woodman Point if possible, some indication of when it is anticipated that the activities of both locations will be moved elsewhere so that the land then becomes available for other uses. It seems to me that that is a question which has not been answered yet. It is of course of very great importance to those people who are trying to agitate for the proper and effective future use of that land. I ask the Minister whether he can provide some information concerning the likely date of closure of both those facilities and their removal elsewhere. 
The second thing on which I would like some explanation from the Minister relates to allegations which have recently been made that major building works have recently been carried on at the Bicton animal quarantine station. The person in charge of the quarantine station, the station manager, has said: 'No new work has been done in the past six months; only major repairs that were urgently needed like wire being replaced for kennels and patching work on roads is being done.' That is what the station manager said, but I have been reliably informed by people who live over the road from this quarantine station that to call the recent capital works that have been going on at the station simply major repairs is a total distortion of the English language; in fact what has been going on is building works of a fairly substantial nature. It seems to me to be a questionable activity for the Government on the one hand to be engaged in a building program at this site and at the same time making arrangements for the removal of its activity, and of course, the likely demolition of any buildings which are there. 
I would like some explanation from the Minister as to what works have actually been going on there, the cost of those works and how those works fit into the Government's apparently announced policy for the closure of this station and for the removal of its activities elsewhere. I did say that this was a fairly minor Bill that we are debating. I did say that the Opposition was not opposed to it. I therefore conclude my remarks. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Will he supply details of the recruit intake for HMAS  Leeuwin  for each of the years from 1970 to 1977 inclusive and from 1 January 1978 to date including (a) the total number of recruits and (b) the number of recruits (i) under the age of 20 years and (ii) 20 years and over. 
) If there has been a change in the pattern of recruitment over the period referred to, what is the reason for the change. 
-This Bill gives us an opportunity, which has been taken by speakers before me, to discuss some of the broader aspects of airline policy, particularly domestic airline policy. Recently we have been swamped with promises, as yet unrealised, concerning the introduction of cheaper overseas air travel. However, that debate has tended to overshadow the much more serious question, in my view, of the high cost of domestic travel. The domestic airlines have been very slow to respond to the demands of government and the travelling public to introduce a lower regime of air fares. If it had not been for the actions of the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who was responsible for introducing the off-peak fare, we might still be back in the dark days when only one fare existed and one either took it or left it. We have moved some distance from that point, but I suspect that we are now moving into the area of gimmickry as the airlines try to pretend that they are responding to the demands of the travelling public. 
I want to point particularly to the recently introduced standby arrangements, which were heralded as a great breakthrough. Savings of up to 40 per cent would be available to people if they were prepared to wait in a queue at the airport from which they were originating their travel until such time as an empty seat became available. We in Western Australia waited patiently for the extension of this facility to Perth, and since it has been introduced we have been able to make some examination of it. I think that that examination reveals that the scheme is practically worthless to the people of Western Australia. I want to make a quick comparison concerning the various fares available between, say, Perth and Sydney and return. The economy fare- that is, the unrestricted return fare Perth-Sydney-Perth or the other way round- is just under $450. The budget fare is about $380, or some $67 less than the economy fare. Below that we have the standby fare of $366, which is just $14 less than the budget fare. Then there is the APEX fare- the advance purchase excursion fare- of about $336, which again is $30 less than the standby fare. 
To explain quickly, the budget fare requires the traveller to purchase a return ticket and imposes some restrictions, particularly near the weekend, in terms of when the traveller can travel between Sydney and Perth. The advance purchase excursion fare requires the purchase of the ticket 30 days in advance and no refunds are available in the event of cancellation. In addition, the APEX arrangements will be cancelled over the peak Christmas period. As far as the standby fare is concerned, there is no assured travel at all. Not only might a person not get on the flight at the point where the travel originates, that is, Sydney or Perth, but may be stranded on the way at either Adelaide or Melbourne. In fact, the traveller has to get off the plane at one or both of those places and queue up again for a seat on the next sector of the route. The traveller may have to 'overnight' at either or both those cities and may be separated on the way from his baggage. We all understood that with the standby arrangement a very important principle operates that 'you pay your money and take your chance,' but I do not think we are all aware that another principle operates as well; that is, that you pay your money and take a change'. It might be that a toothbrush and a change of smalls become necessary to enable a passenger to complete his journey in any sort of comfort. 
Surely the domestic airlines can do better than that. For the sake of $14, no one is going to choose a standby instead of a budget fare. Bearing in mind that the restrictions on the budget fare are designed to encourage travellers to move to the off-peak area, it is very unlikely that a standby passenger would be able to get a seat on anything but an off-peak flight anyway. Therefore there are no advantages in terms of the greater choice of travelling time between the standby and the off-peak budget arrangements. A passenger is not going to be any worse off in terms of the choice of travelling times as a result of choosing the budget fare instead of the standby fare. For a saving of $ 14 a passenger has to put up with at least two and perhaps three queues before boarding a plane and before boarding again when the journey is broken compulsorily. Again, there are two or three chances of being left behind, either at the point at which the travel originates or en route. There are one or two chances of being stranded overnight between the originating city and the city of destination, and there are two or three chances of being separated from baggage. 
-If a passenger starts at Sydney his luggage could end up in Perth several days before he does and he might be stranded at Adelaide or Melbourne in the clothes he stands up in. That is the point. Then, of course, there is the choice of whether one, in leaving Sydney, goes via Adelaide or Melbourne. One can imagine a traveller agonising over whether to take an available seat to Melbourne or wait in the hope that a seat to Adelaide might become available. The point is that if the traveller does choose the seat to Melbourne, say, exactly the same agony arises there, that is whether to take an available seat from Melbourne to Adelaide, or to wait in the hope of a direct flight from Melbourne to Perth being available? In making all these choices the traveller has no idea, when choosing one interim destination or another, whether the chances of getting to the final destination will be improved. The traveller has no idea of whether any chance exists of getting from Melbourne to Penh or whether it would be better to travel to Adelaide in the hope of obtaining a flight out of Adelaide to Perth. 
Two points arise from this chaos. First of all, surely it ought to be possible for a passenger who  is intending to fly under the standby arrangements to be able to arrange to complete his trip with the one purchase of a ticket. Surely at Sydney it ought to be possible to buy a ticket for a seat which will guarantee travel all the way through to Perth, having queued up in Sydney in the first place. Surely we can dispense with this nonsense of his having to queue up once or twice more in Melbourne and/or Adelaide. The second point is that, given the extra inconvenience of there being no guarantee of travel, surely the concession for the standby fare can be further reduced. It seems ludicrous that on the one hand the standby price is only $ 14 less than the budget fare and on the other hand it is $30 more than the advance purchase fare. Surely this indicates some distorted set of values on behalf of the airline companies. It does reveal to me that the standby fare was never supposed to work but was introduced only as a ruse to convince people that the airlines were doing something about reducing the cost of domestic air travel. 
When we bear in mind that standby passengers under any circumstances are only taking up seats which otherwise would have been empty, there is a very powerful argument to suggest that the concession for those people who are prepared to travel in that way should be much greater than it is at the moment. Certainly I think the fare should be less than the other lowest available fare, that is, the advance purchase excursion fare. If the standby fare were less than the APEX fare it would be at least $45 less than the budget fare, which would be far more reasonable. I raise this point because I think we have been rather preoccupied with the argument about the cost of overseas travel. I think that we need to direct far more attention to the very serious matter of the high cost of domestic transport. People in Western Australia particularly are concerned to see the introduction of a realistic new regime of cheaper air fares within Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
There is a great presumption against speaking at all at this hour of the night. Certainly there is a severe presumption against speaking at very great length. Therefore, I intend to reiterate briefly some of the points that my  deputy  leader, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made in speaking to this Bill. A couple of the points that I want to make arise from circumstances experienced by a Western Australian who has been in touch with me in relation to certain difficulties that he has had with the board which administers the principal Act. I just want to relate a couple of them so that the Government might take on board an examination of the Act with a view perhaps to introducing further amendments which will clarify the situation. I think that, as certainly Ministers of this Government have been prepared to accept, the board is constrained to act within the limits provided for by the Act; yet in some circumstances it has clearly acted in a way which is quite inconsistent with any fair reading of the Act. 
I refer specifically to section 1 3 of the principal Act and to the amendment which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has moved, in relation to sub-section (4) thereof. The point here is that whereas sub-section (4) appears to be quite clear in terms of requiring the Board to specify what further information it might want from an applicant before agreeing to a claim, the Board in fact has declined to specify what extra information it wants from the applicant on whose behalf I am speaking tonight. I refer to Paul Ritter who has been involved in a number of export oriented activities. When the Board has disputed the claim he has made and asked for extra information he has asked: 'What extra information do you require?' The Board has refused to specify what information it wanted. 
It seems to me that sub-section (4) of section 13 of the principal Act makes it perfectly clear that the Board must specify what extra information it wants from an applicant. Yet in at least some circumstances the Board has declined to do so. Indeed, in one case, the Board having refused to specify in writing the extra information required,  Mr Ritter  has travelled to Canberra to discuss the matter with the  Chairman  of the Board who has orally indicated what extra information would be required.  Mr Ritter  has subsequently provided that extra information and then the Board has turned around and said that that extra information is still insufficient. That seems to me to be not good enough. The Board must be required to specify what extra information it wants from an applicant if it is going to deny a claim on the basis of inadequate information. It seems to me that the Board should not be allowed to use its power to require extra information to deny a grant to an otherwise eligible applicant. 
I know that  Mr Ritter  has discussed this matter personally with the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and that the Minister has acknowledged that there is a difficulty. I hope that the Minister will take on board a review of this sub-section with a view perhaps to considering the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition which makes it clear beyond doubt that the Board must reasonably specify what extra information it wants from applicants before it denies a grant. In making these remarks I make it perfectly clear that I have no criticism of the recently appointed  Chairman  of the Board. He has shown me nothing but the greatest courtesy. I say in passing that it seems that some of the officials of the Board have been less than courteous at least to  Mr Ritter  and indeed to  Mrs Ritter.  I think the treatment to which the Ritters have been exposed is close to some measure of harassment. In one case one of the officials wrote to the Ritters and then the  Chairman  of the Board had to communicate with the Ritters to apologise for the fact that the official had communicated with them in terms which the  Chairman  of the Board thought were entirely inappropriate. The official in fact asserted that  Mr Ritter  had been guilty of certain illegalities in relation to the Board without  Mr Ritter  having any redress of those allegations whatsoever. I realise that it is important for the Board to have a fair amount of discretion in these matters, but I think that we have to be very clear that when an Act of Parliament prescribes the area of discretion of a board the board should be required to act within those prescribed limits. 
I want to refer briefly to two other matters. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has referred to the problem which we see in relation to clause 10 sub-clause (3) of the Bill which seems to indicate that, in relation to the value of exports coming from the sale of industrial property rights or eligible know-how, if the amount is $10,000 someone would be eligible for consideration of a grant But the point is that the clause says now that the whole of those earnings must be from the sale of industrial property rights or eligible know-how. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition quite rightly pointed out, this puts a person who has extra export earnings from another source in a particular difficulty if the total export earnings lie between $10,000 and $25,000 and may make that person ineligible even though he has $10,000 worth of export earnings coming from the sale of industrial property rights or eligible know-how. I think that that is a major fault with this Bill and I hope that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  will take on board a review of that part of the Bill. 
There is just one other area to which I wish to refer. It is mentioned in clause 10 (3) of the Bill as well. At lines 18 and 19 the expression 'eligible expenditure incurred' appears. There has been some difficulty in getting an interpretation out of the Board as to what 'expenditure incurred' actually means. Bearing in mind that the Act which was introduced in 1974 replaced the words 'payments actually made' with the words expenditure incurred' and that that change tended to free up the definition of 'eligible expenditure', we find now that the Board refuses to give a definition of 'eligible expenditure'. There seems to be some doubt as to the legal commitment the Board requires before it will accept the expenditure as being eligible expenditure, that is, before the expenditure is actually made but has been legally incurred. The Board seems to be in some doubt about what degree of commitment is involved before it is prepared to accept the expenditure as eligible expenditure. I think that it is important that these points be clarified, mainly from the point of view of small exporters who, in terms of number, are the major beneficiaries of this legislation, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out. I think that it is much more difficult for a small exporter to benefit from this legislation if he is confronted with these vagaries and inconsistencies on the part of the Board. It is quite unfair for us to expect small exporters to incur expenditure in the expectation that that will be accepted by the Board as eligible for a grant when in fact later they discover that that expenditure is not going to be accepted by the Board. I think that it is important, particularly for small exporters, that the guidelines of the Board be crystal clear. 
It is just possible that the same problem may arise in relation to another phrase in this clause. On lines 15 and 16 of clause 10 (3) at page 9 of the Bill the expression 'received, or became entitled to receive' appears. In regard to that expression we might find ourselves faced with the problem of how the Board will define an entitlement to receive. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Swan to moan about the time of day but this happens to be a very important matter to a large number of exporters in this country. The honourable member may be prepared to be frivolous about this matter, regardless of the time, but I am not. The point is that this is a measure which is supposed to be designed for the advantage of small or large exporters. The point I am trying to make is that if the Board uses its discretion in such a way as to confuse exporters then it will make it less likely that small exporters will be able to take advantage of otherwise quite useful measures. I do not intend to delay the House or, indeed, the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  any longer. The Opposition will not press its amendments but I understand that they will be moved. I hope that the Government will take on board a review of the Bill. I hope that it will bring forward early next year some amendments which will take account of the points which have been raised by the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen reports that Qantas Airways Ltd has approached Trans-Australia Airlines and 
Ansett Airlines of Australia with a proposal for the utilisation of the spare capacity of the Australian sector of international flights? Has the Minister noted that the proposal opens the way for greatly reduced fares between Sydney, Melbourne and Perth? As this proposal is in line with the recommendations of the recent review of domestic air transport policy, what action has the Minister taken to ensure the acceptance of this proposal? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) What employment programs does his department support in the Kimberley Region of Western Australia. 
How many persons are currently employed under each program. 
What is the cost of each program. 
What is the average rate of pay paid to participants in each program. 
I find myself in an extraordinary position of having to put forward some of the same arguments as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  put forward. He finds himself in a position where a Labor State government has closed down a suburban rail system, much to his consternation, and I find myself in a position where a State Liberal government in Western Australia is proceeding to do much the same thing. I agree with him that anybody who supports the idea of closing down suburban rail systems at this time is indeed short-sighted. However, one of the major deficiencies of this legislation is that it limits very much the degree to which a federal government can intervene in those sort of decision-making processes. 
This legislation is designed simply to react to proposals put forward by the States rather than to encourage the formulation and the development of sensible urban public transport systems which are consistent with overall national objectives. It is possible, and in the case of Western Australia quite likely, that the States can pursue transport policies which are inimical to the national interest. For instance the 1978 annual report of the Western Australia DirectorGeneral of Transport notes that public transport will continue to decline in metropolitan Perth and that private transportation, that is, the use of the private motor vehicle, will continue to increase. The report goes on to suggest that public transport planning in Perth should be based on those predictions. This in part follows from the fact that Perth, like many other Australian capitals, is a very low density city. It has only 12 persons to the hectare. This compares with London which has six times that many and Helsinki which has about three and a half times that many. Even Los Angeles has twice the density of Perth. Sydney and Melbourne have about one and a half times the density. Any low density city is much less likely to be able to sustain an economic transport system simply because of the low utilisation of the public transport facilities. It goes without saying that it is much harder to get the residents in any low density city close to the public transport facilities. Low density cities have a very scattered population and a very diffuse public transport system which of course is unable to provide an adequate service. 
Once having decided to pursue a policy of low density urban development it follows, in the interests of mobility and flexibility, that it is almost certain that private transportation will be the preferred method used by most people. If we compare private motor vehicle ownership in Australia with that in other countries we find that Australia is second only to the United States of America. In Australia there are 350 cars per thousand of population. In the United States of America the figure is about 400 whereas in Western Europe it is only 250 per thousand of population. This high rate of vehicle ownership and indeed the high rate of private vehicle use have a major effect on our consumption of motor spirit. Again, Australia is second only to the United States in terms of consumption of motor spirit. Whereas the United States consumes about 1,300 kilograms per head Australia uses about half of that- about 650- and Western Europe about half of that again- about 300 kilograms per person. It is here that we see the coincidence of public transport issues and national issues. We cannot separate public transport issues from, for instance, the need for a national energy policy. This Government, indeed any government with any sense at all, should be attempting to pursue some sort of national energy policy at this time. Yet any attempt to reduce the consumption of oil in this or any other country will be frustrated by higher private vehicle ownership and higher private vehicle use. 
Another aspect relates to the funding of roads which is, of course, a well established Commonwealth function. Currently the funding of roads is dealt with as if it had nothing to do with public transport issues, but of course we all know that it does. There is a direct relationship between the number of cars owned in the community and the demand for bigger and better roads. As soon as that sort of situation starts to develop, decisions have to be made as regards private vehicle ownership as opposed to the provision of public transportation. In addition, any expenditure on roads represents a separate subsidy for buses which does not appear in normal public transport allocations, thus allowing the buses to receive a subsidy separate from that which is received for trains. Therefore it follows that any provision of funds to the States for roads bears very closely on questions of public transportation and, of course, energy use. So, I would disagree with the honourable member for Denison who earlier said in his speech that it was inappropriate for the Commonwealth to get involved in urban public transportation issues. In my view, it is impossible to separate the questions of public transportation from national energy policies as indeed it is impossible to separate urban public transportation programs from many other federal programs. 
I think the energy question is no more important in any State than it is in Western Australia. Of all the States, Western Australia relies most heavily on the importation of crude oil and even when the gas from the North West Shelf comes to Perth it will have a minimal application as transport fuel. At the moment Western Australia has no electrified public transport system. Consequently, we rely solely on liquid fuels which before long will be almost entirely imported. So it is against this background that the decision of the Western Australian Government to scrap the Perth to Fremantle passenger rail service is so absurd. 
The Western Australian Government has announced that, after September this year, the passenger rail service will cease and that extra buses will serve the routes between Perth and Fremantle. We are told that two years from now the railway itself will be dismantled and a freeway will be constructed on the railway reserve. We are given little if any justification for the decision except that the patronage of the railways is on the decline and that the subsidy per passenger is less in the case of buses than in the case of trains. However, no explanation is given for the fact that patronage of the suburban railways increased by over 10 per cent last year while at the same time patronage of the bus services continued to decline. 
We are not told whether the subsidy calculation includes a component of the interest on fixed capital. If it does, this would be a great distortion of the situation given the fact that buses rely on roads which are separately and, I might add, heavily subsidised while trains require separate capital equipment in the form of rails. We are not told about the extra contribution that buses will make to the already congested roadways between Perth and Fremantle. We are not told about the costs of the proposed freeway which it is intended will be built on the railway reserve. Indeed, the decision bears all the hallmarks of a knee-jerk reaction to the immediate deficit which has been chalked up by the railways. 
It was only in August 1975 that the Premier of Western Australia said that the adverse economies of rail operations compared with bus operations over the next 20 years were understood, but that the Government believed that the long term considerations could not be overlooked. He went on to say that the Government wanted to maintain the passenger rail service at a maximum level. That is what was said by the Premier a little over three years ago but now we have had a complete change of heart, based we are not sure on what, resulting in a decision to scrap one of the passenger rail services serving metropolitan Perth. 
Let us compare that particular about-face with a statement by a former Liberal Minister for Transport in the Western Australian Government. In 1968 that Minister ridiculed the proposal to build a freeway between Perth and Fremantle on the railway reserve. At that timeabout 10 years ago- he costed such a project at $50m and said that that was an astronomic expense which could not be justified. As well we have the opinion of Professor Gordon Stephenson, a man who has had more influence on the planning of Perth than probably any other individual. Earlier this month, Professor Stephenson said in reply to a letter from the Minister for Transport in the Western Australian Government: 
Despite the length of his letter I was unable to understand the planning strategy behind the change in function of the reserve. 
What is desperately needed in metropolitan Perth is not only an explanation how the Government arrived at this absurd decision, but also some justification for it and some indication of what are the long-term prospects for those people who reside in metropolitan Perth. It is not enough to discount a public transport system simply on the basis of economics. It is probably true that no public transport system will pay in a city like Perth because of it low population density. But Perth has a low population density by deliberate choice, a choice made on grounds other than economics. The decision to pursue a policy of low density planning for Perth was the result of the high priority given to such factors as the desirability of single residential accommodation, the proximity of recreational facilities and open space, the desirability of maintaining a clean environment and reduced sanitation problems. So clearly, because the planning decisions in Perth are based on grounds other than economic grounds, it is quite unfair to evaluate public transport issues on purely economic grounds. It has been stated that, of all the mainland capitals, Perth has the worst public transport facilities. Of course what we need is to see those public transport facilities improved in accordance with some well laid out plan that, in the Premier's own words of a few years ago, takes into consideration the long-term implications of those decisions. 
I do not think that one can over-emphasise the importance of the energy considerations in this equation. As I have said, Western Australia already relies disproportionately on imported liquid fuels and, as the price of those imported liquid fuels continues to escalate, there will be serious repercussions for the transportation system in metropolitan Perth. The only indigenous fuels which Western Australia has consist of the gas from the North West Shelf, that is, not counting the gas at Dongara, which of course will soon be depleted, and the coal at Collie. We will be relying on that for the generation of electricity. It seems to me that what we should be doing at the very least is trying to make ourselves as independent as possible of the vagaries of the international oil market. We should be moving towards a public transportation system which relies substantially on electricity. 
For this reason it seems to me that the Government is making a serious mistake in opting purely for buses in the development of a public transportation system in Perth. I think that this decision has been made quite deliberately. For instance, if we look at the requests of the Western Australian State Government to the Federal Government for support under this program and the preceding program, we find that the State Government has asked ibr almost nothing to upgrade the State's suburban rail system. Indeed, under the program set out in the legislation that we are debating tonight, the Western Australian State Government did not ask for a cent in relation to the suburban rail system for the current year. The only requests that were made were in relation to upgrading and expanding the State's bus service. There can be no lame excuses that it is all the fault of the Commonwealth Government that the State Government has had to scrap a suburban railway line. The State Government has made no attempt at all to invest the sort of capital which would be required to continue the rail systems. 
A study made by the Bureau of Transport Economics some years ago indicated that whether the Government chose the bus option or the train option between Perth and Fremantle it would be involved in a vast capital expense. Yet nothing has been done by the Western Australian Government to approach the Federal Government with a view to providing that capital infusion. Instead the railways have been allowed to decline steadily. The newest rolling stock on the suburban rail system is already 11 years old. Most of the rolling stock is well beyond its economic life. There have been very few attempts to have the bus and train services complement each other. Only in the Midland area is there a serious attempt to use the buses to feed the railway system between the Midland Station and Perth. I note with some interest that there will be an attempt to use a bus feeder system between Perth and Armadale to serve the railway line. I simply ask why that is not a possibility on the line between Perth and Fremantle. Instead there is direct competition between buses and trains to serve almost identical routes between Perth and Fremantle. 
Not only has this been a deliberate attempt to downgrade the railways in favour of the buses, it also overlooks the studies which have been done in relation to Perth's future public transport needs. Both the Neilsen report and the Wilbur Smith report made in the early 1970s indicated that by 1993, which was the end of the period under consideration, it would probably be necessary to consider other options besides the bus option which was preferred by both those studies. We are already one-third of the way through the period with which those reports were concerned. I imagine that the circumstances which are clearer now than then will indicate the good sense of that observation by those studies. By 1993 it is almost certain that we will want to consider options other than a bus service fuelled by imported liquid fuels. We are seeing the beginning of another very expensive mistake by a State Liberal government. I do not have to remind honourable members about the occasion when an earlier State Liberal government converted a perfectly good coal burning power station south of Perth to an oil burning power station only to have to convert it back to coal only in the last couple of years at the cost of about $9m. 
In this issue the Federal Government has to take a strong stand. In the first instance, before the State Government is allowed to share in the funds available under this program, the Federal Government must insist that a proper evaluation is made of the electrification of the existing suburban rail system in Perth. Secondly it must indicate its total opposition to a super freeway between Perth and Fremantle and indicate that it will not support that freeway with federal funds at least until such time as an evaluation of the electrified rail system option is undertaken. 
The Prime Minister will recall that last year he was asked whether he subscribed to the philosophy that all members of Parliament should disclose the assets, liabilities and tax returns of their wives and families. In reply he expressed the view that such dependants should be exempt from such disclosures. I ask whether he stills holds this view and whether he has transmitted it to the inquiry which is being conducted under  Mr Justice  Bowen. Is there any special reason why the Prime Minister should take this view? 
-Due to the temporary absence of the Opposition's spokesman on business and consumer affairs, it is my pleasure to stand here as an almost life-size replica of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and to respond to the Excise Amendment Bill 1979 on behalf of the Opposition. In what must be one of the shortest second reading speeches in history the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  indicated that the main purpose of this Bill is to simplify and to streamline procedures relating to the export of excisable goods. Instead of the exporters of these goods having to furnish returns on a shipment by shipment basis, the amendment will require that exporters file returns only on a periodic basis. This will simplify the documentation associated with exports when excisable goods are involved and hopefully will lead to economies for both government and industry. 
Needless to say, the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. Anything which reduces the torpor of needless bureaucratic process is welcomed by the Opposition. Whilst this measure is simple and its effects almost trivial in the context of overall trade policy, nevertheless it is indicative of the kind of reform which can yield great benefit, particularly to small exporters to whom extra administration and paper work represent a very substantial burden. We know that small business makes an important contribution to Australia's export performance, at least in the field of manufactured exports and in the export of skills and ideas. Indeed, it has often been small firms which have made important breakthroughs into overseas markets. These are the firms on which Australia is going to rely for any horizontal expansion of its export activities. Yet these are the firms for which entry into export markets holds the greatest risks. Administrative complexities represent another disincentive to these small firms. Having to master the intricacies of foreign markets, languages and business practice is difficult enough, without having a minefield of rules and procedures to contend with at home. Therefore, the Government should accelerate its efforts to remove as many as possible of the administrative barriers which currently daunt prospective exporters. 
Not only restrictive government practice but also the attitude of other domestic business houses, particularly financial institutions, can frustrate exporters. For so long have our banks been geared primarily to internal business transactions that they lack the kind of imagination which is necessary to support export activities, particularly those of new exporters. Indeed, we are told of an incident where a local manufacturer with a $15m order, which was irrevocable and guaranteed by a major American bank, had to abandon the deal simply because he could not find a banking institution which was ready to lend him the $3m necessary for the expansion. Of course, this would never have happened in countries such as France, Germany or Japan, where the economic activity is geared to promote exports. This incident happened only a few years ago. Much more has to be done to remove these sorts of impediments to trade. 
Indeed, it is important to recognise these particular barriers at a time when the Government is embarking on an export consciousness extravaganza which, it has been said, is essentially a talking-up or jawboning exercise. It is important to direct the Government's attention to the need for reforms in procedures and in other areas which bear on the ability of exporters to enter into overseas markets. These necessary reforms in government and business procedures are at least as important as high-powered government promotion campaigns. 
One might mention, as another example, the need for a faculty for translation services for would-be Australian exporters. We have just witnessed the belated discovery by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  of the great opportunities which exist for Australian exports in the Persian Gulf. Yet as recently as 1976 the only language translation facility in Western Australia at least was provided by the Department of Economics at the University of Western Australia. In 1976, during an eight month period, 1 13 firms approached the Department of Economics for the translation of 562 documents. 
Clearly a basic requirement for entry to the Persian Gulf market is an ability to correspond with agents and generally to cope with language differences. There is little point in enthusing would-be exporters if there are other serious barriers to their entry to export markets. 
Indeed, in this context it is intriguing to note that the Crawford report on structural adjustment, which was tabled in the Parliament only this afternoon, was critical of one of the Government's major export promotion programs, that being the export expansion grants scheme. This scheme is a foundation stone to the Export Now campaign and yet it was severely criticised by the Crawford report. The report was in general agreement with the overall package of the government in relation to export development. At page 7. 1 6 the report states: 
The Study Groups major reservation with the enlarged package is that the initial inducement - 
That is the one provided by the export expansion grants scheme. it contains is not large enough. 
It seems that the Government's Export Now promotion campaign is indeed founded on a scheme which the Crawford report has found to be inadequate. The Opposition pointed to a number of shortcomings in the Government's new export development package, and I make the prediction that a number of amendments will be necessary in the very near future to overcome some of the difficulties which exist in that legislation which was passed late last year. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It welcomes the further attempt to free up the procedures which confront exporters. The Opposition urges the Government to pursue this line of activity with all vigour. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that the Dampier salt operation near Carnarvon has closed down as a result of Cyclone Hazel? Will the Prime Minister ensure that Australian Government assistance is available, both to the company to hasten its reopening and to the employees, numbering about 100, who have now been retrenched? Can the Prime Minister say whether these workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the cyclone are considered to be victims in the same way as people who have lost property? If the current Commonwealth-State arrangements for disaster relief do not include this kind of assistance, will the Prime Minister amend those arrangements? 
-We need no other indication of the parlous and bankrupt state of the Hamer Government if the only apologist it can find in this place is the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu).  It was not so much the inaccuracies of his speech that concerned me but the rank stupidity of most of the assertions he made. However, I am indebted to him for acknowledging a remark I made in this Parliament when I first came here in 1974. One of the more accurate things he said was when he quoted a remark I made about home ownership. How much more true now are those observations in view of the accelerated decline in the proportion of people who are able to own their own homes as a result of the policies of the Fraser Government. However, I do not intend to dwell on that issue. 
I want to talk about something that is of concern to Western Australians. The recent statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on international civil aviation policy was a matter of great disappointment for Western Australians. The statement was very long on claims of success for the new low air fare policy in relation to international travel but very short on the solutions to the continuing problems faced by Western Australians. In the absence of solutions to those serious problems, Western Australians continue to be imprisoned by distance, an imprisonment imposed by the high cost of air travel. This problem has basically three facets. The first facet relates to the anomalies in the new international air fare arrangements. Let me take a couple of examples. If one lives in Sydney and wants to travel to the west coast of the United States of America, one can do so for as low as $450. But if one lives in Perth, one first has to pay about $400 in order to get to Sydney to take advantage of these new air fares. 
Again, in relation to the cost of travel to European centres other than London, a person from Perth has to pay nearly twice as much as a person from Melbourne or Sydney. For instance, Jugoslovenski Aerotransport has a service from Sydney to Belgrade. The lowest cost of that flight is $564. If one is travelling from Perth to Belgrade, one first has either to travel from Perth to Sydney to join the JAT flight, or one has to travel from Perth to London and then on to Belgrade. Either way, one has to pay an extra $400 when compared with the traveller from Sydney or Melbourne. There is a large Yugoslav community in Western Australia and its members are anxious to travel to their homeland. They are disadvantaged to the extent of $400 when compared with people in other parts of Australia. There is a need for the Minister to immediately arrange to remove these exclusions which Western Australians suffer in relation to the new international air fare regime. 
We all welcome the new air fares, but I think we are entitled to demand that they should be available to Australians wherever they live. This problem is further exacerbated for nonmetropolitan residents. For instance, let us take as an example residents of Port Hedland. They are faced with an extra $250 just to get to Perth before being confronted with, say, an extra $400 to travel to Sydney in order to have access to fares to the west coast of America or to European centres other than London. This is a serious problem. I realise it is faced by people in other parts of Australia, particularly in Adelaide. But this is one area which the Government seems to have failed to recognise. In relation to these problems the Minister only said that negotiations were continuing in relation to add-on fares. I am afraid that we can find little solace in that and it seems to me that very much more action is needed from the Minister for Transport before Western Australians can take full advantage of the new cheap international air travel. 
The second facet to which I refer is that the new international air fare regime has revealed the very high cost of interstate air travel. This is felt more in Western Australia than in any other capital city in Australia. Perth is the most isolated capital in the world and there we know all about the high cost of travel to other places. It is now much more enticing for people to leave Australia than it is for them to holiday within Australia. For instance, people living in Sydney have to pay about the same amount to visit Perth as they have to visit Honolulu or the west coast of the United States. As a result of this sort of anomaly having crept in, we find that the tourist industry in Western Australia is already depressed to the extent of about 20 per cent when compared with the situation last year. This will have a great effect on the accommodation industry and on all kinds of related industries which rely on tourism. I think this is only the beginning. As more people realise that it is cheaper to travel overseas than it is to travel within Australia, then Perth in particular will suffer. 
Let us take as an illustration people who are visiting Australia from overseas and who come from the west coast of the United States. They have already paid $450 to get to Sydney. It is unlikely that they will pay another $400 just to get to Perth. Clearly there is a need to overhaul the whole basis of the domestic air fare policy in order to overcome some of these anomalies. 
One of the other anomalies which is experienced by people living in Perth is that of parallel scheduling of flights. Nowhere is the problem more acute than it is in Perth. As a result of parallel services, we find that all flights in and out of Perth are concentrated on just two parts of the day. Both the problem in relation to extending access to international travel and the problem of improving interstate travel can be overcome, to some extent at least, by embracing one of the recommendations of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review report. This report indicates that a large number of empty seats are being carried by international carriers across Australia. The number could be up to 70,000 empty seats going in each direction across Australia, that is, between Perth and either Sydney or Melbourne. The cost of the trans-Australian sector of those international flights is about $150. I fail to see why those 70,000-odd seats could not be made available for people travelling to and from Perth for a price of about $150. That $150 compares with the current cost of travel across Australia from Perth to Sydney of around $400. 1 cannot see why we should continue to maintain a separation between seats which just happen to be available in aeroplanes operated by international operators and aeroplanes operated by domestic operators. The point is that those seats are meant to be filled with people and when they are not they represent an extravagant waste. Qantas Airways Ltd has already put a proposal concerning this matter and the only obstacle which seems to be in the way of its acceptance is the attitude of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. No doubt it has something to do with the embarrassment that Ansett now faces as a result of the crash of Associated Securities Ltd. But for how much longer do Western Australian travellers have to pay for the faulty business acumen of  Sir Reginald  Ansett? For how much longer is this Government going to protect and shield this man? This pampered Perseus has lost his magic sandals, and I do not see why Western Australians should have to foot the bill. 
This brings me to the third facet which relates to intrastate travel and which is dominated by the attitude of  Sir Reginald  Ansett. We find that fares in Western Australia for intrastate flights when compared with comparable intrastate flights in other States, using comparable routes and aircraft, are 20 per cent to 25 per cent higher. This is despite the fact that there is only a 20 per cent cost recovery by the Federal Government in relation to air navigation charges as compared with, say, 75 per cent in relation to interstate flights. Again we are finding that Ansett in Western Australia is being protected by this Government. The cost recovery is such that intrastate travel in Western Australia is being subsidised more lavishly than interstate flights. MacRobertson Miller Airline Services is reputed to be the most profitable operator in the Ansett stable and still we find that no government is prepared to move to ensure that Western Australians travelling within their own State or to other States can get a fair deal with air travel. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Home Affairs aware that a major dispute has developed on Christmas Island as a result of the action of the British Phosphate Commission in employing non-union European workers in place of a small number of striking Asian workers? In fact, is it true that the whole of the Asian work force on the island has now ceased work? Is it also true that the BPC seems intent on escalating the dispute into a race war by closing the company store to all Asian residents and by collecting the refuse of only European residents? Will the Minister intervene to ensure that the BPC desists from this madness? 
-The whole of the funding arrangements for this shabby deal have not been explained by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  There is no question on this side of the House whether there is a need for a Minister for Finance to have an advance account. Everybody accepts that. What we argue is, to use the Minister's terms, whether the good judgment of the Minister was used on this occasion. Officers of his own Department said at a Senate Committee inquiry into the guidelines for the use of that account that the use of the account was for urgent and special circumstances and not just for convenience. The Minister himself a few moments ago said that it should be used for circumstances which are neither foreseen nor foreseeable. 
It was known in August 1974 that Qantas Airways Ltd had two Boeing 707 aeroplanes available for purchase by the Government. In fact, Qantas offered those planes to the Government. It still had those planes while the latest negotiations were proceeding. The Government knew that if it could find no other aeroplanes the Qantas planes would be available. On 5 May last year, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  announced in the House a decision to purchase two aeroplanes for the overseas trips of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was expected at that time that the aeroplanes would be the Boeing 727-100 series. It was known well before the last Budget that the Government intended to make this purchase. It is quite unsatisfactory for the Minister for Finance to say that the purchase was neither foreseen nor foreseeable. Of course it was known. The whole futile exercise of running around the world looking for 727 aircraft was a ruse to keep us guessing. The whole exercise has been one in which we have had to extract the facts instalment by instalment. 
I repeat that the Government first announced that it would make this purchase in May. In July the overseas investigation group returned saying that it could find no aeroplanes. In October with a sense of panic the Government put pressure on Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia asking them each to release one of their aircraft for this purpose. Ansett and TAA would not respond. The Government then decided in December that it would purchase two aeroplanes from Qantas for about $ 14.5m. In February this year it was discovered that as a result of crass bungling on the part of the Government it had underestimated the need for urgent and crucial modifications to the aeroplanes which would lift the price from $ 14.5m to over $2Om 
There is absolutely no doubt that the Prime Minister was determined from the word go that he would get planes of one kind or another in order to pamper himself when travelling overseas. The Prime Minister has been absolutely determined. The whole exercise has revealed the two most disturbing aspects about him. The first is his obsession with his own comforts and convenience. The second is his determination to get his own way regardless of the consequences. It is because the Prime Minister was so determined that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when introducing the Budget last year could have been certain that the Government would have a commitment to make a purchase of this kind in one way or another. If it is true that this purchase was unforeseen and unforeseeable, why did the Government not come clean and explain that it intended to use the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the purpose of the purchase. This fact had to be extracted reluctantly from officers of the Department of Finance at a meeting of a Senate committee. Only under considerable duress did they come clean. 
That was not the only evidence of deception. On 13 December the Minister for Defence said that the funds for the purchase would not come from the Defence budget. Because of the failure to recognise the need for modification, the extra cost above $14.5m will come from the Defence budget. Some of it will come from this year's Defence budget and some of it will come from next year's Defence budget. What about the cost of retraining staff to man these aeroplanes? It has been estimated at $ lm. That will also come from the Defence budget. The Government has said that it will spend money from sources other than the Defence budget. In December last year the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  said that it would be appropriated by a special vote. A reasonable person would expect that a special measure would be introduced into the Parliament in relation to this purchase in just the same way as special Bills are introduced to guarantee a loan to Qantas when it wants to purchase aeroplanes for its own airline. 
Why can a special Bill not be introduced to appropriate funds for this purchase? The purchase will be buried in an appropriation Bill to be introduced next week. The catch is that it is impossible for anyone to tamper with an appropriation Bill without rejecting the whole Bill. The Minister knows that very well. The funds for this purchase will be buried in a large appropriation involving many vital expenditures. Dissident Government senators will not be allowed to tamper with the appropriation Bill and withdraw the funds for this purchase. My prediction is that if Government senators were given the opportunity to reject this measure they would join with the Opposition and reject it out of hand. They know that pensioners are being asked to forego twice-yearly adjustments to their pensions and that this is an entirely inappropriate time for $40m to be spent for the sake of the Prime Minister's own convenience and comfort. 
It is worth mentioning that during the debate in February this year when it was proposed that the twice-yearly adjustments be re-introduced, the Government said that it was an outrageous suggestion that it could suddenly find the extra money necessary to do this. The Government said that it would have to recast the whole Budget in order to find the necessary $28m to pay the pensioners and that if it had increased expenditure at that stage it would have had a devastating effect on the inflation rate. What a different set of standards the Government has when it comes to the provision of the Prime Minister's comforts. How easy it is to find $40m to purchase flying penthouses to transport the Prime Minister around the world. Honourable members do not have to take my word for this. The  Newcastle Morning Herald  described the purchase as a 'monstrous self-indulgent extravagance '. The  Sydney Morning Herald  is very cautious. It stated: 
It is hard to avoid a suspicion of self-indulgence on the Prime Minister's part. 
Compare this situation with the Prime Minister's remarks in November 1975. He said that he would 'end government extravagance and excesses'. This purchase is an outrageous extravagance, particularly when measured alongside the Government's penny-pinching approach to the pensioners of this country. Nobody argues that it is not necessary to provide special transport for the Prime Minister. No member on this side argues that the Prime Minister should travel around the world in commercial aeroplanes. In fact, it was Gough Whitlam who established the precedent of chartering aeroplanes for the purpose of crucial overseas visits. But let us compare the costs involved. In this case we are looking at a purchase price alone of $21m. The Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  has acknowledged that it will cost $4.5m a year to maintain and service these aeroplanes. 
-If the honourable member for Dundas will keep quiet, I will continue. Compare $4.5m with the $180,000 that it cost the Prime Minister of the day, Gough Whitlam, to charter a plane from Qantas to travel to Europe.  His  much-criticised visit to Europe cost $180,000. The cost of running the proposed aircraft is estimated to be $4.5m a year, let alone the $21m to buy them. Heaven knows how many million dollars it will cost the Government to land the planes at Canberra and even for them to land and take off at the base at Richmond where they will be housed. They cannot even use the Richmond airstrip. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I do not want to speak for too long, but I want to make a few remarks. First of all, I welcome enthusiastically the decision of the Government to prevent the export of whale products from Australia and essentially to prevent the re-emergence of any whaling industry in this country. However, I think there are a couple of deficiencies in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this morning to which I would like to refer briefly. The first deficiency is that apparently the Government is prepared to make no effort to overcome the problems which Albany has obviously had to face up to as a result of the closure of the Cheynes Beach whaling station. It is true that the closure was announced during the currency of the Inquiry into Whales and Whaling and cannot be seen as a direct consequence of either the Inquiry or the Government's decision to close down or prevent whaling in this country. 
I think it is worth referring to the debate which took place in this House in May last year on the Fisheries Amendment Bill. At that time the Opposition moved an amendment which said: 
Whilst not opposing the second reading, the House calls upon the Government to alter the Frost Royal Commission terms of reference, requiring the Commission to submit positive proposals to guarantee increased marine resources employment in the Albany region, prior to declaring a moratorium on whaling. 
I was one of those who contributed to that debate, and I made the point that it was terribly important for the Government to ensure that if a decision was made to close down the Cheynes Beach whaling station adequate arrangements must be made for the hundred or so workers and their families who would, as a consequence, be put out of work. I argued that case fairly strenuously, I thought, but at the end of the debate  Mr Viner,  who was acting for the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  indicated, when he was referring to our amendment, that the terms of reference were wide enough. He said: 
With regard to the particular matter referred to in the foreshadowed amendment relating to employment in the Albany region, I remind the Opposition that the terms of reference already require the judge to report on economic, employment and other effects on the Albany region should a cessation of whaling be recommended. I am quite sure that those terms of reference are adequate for the judge and that he will be able to direct his attention to the implications for employment of any cessation of whaling, if that should be recommended. 
The point I make is that the Inquiry did not refer to the question of the employment consequences of the closure of Cheynes Beach. All the Inquiry directed its attention to was the question of compensation. I think, quite properly, the inquiry said that seeing that the Cheynes Beach closure was announced before the Inquiry had concluded it obviously had closed down as a result of market pressures working against the products of Cheynes Beach. In effect it was saying that whether or not the Inquiry had been set up and regardless of any Government decision which might flow from the Inquiry, Cheynes Beach would have closed down as a result of its inability either to sell sufficient whale products or alternatively to receive an adequate price. 
It seems to me that compensation is one matter, but quite a separate matter is the making of appropriate arrangements for those people who are displaced from the whaling industry. I think it is a broader issue than simply the Government deciding to prevent the continuation or the reemergence of whaling in this country. I think the real point that has to be addressed is how now and in the future we should deal with the inevitable conflict which arises between certain conservation issues and the interests of the work force. Of course, the case is much stronger when for conservation reasons one decides to close down an industry than it is, say, when an industry is prevented from commencing. Nevertheless, I think the conflict exists and it will continue to exist in the future. We must work out ways in which we can deal with that conflict. It seems to me that we will be able to resolve these conservation-type issues only when we are able to deal adequately with that conflict. It is no good enforcing a point of view on conservation grounds on a work force which is enthusiastic about an industry which, for conservation reasons, will not be allowed to start or will be closed down. Therefore, in the interests of ensuring that the cause of conservation receives the support of the wider community, I think the Government should have looked at the question of providing encouragement to the Albany region so that the displaced workers could have found alternative employment. It seems to me that the Prime Minister's statement disregards that question completly. As we said last May, the terms of reference did not adequately deal with that question. As a consequence, the inquiry did not at all deal with the question of providing alternative employment for the workers of Albany. 
I think the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  will agree with me that the whaling industry was an important industry for Albany. I think the enthusiasm of the Albany residents for the continuation of whaling was more a reflection of their interest in the 100 or so jobs involved than it was an indication of their enthusiasm for the slaughter of whales. Whilst the honourable member can say that the support for the closure of the Cheynes Beach whaling station increased the further the people involved were removed from Albany, I think this really does not tell us anything except that the people of Albany were interested in retaining their jobs. So I do not think that we ought to be involved in a situation in which we appear to be picking on Albany particularly because the whaling industry happens to be located there. It is not Albany's fault. It is not the fault of the 100 workers that the last remaining whaling station in Australia was located at Albany. 
The decison to close the whaling station was clearly made as a result of community pressures throughout Australia and as a result of an assessment of world-wide scientific research which suggests that to continue to slaughter these great beasts is insupportable. 
There is no question on that aspect. Of course whaling should cease throughout the world. But Australia would not have a leg to stand on if it argued against whaling by the Japanese or the Russians while it supported the maintenance of a whaling station on its shores. The point I am trying to make is that the people of Albany should not be singled out for harsh treatment in relation to this matter. We should accept on behalf of the whole community the decision to close down this station or, as events will occur, to prevent its reopening and to prevent the export of whale products in the future. It seems to me that, in recognition of the hardship which this decision has caused the people of Albany, this Government should have made adequate attempts to provide alternative employment. Many of the people engaged in the industry have worked in no other industry. Many of them are well past middle age and they have only a remote opportunity of finding anything like similar employment. It is probably unlikely that many of them will be able to get work at all. It seems to me that, without some effort by this Government, we will not be able to ensure that the people of Albany will be fairly treated. 
The industry has been operating in Albany for a very long time. I do not think that just because the whaling station happened to be located in Albany and just because the Australian people as a whole support its closure Albany itself and alone should bear the adverse consequences of that decision. So, even at this late stage I urge the Government to reconsider this question and to take some initiative to provide alternative employment for the workers who were displaced from the whaling station. My comments do not relate to this important issue only. I think that in our future consideration of conservation issues we need to be able to demonstrate that, when we take decisions on conservation grounds, we will not pick on that minority of people who are directly involved. I think that conservation decisions are made because of community pressure as a whole and, therefore, the community as a whole ought to bear the burden of those decisions. 
-The collection of measures being debated tonight raises the important issue of Australia's attempts to decolonise its remaining external territories. Insofar as that is true, I think these issues are of very great importance and that the principles which we use to guide us in relation to Norfolk Island might need to be extended to our other external territories of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island. 
The Opposition is firmly of the view that it is high time Australia took action to remove its colonial or near-colonial presence from Norfolk Island. At a time when the rest of the Pacific is emerging from colonial status it is quite anomalous for Australia still to be supporting what is essentially a colony but still a part of Australia. The Opposition takes the view that there are no half measures. We cannot avoid the question of Norfolk Island being part of Australia; yet at the same time we cannot be seen to be preventing the people who have lived there for so long from continuing to live in the way they have for so long. We are determined to ensure that they are allowed to exercise a real sense of selfgovernment. 
So I think there are really two important principles on which the Australian Labor Party's policy on Norfolk Island is based. Firstly, there is the clear acceptance by the Opposition that the principle of self-government should be firmly established on Norfolk Island. This can be achieved, we maintain, by giving real power to a democratically elected local assembly. We believe that the Government is, to some extent, on the right track in proposing a legislative assembly, but then it goes on to circumvent the powers of that legislative assembly to the extent that it does not really exercise self-government in any real sense. We believe that there is the ability to expand very greatly the areas in which the legislative assembly ought to have complete authority to act without the spectre of the Government's veto hanging over its head. 
The second principle on which we base the policy which we firmly establish is that the island is part of Australia and that we ought to ensure that, insofar as it is possible, the conditions on Norfolk Island are not inferior to the conditions on the Australian mainland. This raises the very vexed question of the extension of welfare provisions to the island and the concomitant extension of taxation laws. It is well known that the residents of Norfolk Island are totally opposed to the extension of these provisions to Norfolk Island, but my view and the view of the Opposition is that there is no real alternative but to take this course. In the first place, we cannot leave the young, the aged and the infirm to chance as they are at the moment. We must ensure for the island a social security and a health system no less adequate than the system that exists on the Australian mainland. In our view, this can be done only if we extend the Australian welfare system to the island. Once the fairly elaborate welfare system which exists in Australia is extended to Norfolk Island, then the unavoidable consequence is that we must also extend to the island the taxation laws which apply on the Australian mainland. 
Another consequence is the question of representation of the people of the island in this Parliament. The Opposition is quite unequivocal that we ought to take up in some form or other the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Nimmo that the islanders ought to be represented in this Parliament. It is a matter of debate, I suppose, as to how this can be done most adequately. The Nimmo report suggests that Norfolk Island ought to be incorporated into the electorate of Canberra. We are not wedded to this view particularly, but we think that some provision ought to be made for the people of that island to be represented in this Parliament in some way. It should not be beyond our wit to work out a way in which their views can be adequately expressed in this Parliament without it disturbing the normal constitutional arrangements which exist in Australia. 
I refer to an article by Grundy and Wettenhall which was published on 1 October 1977. They talk at some length on this question of representation in the national Parliament. They tend to dismiss the Nimmo recommendation of incorporating Norfolk Island into the electorate of Canberra on the basis that that would not necessarily secure the islanders any representation at all. They go on to argue some alternative arrangements which might be considered. They even go to the extent of suggesting that a special constituency ought to be established to provide for representation in this Parliament of the Norfolk Islanders. We are not dogmatic about this. This is obviously a matter that has to be thought about very carefully, but one thing which is unavoidable is that there must be some form of representation in this Parliament. It is not enough for us to say that because the people of Norfolk Island themselves do not particularly want to be represented in this Parliament they should not be. I do not think that that is the basis on which we should proceed at all. The question for Australia as a whole is whether we can continue to justify a situation in which people are Australians but do not have a voice in this Parliament. I think this is a matter of international responsibility for Australia and one on which we have got to act very quickly to ensure that the franchise is extended to these people. 
I said in the beginning that I think the issues which we are considering here are of importance not only to Norfolk Island but to the other remaining external territories of Australia. The principles to which the Opposition is wedded on the question of Norfolk Island are equally applicable to Christmas Island. I think the situation in the case of Christmas Island is undeniably different. However, it is one which deserves probably even more urgent attention than the situation on Norfolk Island. Again we have a situation on Christmas Island where there are no welfare provisions for residents, except a very unsatisfactory ad hoc arrangement. There are aged and infirm people on Christmas Island whose standard of living would be quite unacceptable on the Australian mainland. 
If we look at the wage structure on Christmas Island, the conditions pertaining there, particularly among the Asian work force, would be totally unacceptable on the Australian mainland. All of this has come about because the industrial laws of the Commonwealth as a whole do not extend to these island territories. It seems to me that we ought to ensure that some adequate form of industrial protection and regulation is provided in those external territories. I find it a quite shameful experience to discover, on visiting Christmas Island, which is part of Australia, that we support a situation in which wages paid to Asian employees are well below half the rate which would be paid to people performing the same work on the Australian mainland. 
The Parliament is talking about crucial questions tonight. I do not think that the fact we are talking specifically about Norfolk Island obscures the fact that we also have to turn our attention to the other external territories. Therefore I am particularly concerned that the proper principles should underly our approach to Norfolk Island. Quite frankly, I am left with the conclusion that the Government has really tried to have two bob each way in relation to Norfolk Island. It has attempted to go some way to meet the self-government desires of the Norfolk Islanders and yet if falls well short of what I think is possible and, indeed, acceptable. We have not found it difficult, for instance, to extend a fair measure of self-government to the Northern Territory. Why cannot we extend the same sort of arrangements to the Territory of Norfolk Island? Again, we find that the Government baulks at the question of the extension of taxation and welfare provisions to Norfolk Island, still leaving it with a no-man's land relationship with Australia. I do not think there should be any half measures as far as this matter is concerned. 
In terms of our international reputation I think we have to move to a situation in which a real sense of self-government applies on the island. In addition, we have to recognise that Norfolk Island is a part of Australia. We have to provide the appropriate constitutional changes to allow representation in this Parliament of its residents. I hope that the Government will give careful consideration to the amendments which are proposed by the Opposition. Once the question of Norfolk Island has been dealt with, I urge the Government to move as quickly as possible to extend the principles of self-government and representation in this Parliament to the other external territories of Australia. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The clauses we are debating at the moment are those which relate to the basic relationship between the mainland of Australia- the Commonwealth of Australia- and Norfolk Island. I take the opportunity to clear up a couple of misconceptions which apparently were gained at least by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  from the remarks I made last night. The honourable member for Sturt indicated that he was confused by what I had to say. I want briefly to try to clarify the situation from my point of view. It seems to me that in the first instance we cannot deny- as far as I can gather, nobody seeks to deny- that Norfolk Island is a part of Australia. If we take that as a basic assumption then it seems to me that in relation to Norfolk Island Australia has a number of international obligations. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  indicated a few moments ago the fact that in respect of the control of fishing off Norfolk Island Australia does have international obligations. Therefore, the Minister is saying he cannot simply allow the Legislative Assembly of 
Norfolk Island to have unfettered power in that regard. He is saying that in relation to fisheries, because there are international obligations, it is up to the Commonwealth of Australia to regulate fishing off Norfolk Island in exactly the same way as it regulates fishing off other parts of Australia. 
That is one instance where the Minister and I are on common ground. What I do assert is that there are several other areas in which Australia does have international obligations. For instance, if we take the question of welfare, which the Minister seems to believe is an area which can develop over a number of years, it seems to me that the welfare of the people of Norfolk Island at this time is of major concern to the people of Australia. We do have international obligations to see that the people of Norfolk Island, whatever their circumstances, are able to live with a fair measure of dignity. Therefore, we do have obligations to ensure that the income security measures at Norfolk Island are at least as good as they are in other parts of Australia. That is another area in which I think we have to assert that Australia as a whole must insist that at least a minimum standard of welfare should apply on Norfolk Island. 
We have international obligations as far as wages and other industrial relations matters are concerned. Therefore, it seems to me that the amendments which the Opposition will move later this evening are perfectly consistent with that attitude. What we are trying to do is to make appropriate arrangements for the regulation of industrial relations and other aspects of employment on Norfolk Island. That is because we do have international obligations as far as those matters are concerned. What I think we can conclude from this is that here are a number of areas in which, through international obligations, Australia as a whole must ensure that certain minimum standards obtain on Norfolk Island in exactly the same way as they obtain in the rest of Australia. Therefore, it goes without saying, I guess, that these are areas in which we cannot allow completely unfettered self-government. 
Having said that, what we can say is that there is an enormous number of other areas in which we can provide very much more self-government than has been provided in the Government's Bill. I suppose the point is that, in relation to those areas in which we do have international obligations, we must have legislative and overriding safeguards to ensure that the conditions on Norfolk Island are no less than they are in Australia as a whole. But, apart from those areas, we should be saying to the people of Norfolk 
Island that they can do exactly as they please as long as they do not transgress basic conditions in Australia or embarrass Australia internationally. Therefore, what we are saying is that, having taken out those areas- the Minister for Home Affairs has already said that fisheries is one area which should be taken out; we are just saying that there are a couple of others which should be taken out also- we ought to provide a very much larger measure of self-government than the Government is prepared to give the people of Norfolk Island in this respect. 
Perhaps one of my oversights last night was made with respect to the Northern Territory. What I should have gone on to explain was that, inadequate though arrangements in the Northern Territory are, at least in a number of respects the people of the Northern Territory have a larger measure of self-government than is proposed for Norfolk Island. I refer honourable members to the list of functions which was given to the Northern Territory as at 1 July 1978. When it is compared with the list of functions which it is proposed to give to the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly under Schedule 2 of the Bill, we find that a number of important areas which are included in the Northern Territory list are excluded from the Norfolk Island list. For instance, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has powers and duties in respect of the maintenance of law and order and the administration of justice. Those powers do not appear in Schedule 2 ofthe Bill. 
A similar situation exists in relation to the police, corporate affairs, prices and rent control, industrial safety, mining and minerals, public and private land, environmental protection, child, family and social welfare. In a number of areas the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has powers over and above those which are proposed for the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. So I think in that regard we can say that the Government has gone further in providing self-government in the Northern Territory than it has gone with Norfolk Island. That is the simple point I was trying to make. But I do not want any honourable member to think that, in my view, if we went as far with Norfolk Island as we have gone with the Northern Territory with self-government that would be far enough. We have not gone far enough in the Northern Territory. Even if we did extend those other functions to the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly, in my view that would not go far enough. It seems to me that we can go a lot further. We should be giving more functions to the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly and we should be doing away, in a whole range of areas, with the veto from Canberra which so circumscribes the theoretical self-government which the Government purports to be giving to Norfolk Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Was the estimate of Aboriginal population in the Kimberley region as contained in the Butcher report tabled in Parliament, 8,250 in 1977. 
If so. has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report by  Mr C.  A. P. Boundy for the West Australian Department of the Northwest which estimated the Kimberley Aboriginal population to be 10,944 in 1976. 
3 ) Bearing in mind that  Mr Boundy  with the help of community health services compiled an exhaustive register of all persons of Aboriginal descent living in the Kimberleys based on birth and death dates and location of last contact, can the Minister explain the apparent under-estimate by the Butcher Report. 
If  Mr Boundy's  estimates are projected for 1977 would the Butcher Report's understatement be around 3,000. 
5 ) With this in mind, can the Minister state which of the 2 figures the Department of Aboriginal Affairs intends to use in its planning for employment creation programs in the Kimberleys. 
What will be the implications for the people in the Kimberleys if the Department of Aboriginal Affairs uses the Butcher Report as its basis for planning. 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes the move by the Government to hold this redistribution which will result in increasing the representation of Western Australia in this House from 10 to 1 1 seats. However, I want to say that the Opposition will be keeping the conduct of this redistribution under very close scrutiny because we have very firmly fixed in our minds the recent Queensland redistribution and the redistribution in Western Australia in 1977. In the first instance one has to recall that the redistribution in Western Australia in 1977 produced a result which left the Australian Labor Party winning only one seat out of ten- that is 10 per cent of the seatseven though we got 39 per cent of the vote on a two-party preferred basis. It seems that on that basis we were entitled to expect at least three seats out of ten, maybe four seats out of ten. This demonstrates that the distribution undertaken in 1977 did not reflect accurately in the number of seats won the appropriate support which the parties had in Western Australia. On that ground particularly we will be insisting that this redistribution reflects a much fairer basis of support for the political parties. 
I might say in passing that it was intriguing to note that the boundaries of the electorate of Perth were almost identical with the suggestions which were made by the incumbent member for Perth,  Mr McLean.  The suggestions which he made to the Redistribution Commission in 1977 were totally incorporated in the proposals of the Commissioners. The report was accepted by the Government, of course, and it resulted in his electorate being almost that for which he asked. That enabled him to win with an increased majority. 
The point is that the personnel of these Redistribution Commissions is extremely important. If we look back we find that two of the people who are going to conduct this redistribution were involved in the conduct of the 1977 redistribution. They are  Mr B.  S. Nicholls and  Mr J.  F. Morgan. Therefore the personality of the third member of the Commission is extremely important. What do we find? We find that the third member appointed on this occasion is the Western Australian head of the department which the current Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  administered only recently. He is the head in Western Australia of the Department of Housing and Construction. 
If we look at the Queensland situation we see that the third person appointed to the Commission to conduct that redistribution was the suggested appointee of the honourable member for Mcpherson,  Mr Eric  Robinson. We know that he was the Divisional Returning Officer for the electorate of McPherson. We know of the trouble that the Government got into in that case. It seems to me and to the Opposition that the Government should have distanced itself, as far as possible, from the personalities involved in this redistribution in Western Australia. We find that one of the members of the Redistribution Commission is the regional head of the department administered by the Minister for Administrative Services, which, of course, is a statutory requirement. We find that another member is the regional head of a department that he administered until a few months ago. We must have some regard for the personal contact which this Minister has had with at least two members of the Commission. 
There is another aspect to consider. We would have thought that  Mr Nicholls  was, to some extent, a tainted appointee. After all, it was  Mr Nicholls  who was the first person to propose that the name of the electorate in Queensland be changed under circumstances which led to the appointment of a royal commission to determine the way in which that name was actually changed. Although  Senator Withers  was held responsible for the change of name in the Queensland redistribution, we know from the evidence produced at the Royal Commission conducted by  Mr Justice  McGregor that it was  Mr Nicholls  who telephoned  Mr Coleman  and suggested that the name be changed in order to prevent embarrassment for the government. We say that  Mr Nicholls  may have acted with some impropriety in that matter yet the Government has appointed him to chair the redistribution in Western Australia on this occasion. 
The third member of the Commission, over whose appointment the Government has the greatest discretion, worked directly for the Minister until a few months ago. In saying that I do not want to cast any aspersions about  Mr Statham.  What I am saying is that if this Government wants to be seen to appoint commissioners fairly and to appoint people who appear to have no interest in the matter, then it ought to have gone to much greater lengths to distance itself personally from the appointments. 
It seems to have been an instance of gross insensitivity on the part of the Government to make these appointments. As we have the appalling situation which occurred in Queensland fresh in our minds, resulting as it did in the dismissal of the then Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  it seems that the current Minister for Administrative Services should have dealt with the matter much more tactfully. I say to the Minister that we will be looking very carefully at proposals which come forward from this Redistribution Commission. We believe that the imbalance has to be redressed. The position which now exists, where the Labor Party, with nearly 39 per cent of the vote on a two-party preferred basis, has only 10 per cent of the seats, indicates a substantial measure of inequity in terms of the present boundaries. We think that the boundaries ought to be drawn at least to ensure that the representation of the Labor Partyindeed, that of any of the major parties in the State of Western Australia- is accurately represented in this House. I can say, therefore, that as far as the Opposition is concerned we will be looking especially carefully at the conduct of this redistribution and the commissioners to ensure that the result is much fairer than the result on the last occasion. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. I wish to make a very brief personal explanation. It relates to the debate which occurred following the statement made by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  on the forthcoming electoral distribution in Western Australia. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  alleged that I had misrepresented him and that I had not correctly stated the basis of his submission to the distribution commissioners.  His  proposals were that the subdivision of Menora should be included in Perth and that the subdivision of Lockridge should be taken out of Perth. Amongst other things, the recommendations of the redistribution commissioners included just those proposals. I seek leave to have incorporated in 
Hansardthe submission of the honourable member for Perth, together with the proposals of the commissioners as they related to the Division of Perth. I have checked with the honourable member for Perth and he has no objection to their being incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Parliament of Australia House of Representatives Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 Telephone 72 1211 24th May, 1977 
The  Chairman,  Distribution Commission, Australian Electoral Office, 5 th Floor, Wapet House, 1 2 St. George 's Terrace, Perth, W.A. 6000 
Dear  Sir, 
I wish to make a brief submission regarding the possible redistribution of boundaries between Federal electorates in Western Australia. 
I represent the electorate of Perth in the Federal Parliament, and although I have views on many aspects of the way in which the boundaries of the seat of Perth are drawn, I wish to confine my remarks primarily to two obvious anomalies. 
The first and most serious anomaly relates to the exclusion of the Menora sub-division from the seat of Perth. This subdivision, which until 1 974 was part of the Perth seat, is now a part of the Stirling electorate. 
Historically, this sub-division has always belonged to the electorate of Perth, and, geographically, the absence of the Menora sub-division creates a very irregular incision into the western boundary of the seat. I have found that this disrupts the community of interest which exists in the suburb of  Mr Lawley,  and creates a certain amount of confusion in the minds of many residents of this area. As a resident of  Mr Lawley  all my life, I am well aware of these problems and would be prepared to elaborate on this matter before the Commission if necessary. 
Suffice it to say at this juncture that the suburb of  Mr Lawley  is both socially and economically homogeneous.  Mr Lawley,  which has historically contained all the Menora subdivision, is located totally within the State electorate of  Mr Lawley.  It is totally located within the local government ward of Lawley in the City of Stirling, which is a major local government authority embracing a significant part of the Perth electorate. But the suburb is split between two Federal electorates; with the dividing line being Learoyd Street, which is certainly not a major thoroughfare. 
There is another confusing aspect of the way in which the absence of Menora creates a wedge into the Perth seat. Walcott Street, a major road, has a different electorate on each side of it for much of its length, and is located within one electorate (Perth), for some distance. 
Because of the way in which the absence of the Menora sub-division distorts the shape of the Perth seat in this area, and disrupts the substantial community of interest which exists in  Mr Lawley,  I believe there is a very obvious case to be made for the return of this sub-division to the electorate of Perth, which historically, has always included Menora. 
The other major anomaly relates to the Lockridge subdivision, which, until 1974 was not part of the Perth seat. I cannot understand why a capital city seat should contain a sub-division such as Lockridge, which covers a very large area, and which is mainly zoned 'rural', and in other parts, deferred urban'. 
The sub-division, because it is large, sparsely populated, and mainly rural, provides me with certain representation difficulties. My representation activities are centred around the need to cater for a densely populated, suburban, residential population. In addition, the problems of suburban dwellers are vastly different from those of people living in rural areas, and this creates representation difficulties for a Member representing a seat which is mainly of a suburban nature. 
That part of the Lockridge sub-division which is residential can be catered for quite adequately. But the large part of the sub-division which is of a rural nature, and which has nothing at all in common with the rest of the Perth seat, does not, and cannot, receive adequate representation from me. 
The Lockridge sub-division also embraces part of the Swan Valley, a rural area largely devoted to vineyards, and other rural activities, and in which there is a substantial community of interest'. I believe it is not in the best interests of this region for it to be dissected by two Federal electorates, one basically rural, and one basically suburban. The representation duties and activities of inner suburban areas, and rural areas, are just not compatible. 
Quite clearly, the residents of this area do not identify with the seat of Perth because this is the one area of my electorate from which I have received no constituency communication. 
For these reasons, I believe the Lockridge sub-division should be removed from the Perth seat. 
These two suggestions- the re-inclusion of Menora, and the exclusion of Lockridge- would simply return the seat of Perth to the boundaries it occupied prior to 1974. 
I would be pleased to provide you with any additional information, should you require it. 
Yours faithfully, ross McLean Member for Perth 

<graphic href="114131197905023_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. In addition, the Minister said that I had attacked  Mr Statham.  I did not attack  Mr Statham.  What I did say was that it seemed to me that the Government, given the experience in 
Queensland and the experience of the last distribution in Western Australia, had a particular obligation to ensure that the commissioners were well and truly at arm's length from the Minister responsible for the redistribution. I just raised the question of whether that could be said in the case of the appointment of  Mr Statham. 
-Today we are debating an extraordinarily serious matter, yet once again the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has made his glib apologies about the state of this country's international standing. The point is- and the Opposition will make it continuallythat the pack of economic charlatans who occupy the Treasury bench has bankrupted this country. That is the real point at issue in this debate. For the first time in the history of this country, Australia 's overseas borrowings exceed our overseas reserves. Let us stop for a moment and examine exactly what that means. We have always had reserves overseas; we have always made borrowings overseas. But this is the first time that we have not had the money overseas in our reserves to cover the extent of the borrowing in which this Government has engaged. 
As was pointed out by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the amount by which our borrowings exceed our reserves is over $1.5 billion. That means, in simple terms, that if the people from whom we borrowed this money were all of a sudden to foreclose on Australia we would not be able to find $1.5 billion to meet our debts. We can expect that at any moment a receiver will be appointed to wind up Australia. This is simply another indicationmore evidence- of the fact that the Government's economic policy is crumbling before the Government's eyes and before the eyes of the people of Australia. 
The Government used to be very proud of talking about its four arms of economic policy. It used to talk about its fiscal arm, its wages arm, its monetary arm and its exchange rate arm. The idea of the Government running around with four arms has always intrigued me. But I have suddenly discovered what that really means. At the end of each arm is a hand and it is the hand at the end of the arm which has been so busy. It is the hand at the end of the arm which we have to examine. Let us look for a moment at the fiscal arm. At the end of the Government's fiscal arm is a fiscal hand. That fiscal hand has been very active picking the pockets of wage and salary earners in this country and, at the same time, very deftly handing out largesse to the oil companies and to anyone who is prepared to invest in machinery to replace workers. That is the activity of the fiscal arm. We come then to the wages arm and to the wages hand at the end of that arm. That hand has been vigorously waving big sticks and pointing accusing fingers at workers, at the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and, occasionally, at employers. At the end of the monetary arm is the monetary hand. In recent times that hand has been extraordinarily busy jacking up interest rates. It is about to resort to turning the wheels of the printing presses in order to finance the Government's exploding deficit. 
The fourth arm, which we really are talking about in this debate, is the arm which deals with the exchange rate. We have found now that the hand at the end of that arm has been very quietly greasing the palms of overseas money lenders. That has been necessary in order for the Government to shore up the exchange rate of this country. We now see the spectacle of this fourarmed monster cartwheeling out of control. It is no wonder that when we look at this depressing spectacle, we see the increasing appearance of misery taking over the face of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard). His  task is made even more difficult by the idiotic pronouncements which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is prone to make from time to time. Let us take, for instance, what the Prime Minister said in November 1976. The honourable member for Gellibrand referred to this earlier. The Prime Minister offered us then an alternative. He put to us the possibility of our having either to devalue or putting the country into hock. The Treasurer and the Prime Minister, we now find have achieved both. He offered us an alternative: To devalue or to go into hock. In fact, he gave us both. For that we are supposed to be, according to the Treasurer, eternally grateful. 
In 1975 the Prime Minister made another prediction. He looked at the extent of the deficit which the Australian Labor Party Government had managed and said: 'You cannot run a country with a deficit like that. Running the country is like running a household budget. If you continue to spend more than you earn you will have to eventually pay it back'. What are we faced with now? In this Government's period of office the Prime Minister has chalked up an accumulated deficit of something like $9 billion. Presumably, in the mind of the Prime Minister we are faced with the daunting prospect of having to pay back $9 billion before the country will be solvent in domestic, economic terms. Presumably, we will have to pay back that $9 billion before we will be able even to begin to pay back the $5 billion which we now owe overseas. Such is the idiosy of this Government's approach that the Opposition feels bound to refer to these matters time and time again. 
At the same time, we are asked to make some positive suggestions about what ought to happen to the economy- what alternative propositions we might put to correct the appalling mess and to rescue Australia from the economic disaster in which this Government has placed the country. We have been diligent in that task. Time and time again, the honourable member for Gellibrand and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  have set out our alternative strategies for fixing up the economy. Time and time again, we have explained the new directions which we would chart for this country. But as great as that obligation is, it will not distract us from the equally important task of revealing the depth of the crisis which this country faces and the extent of the damage which this Government has done to this country. That is the task in which we are engaged today. We have to reveal to the people of Australia the damage which this Government is doing to this country. We have to reveal the extent to which this Government is mortgaging the future of this* country and of every worker and every workers child by virtue of those overseas loans. 
As the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out so succinctly, we are confronted with a situation in which, in the forthcoming years, we will have to make a massive repayment of our debts. The repayment will have two parts: Firstly, the loan itself and, secondly, the interest burden on that and other loans. If we look at what will happen in 1981, 1982 and 1983, we will find that we will have to pay back annually in excess of three quarters of a billion dollars. It is all very well for the Treasurer to sit in this chamber and smugly say that that presents no problem. One reason that it will not present a problem for him is that he will not be the Treasurer at the time that the repayments will have to be made. It will however be a problem for the honourable member for Gellibrand, and that is what I am concerned about. I am concerned that this Government should not create such irreparable damage that the task of the honourable member in the coming years is made even more difficult. 
As well as the budgetary problems that it will create and the problems that it will create in terms of our foreign account, it will create a problem for the ordinary taxpayer who knows that, in the end, it is he who will be responsible for the debt which this Government has chalked up. Already each Australian taxpayer has hanging around his neck a burden amounting to about $1,000. If one went to the taxpayers now and asked whether they could each withstand an extra $1,000 in loan burden, what would their answer be? Of course, they would reject it as an idiotic proposition. Yet, without consulting them the Government has saddled them with this extra burden to cover up its mismanagement of the Australian economy. 
What I have described does not, of course, take into account the fact that we have also six Premiers or so tramping around the world trying to extract loans on their own behalf. The excursions of those Premiers and their State Treasurers will only make the problem worse for Australia in the coming years. It does not matter who borrows the money- 
-It does not matter who it is, Wran or Bjelke-Petersen. It is the Federal Government which in the end will be held responsible for Australia's credit rating and its ability to repay loans. The Government can send the Premiers off to borrow the money but this is where the buck stops in terms of repaying the money. It is the Australian taxpayer who will be responsible for repaying it. It is the standard of living of the Australian work force which is at stake in this regard. It does not matter who borrows the money; it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to ensure that Australia has the ability to repay. At the moment it is this Government which is the most enthusiastic about chalking up foreign loans. The people of Australia must understand what this Government is doing to them and the way in which it is imperilling their future. 
It is of no use for the Treasurer to say in this chamber that the Government is doing only what Labor attempted to do; that the only objection that the then Opposition had was in relation to the way in which we intended to go about borrowing the money. I recall, and the Australian people will recall, that at the time the then Opposition mentioned only the extent of the loan. All that was in the air was the fact that a loan of $4 billion was being entertained by the then Government. That was the sole basis of the criticism that was then being offered. 
-The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  took the Opposition to task on the question of compensation. In the first instance he referred to a motion which has been placed on the Notice Paper by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  Let me just read the terms of that motion: 
That the House accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay and urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people and introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
I know that I do not have to remind the honourable member for Dundas, but I may have to remind the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  because he was not around at that time, that that motion is in identical terms to one that was not simply passed but carried unanimously by the Senate. That means that it was carried with the support of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in the Senate. I hope that we in this House will also be able to carry that motion unanimously. If Liberal Party and National Country Party members were prepared to vote for that motion in the Senate in 1975, as it was proposed by  Senator Bonner,  a Liberal senator, then maybe we can emulate the Senate and do exactly the same thing in this chamber. 
What the honourable member for Dundas said was that the honourable member for Capricornia mentioned compensation in that motion. Indeed, he did. But let me remind the honourable member for Dundas that the motion states: 
. urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people and introduce legislation to compensate the people . . . 
I do not really accept that what we are debating here tonight, namely, the question of royalties in relation to mining in the Northern Territory, represents a fair measure of compensation for the Northern Territory Aboriginals or the Aboriginal people of Australia as a whole. Even if honourable members opposite want to see it as some sort of compensation- and I do not - 
-If the honourable member for Dundas will keep quiet for one moment, I will tell him that I do not believe that what is proposed is complete compensation, because it seems to me that even if the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory resisted totally all mining on their land, there would still be an obligation upon us to provide some sort of compensation to them- at least for the land which we had removed from them. I will take up the position put by the honourable member for Dundas. Accepting that this is some measure of compensation, not a capital settlement but income, I invite him to think for a moment of what this represents in the way of income per Aboriginal family in the Northern Territory. It is necessary for me to explain briefly how these royalties are paid. Forty per cent of the royalties is paid to the various land councils, 30 per cent is paid to the particular communities who represent the traditional land owning group, and the remaining 30 per cent is paid into a trust account used to benefit Aboriginal people throughout the Northern Territory. 
In order not to complicate the matter too much I will assume that the whole of the royalty is to be spent equally amongst all Aboriginal families and, as suggested by the honourable member for Dundas, is some form of income. Let honourable members accept that proposition. Well, what does the royalty from Ranger represent per Aboriginal family in the Northern Territory? The honourable member for Dundas may be surprised to know that it represents an annual income per Aboriginal family of less than $1,000. Other people in Australia with an income of less than $ 1,000 do not pay any tax. Yet the Government is proposing, according to the argument of the honourable member for Dundas, to assume that this royalty is compensation payable in the form of annual income and therefore should be taxed when it reaches the recipients. Leaving aside the argument as to what the money is spent on and leaving aside the argument that most of the money does not get into the individual's hands, even if all of it got into the individual's hands each family would get less than $1,000 a year. Yet the miserable Liberals on the other side of the chamber want to tax a family income of $ 1,000 a year at the rate of  6Va  per cent. We have now uncovered where the honourable member for Dundas stands in relation to the welfare of Aboriginal families in the Northern Territory. 
I will not shout so long as you promise to listen. But the point is that this money does not get into the hands of individual families. Firstly, 40 per cent goes to the land councils and most of that money is spent on two things. Firstly it is spent on processing claims before the Land Rights Commissioner in relation to unalienated land. That takes a lot of money. Secondly, the money is used by the land council, the decision-making and governing body, for the Aboriginal communities within various parts of the Northern Territory. Consequently, far from going into the hands of individual Aboriginal families, most of that money finds its way into the pockets of lawyers, advisers and administrators, many of whom have the same complexion as the honourable member for Dundas. 
Another 30 per cent of the money goes to the traditional land owning community- not into the individual pockets of members of those communities but into the incorporated bodies which represent those communities. That money, presumably- as has been the case at Yirrkala- is spent on community activities and on building a capital infrastructure to assist the community as a whole. Again, substantial sums go into the hands of building contractors, sellers of motor vehicles, manufacturers of  motor  vehicles and so on. So again, even the money that goes directly to the community does not go into the pockets of individual members of those communities but is spent to the benefit of the community as a whole and finds its way into the wider Northern Territory and Australian communities. 
The remaining 30 per cent goes into the trust account. That money is dispensed throughout the Territory to various community organisations. Consequently, it is only in rare instances that the money finds its way into the hands of individual Aboriginals. I do not understand how the honourable member for Dundas can see this as compensation in the form of annual income. I will draw another analogy which I am sure will appeal to the honourable member for Dundas. Consider the situation of  Mr Lang  Hancock. It is true that he receives royalties from Hammersley Iron for the exploitation of mineral leases which he holds. However, there is a very clear difference between  Mr Lang  Hancock and the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. The main difference is that  Mr Lang  Hancock owns the leases and is able to determine whether or not they will be exploited; and if so, by whom and at what price. On the other hand the Northern Land Council does not own the minerals. All that was built into the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act was a requirement that mining companies negotiate with the Northern Land Council. As far as the Aboriginal people are concerned, this is not a position of negotiating strength. They were put under pressure by the Government to ensure that the royalties were kept to a very low level. In addition, they were put under substantial pressure by the Government to ensure that an agreement was reached quickly. Therefore, honourable members cannot say that the Aboriginal people - 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 7- by leave- taken together. 
I should like to make some comments in the few minutes which remain to debate this very important measure. I regret very much the way in which this Bill has been guillotined. This is a crucial Bill as it concerns the Government's credibility on the whole question of Aboriginal land rights. I think it was unfortunate that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  egged on by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  said that what the Labor Party Opposition was trying to do, and what the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  in particular was trying to do was to set white against black in the Northern Territory. Nothing could be further from the truth. I give the Committee these reasons in explanation. In the first place, there was never any suggestion that the Northern Territory Administration, and therefore the non-Aboriginal members of the Northern Territory, would benefit in any way from the Ranger uranium mine. There was never any question of the Northern Territory Administration receiving any royalties. Therefore, to a very great extent, the Aboriginal people, through the Northern Land Council, in negotiating the question of royalties were representing not just the Aboriginal population of the Northern Territory but the entire population of the Northern Territory. Whatever the Northern Land Council was able to extract by way of royalties was going to be the entire benefit which people in the Northern Territory received by way of royalty from this particular enterprise. 
I do not have to explain our opposition to the whole of the Ranger exercise. All I am saying is that if there is going to be a uranium mine it seems to me that the community as a whole ought to benefit. But the only way that the whole of the Northern Territory community would be able to benefit would be indirectly through the royalties which the Aboriginal people, via the Northern Land Council, were going to obtain. It was only well after the negotiations were finalised- ruthlessly finalised as a result of the application of force by this Federal Government- that the Northern Territory Administration stepped in and attempted to extract its pound of flesh from the whole exercise. It extracted by devious and probably illegal means, something like1 per cent royalty out of the Ranger proposal. I invite honourable members to go back to the stage when the negotiations were in progress. It was never envisaged that the Northern Territory Administration would receive a royalty and therefore the Northern Land Council was negotiating on behalf of the whole of the people of the Northern Territory. 
As I have attempted to explain, the money which will go to Aboriginal communities, the money which will go to the land councils, and the money which will go to the trust account will indirectly benefit the total population of the Northern Territory. I think it was most unfortunate that the honourable member for the Northern Territory came here and said that our argument in opposing this taxation was based on setting white against black in the Northern Territory. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
The other thing which is terribly disturbing about this whole exercise is that itwill mean that taxation will apply for the first time to the mining operations at Groote Eylandt and Gove. Even if it could be argued that it was known at the time of the Ranger negotiations that some taxation would apply, there was never any suggestion that there would be any taxation at the time that the royalties were negotiated for Groote Eylandt and Gove. Indeed, no taxation has been applied in relation to those royalties since the time that those negotiations were concluded. What has happened now is that many years after establishing royalty rates, inadequate and trifling as they are-2 per cent in relation to Gove, and 3 per  cent in relation to Groote Eylandt- the Government has stepped in and decided to extract something out of these companies by way of this appalling taxation. I think that the point made on this side of the House about retrospectivity is very appropriate because taxation is being applied to an agreement made many years ago in the absence of taxation and, as a result, benefits applying to Aboriginal people are being reduced. 
I just want to make one point in relation to the comments of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  He continues to pretend that this taxation is in lieu of some sort of income tax applying to Aboriginal people as individuals. No matter how hard the honourable member tries, no matter how many projects he includes, I say this: If total royalties were to be applied overall to all aboriginal families they would still not be in a position where they would be receiving an income which would be subject to taxation if it was received by any other Australian. This Government is applying excessive taxation to the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory, taxation in excess of that applied to any other Australian family. The honourable member completely ignores the fact that very little of this money is going to find its way indirectly into the personal disposable income of any Aboriginal family. To that extent, the honourable member has been guilty of a gross distortion as far as this whole matter is concerned. 
I just want to say that I am not opposed to the taxation of royalties in general. I am not opposed to  Mr Lang  Hancock being taxed on royalties which he receives from his mining leases worked by Hammersley Iron. The point is that the Northern Land Council was not in a comparable position with someone like  Mr Lang  Hancock. It was not able to extract the market rate for the use of that land, and the reasons for that are well known. In case anybody has any doubt, the Northern Land Council could not prevent the mining of the land, no matter how hard it resisted. The Government made it very clear that if the Northern Land Council did not conclude those agreements, did not agree to some level of royalty, then the Government would step in, invoke the national interest clauses of the appropriate legislation and force upon the Northern Land Council some sort of solution to the problem. The Government would have imposed a royalty rate unless the Northern Land Council moved to agree to one. So, to that extent, it was not a freely-negotiated agreement and therefore it is not comparable with other royalty arrangements. I agree that in those instances they should be taxed but, because of its unusual nature, this one should not be taxed. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Education to recommendation 5.33 of the Williams report, which states:  . . that the Tertiary Education Commission discuss with the University of Western Australia and Murdoch University and the Western Australian Post-Secondary Education Commission an integration of the activities of the two universities. 
Can the Minister explain the inconsistency between that recommendation and the statement of the Prime Minister on 22 March in which he alleged that the report had suggested the merger of Murdoch University and the University of Western Australia? I am sure the Minister will understand the difference between the integration of activities and merger. Will the Minister take into account the strong educational arguments in favour of the maintenance of separate institutions and not compel the two universities to merge? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did he say at Chadstone shopping centre in Melbourne on 3 December 1977 that a reduction of 2 per cent in interest rates in the next 12 months 'can and will be achieved '? Was that promise honoured? 
I am not wasting time. It is important to refute the inaccuracies of the honourable member for Dundas. As long as the Government has sensible things for us to debate, we are prepared to sit here and debate them. But we are not prepared to have the work of this Parliament mucked around by this incompetent Government. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) we are debating tonight is a measure to impose extra revenue by way of customs duty. My own view is that it is very inappropriate to use customs duty specifically and only for the purpose of raising revenue. Customs can be used effectively I think, for influencing the direction of industry policy in this country, but on this occasion it is being used purely for the purpose of revenue raising and for that in itself, it can be condemned. 
However it is worth pointing out that this has become a pattern of this Government. Not only has the Government used personal income tax and company tax as a means of raising revenue, but also in particular it has made a major assault in the area of revenue raising via indirection taxation. In fact, in the last couple of years there has been a massive increase in the amount of revenue that this Government has raised by way of indirect taxation. If we compare the year 1975-76 with the year 1978-79, we find that there has been a 51 per cent increase in the amount of revenue raised via indirect taxation. In 1 975-76, the revenue raised via indirect taxation was about $4.8 billion while in 1978-79 it was about $7.2 billion. That is an increase of about $2.5 billion or 5 1 per cent. It is true that some of that increase can be put down to increases in prices and no doubt some of it can be put down to actual increases in the number of transactions. But over half of the increase can be put down to simple increases in the rates of indirect taxation, that is, $ 1 .3 billion extra has been raised by this Government as a result of changing the rates which applied to indirect taxation. 
We have heard a lot about the personal income tax rates of this Government compared with the personal income tax rates of the former Labor Government. In fact the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  was at some pains to put forward the rather absurd proposition that if the Hayden rates or personal income tax applied now, an extra $3 billion would have been raised. That clearly is an absurd proposition because if Government members want to argue in that way, it would be perfectly open to us to argue that if the McMahon rates of personal income tax which applied during 1972-73 applied now, an extra $5 billion in revenue would have been raised. So what we can really say is that whereas it may be true that in the very unlikely event that the Hayden tax rates had remained unchanged from 1975-76 to this year an extra amount would have been raised had the McMahon rates still been in force, an extra $2 billion would have been raised over and above the amount that would have been raised under the Hayden tax scales. In that connection, it is interesting to make a comparison with the rates of indirect taxation. If we do the sums- I recognise that that would present some difficulty to Government members- we discover that if the Hayden rates of indirect taxation applied now, $1.3 billion less revenue would have been raised. I repeat: $1.3 billion less revenue would have been raised if the Hayden indirect tax rates had applied this year as opposed - 
-I am sure that the honourable member for Perth would love to get back to personal income tax, but what he has to recognise is that this Government is a government of high taxation. This Government is responsible for a 50 per cent hike in the amount of revenue which has been raised via indirect taxation, $1.3 billion of which has been raised solely as a result of lifting the rates of indirect taxation. The Hayden rates of indirect taxation would have resulted in $1.3 billion less in terms of revenue than would have been gained from the rates which now apply under this Government. What this measure does is take that one step further by increasing again the amount of revenue that this Government will gain from customs duty. This measure comes at a time when the Government has announced- but has not legislated for- the continuation of the coal export levy. So we can see that once again there will be a vast increase in the amount of revenue that this Government will achieve via indirect taxation. What has to be recognised by these people who pretend to be interested in equity, who pretend to be interested in looking after those people on the lower end of the income scale is that indirect taxes have a very regressive effect indeed. Indirect taxes apply regardless of a person's level of income. A person on a high income pays the same rate of indirect taxation as someone on a low income. What this Government has done by increasing the level of indirect taxation is to make its revenue raising even more regressive than it would have been otherwise. Of course, the Government is not immune from criticism in relation to making the personal income tax scales more regressive either. Whenever this Government does bestow a temporary and somewhat trivial benefit in the way of personal income tax, we always find that the benefit is greatest for those on the largest incomes and least for those on the lowest incomes. 
This Government prides itself on being a government of reform in the taxation area. In fact I had to sit through a very dreary speech by the honourable member for Perth in which he accused the Opposition of a certain measure of hypocrisy. If ever someone was guilty of the charge of hypocrisy, it is the honourable member for Perth through his support for this Government and through his individual - 
I rise to point out that in Perth this week there was a meeting of State and Federal Ministers responsible for the funding of local government. I understand that the meeting was called to review the policies of funding local government. I think it is important that in this context we recognise that there has been a very serious deterioration in the arrangements in relation to the distribution of federal funds for local government. Honourable members will recollect that when the Whitlam Government introduced the practice of directly funding local government via the Grants Commission it did so purely on a needs basis. It sought to discover the needs of every municipality in this country and tried to tailor financial assistance to meet those needs. When the Fraser Government came to power it changed all that. It insisted that part of the funds be distributed to local government on a population basis. 
In Western Australia this situation was carried to extraordinary lengths. The local government grants committee established by the State Government which had the responsibility of disbursing federal funds amongst the municipalities in Western Australia was instructed that 80 per cent of federal funds had to be distributed on what was called a weighted population basis which meant that only 20 per cent of federal funds were available for distribution on a needs basis. This had the very unfortunate consequence that local municipalities which had very great needs ended up with a smaller proportion of federal funds than they would have obtained under the Labor formula. Those municipalities whose needs were least ended up with a larger proportion. I refer the House to a couple of figures. In Western Australia in 1976-77 $2.5m was distributed to local government on a needs basis whereas the year before $7.5m was distributed on a needs basis. This has meant that municipalities such as one of those in my electorate, the City of Fremantle, have received very much less than they would have received if the old needs formula had been maintained. As a consequence the City of Fremantle has had to find the funds from elsewhere. Of course, it has had to resort to increased rates. 
It seems to me that if there is to be an examination of the funding arrangements between the Federal Government and local government, it ought to take into account the very great dislocation that has resulted from the change of policy on the part of the Federal Government. This has been compounded by the fact that under the Labor Government's program not only were funds provided via the Grants Commission but also funds were provided directly to local government for specific projects, such as employment generating initiatives, welfare assistance programs and so on. Yet, as a result of this Government's decision, direct assistance in this category fell from $200m in the last Labor Budget to $35m in the most recent LiberalNational Country Party Budget. This has meant that there has been a dramatic fall in the funds available for local government under specific project grants. As a consequence, those municipalities which have the greatest need for welfare services, child care services and employment projects have been affected, in Western Australia at least, in two ways. As I have already indicated, because a smaller proportion of untied grants is allocated on a population basis they tend not to get the assistance that they would have received under the old program. Because the specific project funds have been so drastically cut they do not receive as much as they would have received otherwise. This means that the ordinary rate payers in municipalities such as the City of Fremantle are shouldered with a very much greater burden than they would have been if the former needs principle had been applied. 
-Before addressing myself specifically to those parts of the Bills to which I wish to refer, I want to answer some of the distortions of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson).  At the beginning of his speech he spent some time criticising the Labor Party's industry policy. Obviously the honourable member has not been keeping up with some of the recent statements of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The point is that both preceding and following the presentation of the Crawford report, the honourable member for Adelaide, on behalf of the Opposition, went into some detail on the Opposition's attitude in this area. One of the particular areas of importance which the Crawford report mentioned was the need for specific programs for the assistance of specific industries in Australia. Whilst the Crawford report was generally in favour of some progress towards declining levels of tariff, it recognised that for a variety of reasons, particularly those relating to the regional consequences of lowering assistance to particular industries, there was a need to develop specific programs for those industries in peculiar situations. 
As an earnest of our acceptance of this approach, the honourable member for Adelaide and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  jointly announced that the Labor Party would be looking at the creation of a textile and clothing industry authority which would examine the special problems of those industries to see what sort of assistance could be given to overcome the problems. Of course, in the main, those industries happen to be located in areas remote from the centres of population and therefore there are very pressing arguments for giving special assistance to those industries. I think it is quite wrong for the honourable member for Brisbane to reflect as he did on the Labor Party in that way. Our approach to industry policy has been and continues to be a very practical one, and the instance I have just given is an example of that. 
However, I want to turn to the second of the measures which are being debated here today, the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill. This Bill is primarily related to the needs of this Government to raise revenue. It is a further indication of this Government's high tax policies, and that can be seen by looking at a number of important taxation revenue measures. If we compare the performance of this Government in the field of raising revenue with the performance of the former Labor Government, we find that this Government has been responsible for a substantial tax hike. In the area of public authority receipts as a share of gross domestic product, during the three years of Labor Administration the total amount received by the Commonwealth was 24.5 per cent of GDP. Under this Government that share has increased to 26 per cent. That is very definite evidence of the fact that this Government is enthusiastic about its activities in the revenueraising area. 
To find the explanation for this enthusiasm we have to look beyond the area of personal income taxation. Of course, there has been a 40 per cent increase in the amount taken by the Commonwealth via personal income tax but in the area of indirect taxation the growth has been even greater. What we have before us is just another measure designed to collect more indirect taxation by way of excise. In the area of indirect taxation there has been a total increase from $4.8 billion in 1975-76 to $7.2 billion. That is an increase of $2.4 billion in the amount of revenue raised by this Government by means of indirect taxation. 
It is true that some of this increase can be accounted for simply by increases in prices, Another part of it can be accounted for by increases in sales. More than half of it can be put down to changes in the rates of indirect taxation- changes which have accounted for $1.3 billion extra revenue than would have been collected in the last year of the former Labor Government. If the Hayden levels of indirect taxation were applying now the amount of revenue collected through indirect taxation would have been $1.3 billion less than that collected under this Government. 
This Government, by changing its rates, has increased its collections of indirect taxation quite substantially. The serious thing about this is that indirect taxation is far more regressive than is personal income taxation. The level of indirect taxes paid by a particular individual is quite unrelated to his income or his capacity to pay. The move by this Government towards increases in direct taxation represents a penalty on those people on lower incomes. One of the reasons for the need for the Government to enter into this area, despite its claim, to the contrary, is its lack of success in tackling the problem of tax avoidance. I wish to relate a couple of statistics which indicate this lack of success. In the area of personal income taxation we find that the amount paid by those salary and wage earners who pay their tax via the pay-as-you-earn system has increased from $8.5 billion to just over $10 billion in the two years 1 976 to 1 978. That represents an increase of 2 1 per cent. 
If we look at the other areas of personal income tax collection- that is, that paid by way of provisional tax- we find that there has hardly been any increase at all. In order for that to make sense, one of two things must be happening. Either there have been no increases in salaries amongst those people who pay their tax via provisional tax arrangements or else those increases in salaries which have occurred in that area have not been reflected in higher income tax because those people are able to avoid income taxation. 
Clearly we can reject the proposition that salaries have not increased. If we were to apply the 21 per cent increase revenue which has been ripped off the wage and salary earners to those who pay via provisional tax arrangements we would find that there was at least $500m missing from that area. In my thesis that can be put down only to tax avoidance. The fact that the Government has not been able to get that $500m is one of the reasons why it has had to look to other sources of revenue, particularly to indirect taxation. 
The consequence of this has been- particularly in the area of excise on petroleum and petroleum products- for the price of petrol to the ordinary motorist in Australia to double over the last three years under this Government. That has occurred largely because this Government has an obsession about the areas from which it raises revenue. It has chosen to raise revenue in that way rather than in the traditional and fairer ways afforded by personal income taxation. It is all very well to claim that the rate of personal income tax is not as high as it otherwise might be, but the point is that people are still paying it, whether they are paying it via personal income taxation or whether they are paying it every time they fill up their motor cars with petrol. 
That is really the reason why the Government has decided slavishly to tie the price of crude oil in this country to the price determined by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The consequences of that have been severe. Not only has it led to an increase in the price of petrol itself but also it is anticipated that its other consequences throughout the economy will be that it will lead over the next one or two years to an increase of more than 2 per cent in the cost of living. This increase is not only represented by increases in prices at the petrol pumps but also it is driven into the prices paid by manufacturers and others. Therefore it is reflected in the prices they have to pay. Partly because of that, the level of employment is being seriously affected. When inquiring into oil pricing policies the Industries Assistance Commission estimated that the consequence of this policy would be to reduce employment overall by about 48,000 jobs. The consequences of that reduction will fall most severely in the rural area. About 8,000 of those 48,000 jobs will be lost in rural Australia. That will mean a decline of almost 3 per cent in the level of employment in the rural areas. It is a serious problem- one which this Government has not been prepared to acknowledge. 
In support of its determination to impose OPEC prices on ordinary Australians, the Government relies really on two arguments. The first is the conservation argument, which the honourable member for Adelaide rightly pointed out is really not on. Overseas experience has indicated that there would have to be a much higher price for petroleum than we already have in this country before there would be any significant reduction in the consumption level of petroleum. This is partly because many people just do not have any way of avoiding the amount of petroleum which they consume. It is needed for getting to work and it is needed by the manufacturing industry to provide work. The conservation argument, whilst superfically attractive, does not stand up to close examination. 
The other argument on which the Government has relied involves the question of exploration. It indicates that by tying the price of petroleum to OPEC prices and then returning a proportion of the revenue to the producers it is able to provide more funds for oil exploration. The Government's own department in giving evidence to the IAC oil pricing policy inquiry said: 
It is doubtful if the receipt of such windfall profits would of itself contribute to additional development and exploration. 
That statement has been borne out. We have yet to see any concrete evidence of an increase in exploration activity in this country as a result of that policy. We can always live in hope. We would be better advised to implement some of the policy decisions of the Canadian Government. It requires that these sorts of windfall profits gained by oil companies be ploughed back into exploration. If we look at the situations in Canada and Australia, which are basically comparable countries, we find that in 1978 only 52 wells were drilled in Australia compared with over 3,000 wells drilled in Canada. So I think the Government has a long way to go before it even begins to justify these prices paid by the motorists for petrol because of exploration. 
The other point which has to be made in this context is Australia's very great problems in relation to its liquid fuels. Whilst at the moment we are producing about 70 per cent of the crude oil which we need in this country- that is, we are importing only about 30 per cent of those we need- we will find that position completely reversed by 1990. That is just over 1 1 years away. We will find that we will be able to produce only 30 per cent of the petroleum products which we, in fact, consume. This will make us very reliant on imported crude to the extent of 70 per cent. Now this is particularly serious in Western Australia where the Western Australian fuel economy already is very heavily concentrated in the area of imported oil. We find that 73 per cent of the consumption of primary energy consumed in Western Australia comes from oil. That compares, for instance, with Victoria and New South Wales where the figure is only about 40 per cent and with Queensland where it is about 55 per cent. At 73 per cent it is far above any of the other States. Nearly three quarters of Western Australia's energy comes from oil. As I have said, increasingly over the next few years it will have to come from imported sources. So, the consequences for Western Australia from this policy and from this measure which is before the House are, of course, particularly serious. We find as well, if we look at Western Australia, that the projections for the consumption of petroleum liquids over the next 20 years will nearly double. Certainly, a very grave situation is in prospect for Western Australia. It is not being helped by the policies of this Government. All this Government has achieved in this area to date has been to drive the price of petrol through the roofdouble it in three years- with no concrete evidence of the fact that any further exploration is going on in this country or that there is any further prospect of finding local sources of petroleum products. 
Of course, we in Western Australia have the prospect of the North West Shelf gas and very much hinges on the success of that project. Western Australian's are waiting with baited breath to find out whether the feasibility studies in relation to that project are going to indicate the goahead for it. If it does not go ahead then the problems for Western Australia and the Western Australian energy economy will be even more grave than the picture I have already painted. 
The Opposition does not oppose these collection of measures but as the honourable member for Adelaide has indicated, it is our intention at the Second reading stage to move an amendment to draw attention to the folly of the policy of the Government in relation to its crude oil pricing policy. The Government through insisting on a slavish observance of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices, has placed an enormous and severe burden on the Australian public. We are not saying that the Government should price Australian oil completely independently of OPEC. We have said in the Green Paper that there is a need for the price of Australian crude to be related to OPEC prices. But there is absolutely no need to slavishly observe the OPEC pricing system which has such seriously disruptive effects on the Australian economy. It has to be understood that the real reason for this Government pursuing this policy so vigorously is quite unrelated to the energy policy and is quite unrelated to anything except a desire to raise revenue in any way other than by personal income taxation regardless of the consequences for Australians or the economy as a whole. As I said, the failure of the Government to really come to grips with the problem of taxation avoidance has exacerbated the problem in relation to the Government's revenue. 
-As foreshadowed by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
Whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Fraser Government's crude oil pricing policy has imposed a severe burden on the Australian public by way of rapidly increasing petrol prices and through its adverse effects on Australia's inflation and unemployment rates and should be reviewed '. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. Did he attend a luncheon- I hope that he can hear - 
-I refer the Minister for National Development to the question I asked him yesterday concerning his secret lunch with representatives of oil companies organised by the Liberal Party in Western Australia. I ask the Minister whether he was informed by a representative of Associated Surveys Pty Ltd of West Perth, who is connected with the Liberal Party in Western Australia, that in relation to the lunch the finance committee had had support from some of the companies represented, but wished to impress the overseas groups especially with the necessity to support the Government and free enterprise. 
-In the last couple of days I have asked questions of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  about his involvement in fund raising for the Liberal Party, particularly amongst oil companies and more suspiciously amongst overseas owned and controlled oil companies. The Minister, who has become known as the Minister for convenient hearing defects, has refused to answer the questions positively. In the first instance, the Minister's involvement in these activities was revealed in the  Laurie Oakes Report  of 23 May. It revealed that there had been a meeting in Perth at which the Liberal Party in Western Australia had been keen to involve the Minister for National Development in fund raising exercises, particularly amongst the oil companies. The  Laurie Oakes Report  states: 
According to Liberal sources, the party is particularly anxious to get financial support from foreign-owned oil companies. In the light of controversies such as that raging at present - 
And a controversy was raging at that time- over the issue of oil drilling in the Barrier Reef area, the Liberal fund raisers could be said to be taking a large risk with  Mr Newman  's credibility . 
Indeed, they are not the only people taking a risk with the Minister's credibility. What we know is that after the last few days the Minister's credibility is in absolute tatters. Having told the Parliament a few days ago the truth and the real reason for the delay in the declaration of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, he later had to change his answer in support of the lies which had been told in another place by another Minister. 
I withdraw the remark. 
-I refer the Minister for National Development to questions which I asked him on Monday and yesterday concerning his secret lunch with representatives of oil companies organised by the Liberal Party in Western Australia and to which the Minister replied yesterday - 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports in the  Financial Review  of 6 June 1979 suggesting that the United States is developing a 'forward basing' strategy incorporating  HMAS Stirling in  Cockburn Sound. 
If so, has his Department been consulted about this proposal. 
Is there any foundation to the report. 
In what other ways is it proposed that the United States will make use of  HMAS Stirling. 
Are there any proposals which would include use being made of  HMAS Stirling  by nuclear powered ships or submarines of the United States Navy. 
Will any nuclear powered ships or submarines of the United States Navy be based or serviced at  HMAS Stirling,  if so, will these arrangements include the Trident submarine. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) How many ships of the United States of America Navy visited Western Australian ports during (a) 1974, (b) 1975, (c) 1976,(d) 1977,(e) 1978and(f) 1979 to date. 
What classes of ships were involved in the visits, which pons were visited and what were the dates of those visits. 
) How many of the ships were nuclear powered. 
Which ships conducted exercises with Australian defence forces in the Indian Ocean prior to or immediately after their visits to Western Australian pons. 
What were the dates of the exercises and the composition of the Australian defence forces involved. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What is the purpose of the National Employment Strategy for Aboriginals which was announced in May 1977. 
Will the Government employ and train Aboriginals in the Commonwealth Public Service as an example to the private sector and to State Governments. 
How many officers, and of what classification, are there in that section of the Public Service Board which has responsibility for implementing the Strategy. 
How successful has the Board been in encouraging Commonwealth Departments to employ and train Aboriginal people. 
How many extra Aboriginal persons have been (a) employed and (b) trained as a result of the Strategy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What purpose is the  Aboriginal Newsletter  published by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs supposed to fulfil. 
Is the newsletter an instrument of Government propaganda. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the last item in Issue No. 30 which reports that the Minister and the Prime Minister addressed a Land Rights and Mining Conference organised by the Western Australian Branch of the National Aboriginal Conference. 
Why was no reference made to the attendance of a Member of the Opposition who was also invited to address the Conference. 
5 ) Why was no mention made of the fact that the Premier of Western Australia refused to attend the Conference because he believed the Conference would serve no useful purpose. 
-In January of this year the Western Australian Government announced its decision to close the Perth to Fremantle passenger rail service. In the ensuing few months a campaign has developed to retain that service. It has received the support of the overwhelming majority of the people of Western Australia. Indeed, I understand that a poll will be published today which will indicate the evidence for the claim of overwhelming support by the people of Perth. The campaign culminated last weekend with a protest rally and march through the streets of Perth and with the release of a record produced and performed by a local Perth group in which the lyrics protested about the closure of the railway line and criticised the State Government for its decision. 
My reason for raising this matter is the reaction of the Western Australian management of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to these developments. In the first instance, after playing the record once, the ABC senior management issued a directive that under no circumstances was the record to be played by the ABC again. At the same time senior people in the ABC management ordered its film crew not to cover the protest rally which was held in Perth on Saturday. The protest rally was no small event. It has been heralded as one of the largest protest rallies held in Perth in recent times. Given the very inclement weather that existed that day, the turnout was indeed significant. 
I do not normally criticise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I recognise that the fundamental principle on which its charter is based is that the ABC should be independent and free of any political pressure from any government or political party. However, these two actions, that is the banning of the record and the decision not to cover the protest rally, have come at the end of a long line of similar instances which I believe reveal a definite pro-Liberal bias on the part of the management of the ABC in Western Australia. I think that this is a very serious situation indeed, because not only is it necessary for the ABC to be independent of political influence, but also it is necessary for the ABC to maintain a level of objectivity, particularly in regard to political matters. 
I do not want for a moment to criticise the work or the attitude of the working journalists of the ABC in Perth. I think that they do their very best under some considerable duress from time to time, to carry out their tasks. My criticism is directed to the senior management of the ABC in Perth who I think represent an entrenched clique of people who are no longer able to comprehend the basic tenets of the ABC, that is independence and objectivity. They have allowed themselves to be stood over by the Premier of Western Australia. There is evidence of this. They have allowed themselves to be browbeaten by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  As a result, the management has given quite cavalier attention to any statements that are disparaging of the Liberal Government in Western Australia or, indeed, of the Liberal Government of the Commonwealth. The banning of the record and the decision not to cover the protest rally are the two most recent instances of this bias. 
I have been collecting evidence of this tendency within the ABC. I intend to include that evidence as part of a submission I will be making to the forthcoming inquiry into the ABC. I will tell that inquiry that the entrenched clique which controls the ABC in Western Australia has failed to carry out its basic responsibility of political independence and political objectivity. I will make some suggestions as to how the inquiry might go about changing the ABC in order to root out these influences which exist at senior management level in Western Australia. One of the important matters to which the inquiry can give attention is the need for some sort of rotation of the management of the ABC at the regional or State level. The senior managerial positions of the ABC at the State level should be for a fixed term. This would allow for those individuals to be rotated around the country, going from State to State. That would not only have the benefit of preventing the entrenchment of attitudes within a particular State but also would help to encourage a national outlook of this very important national broadcasting organisation. 
The State committee of the Australian Journalists Association has taken up this matter and has decided to request from the head of the newsroom in the ABC the reasons for its decision not to cover the protest rally last Saturday. I support the AJA in its decision. I hope that as a result this action we might see a more enlightened view taken by the management of the ABC in Western Australia. One of the most disturbing aspects of this matter is that prior to holding the rally on the Saturday a State Liberal member of parliament, who is known to be one of the most vociferous supporters of the Government's decision to close the Perth to Fremantle railway line, rang the ABC complaining about what he thought was unfair coverage of a meeting held within his electorate on this issue. We are bound to suspect that it may have been as a result of this intervention by that Liberal member of parliament that the Commission took its decision not to cover the rally on the Saturday. 
This is a very serious state of affairs which has developed in the ABC in Western Australia. I hope that, as a result of the revelations that have been made over this current issue and as a result of the forthcoming inquiry, the standard of the Commission's independence and political objectivity will be increased. 
I now wish to raise a matter which relates to the industrial relations situation in the Pilbara. I suspect that not one person in Australia would not like to see a reduction in the level of industrial disputation in that region. Nobody supports the level of industrial disputation; everybody would like to see it minimised. However, in the recent long running dispute between Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd and its employees we saw on two occasions the intervention of politicians into that dispute to exacerbate it and to ensure that a settlement would not be reached sooner than it was. In the first instance we had the quite absurd intervention by the Prime Minister when he was in Western Australia. He made sabre-rattling speeches about the need to establish one union to cover the whole of the Pilbara iron ore industry. That was an act of very great provocation to the workers in that industry. 
Those workers believe that it is up to them to determine the union to which they belong and the arrangements which should exist in relation to their affairs. The intervention of the Prime Minister by saying, in effect, that he would close down existing unions which operate in that area, that he would establish a new one and then insist that all workers join that single union was an instance of his crass misunderstanding of the issues involved in that dispute. The second intervention which occurred earlier was on the part of the Premier. It was a deliberate attempt to exacerbate the dispute by the arrest of union officials involved in it. To use the Police Act to intervene in industrial disputes is quite an absurd notion. In this case it is quite clear that it led to the prolongation of that particular dispute. 
Recently I, together with three of my colleagues, visited Japan and had discussions with representatives of the Japanese steel industry about this question. Their plea to us was to do whatever we could to ensure that industrial relations in the Pilbara in particular and in Australia in general were carried on in a nonpartisan way. I take that to mean that the Japanese believe that politicians, Premiers and Prime Ministers ought to keep their noses out of industrial disputes and allow those disputes to be settled in an orderly manner. 
-The general aviation industry has suffered as much as and perhaps more than any other industry from the failure of the Government to implement a sound energy policy. General aviation provides an extensive range of services, including charter and commuter operations, aerial agriculture, flying training and essential and emergency services. It is one of the economic and social lifelines of non-metropolitan Australia. Yet the Government has failed to see that the industry has access to its necessary supplies of aviation gasolene. Earlier this year a cargo of aviation gasolene- 925 tonnes in quantity- was exported from Australia to the United Arab Emirates. This avgas was produced at Mobil Oil Australia Ltd 's Altona refinery and was produced for use in Australia. It represented about  5lh  per cent of the usual annual local production and was exported in one cargo. 
On Monday of this week, Mobil's supply manager,  Mr Neville  Sutton, denied that Mobil had exported this cargo of avgas. He was right. The export was arranged by BP Australia Ltd.  Mr Sutton  also said that he could not say whether other Australian companies supplied by Mobil were involved in the export trade. In fact, his company was involved in a deal with BP Australia Ltd to export what it and the Government chose to call surplus stock. 
You cannot trust the oil companies to tell the truth about their operations. Mobil knew full well what BP Australia Ltd was doing and was intimately involved in the export arrangements. One cannot trust the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  either. On the radio program  AM  on Tuesday of this week he said that the export to the Middle East 'related to the re-export of surpluses which we imported from Abadan'. Government members know that the Minister told them a different story in his private briefings to them, when compared with the one he told the public this week. What is more, the Government- particularly the Minister for National Development- must carry the responsibility for this export. The Minister has repeatedly claimed that the Altona refinery must be permitted to supply Australia's traditional avgas export markets including New Zealand and Fiji. But the United Arab Emirates is not a traditional customer for Australian avgas. In fact, there has been no other export of avgas to the Middle East, at least, in recent years. The Minister for National Development has claimed: 'At the time the export decision was taken stocks of avgas in Australia were high'. The fact is that at any time from March onwards there was a worsening shortage of avgas throughout Australia. On 7 April the  Canberra Times  carried the following report: 
Airports at Goulburn, Cooma, Cootamundra and Young are reported to be out of avgas, with Bankstown down to its last supplies. Towns throughout Victoria have also almost exhausted their supplies. Melbourne's major general aviation airport at  Moorabin  ran out yesterday apart from some private stocks. 
The Minister cannot expect anyone in the industry to believe that his approval of the Middle East export, either explicitly or implicitly by his failure to object, was a responsible attitude to take in this situation. No one who uses fuel would believe the Minister's assurances about supply. The Minister has been unable to sort out the truth in regard to the date of the export to the Middle East. His Press statement of 20 August claimed that it took place on 2 March. Yet on the radio program  AM  he said two days ago that the export took place in February. He repeated that it was in February. The Department of Trade and Resources records the export occurring in April. On the same day that the Minister for National Development made his statement, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  claimed that the export 'took place in March this year'. As I said, the Minister for National Development asserted that it took place in February. Who is telling the truth? It is obvious that we cannot believe the Minister for National Development. Apart from that, we cannot rely on him to manage fuel supplies, which is a crucial aspect of his responsibilities. 
For three months there were complaints about avgas shortages, yet it was not until 27 June that the Government implemented a system of ship by ship approval for avgas exports. For at least three months these exports had taken place on a blanket approval basis. The Minister was satisfied to hand over to Mobil the job of distributing avgas during a growing shortage which Mobil and the Government had conspired to create. The general aviation industry- indeed nonmetropolitan Australia- cannot trust the Minister to protect its fuel needs. 
-This Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will go down in history as the monomaniacal Treasurer of this country. This Treasurer is monomaniacally obsessed with inflation. Nobody at all disagrees with him that inflation is important. Everybody believes that the inflation rate in this country ought to come down. Everybody accepts that the inflation rate is an important determinant of the level of economic activity in this country. The problem is that this Government has allowed its ideological obsessions with this problem and with many others completely to obscure its view of the Australian community and its overall welfare. Unfortunately the greatest casualty has been the Australian family. The Australian family has got in the way of this Government 's economic ideological obsessions. This Government cares not a bit about the living standards of ordinary people, as was so patently displayed by the Treasurer here today. Having berated the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  for allegedly avoiding the argument about inflation, he then went on to talk about inflation in such abstract terms that he completely failed to acknowledge the consequences of his own policies on the ordinary people. 
The Leader of the Opposition was at pains to point out that an ordinary family now would need an extra $17 a week just to stay where an ordinary family was in 1975. Its living standards have been eroded to the extent of $17 as the result of this man's monomaniacal obsessions. When, of course, he ran out of steam on that question and was unable to substantiate the Leader of the Opposition's alleged failure to address the real question that is before us, he returned to the tired old arguments about Australia five years ago like a gasp from the past. The Opposition and the people of Australia are interested in today's Australia and the Australia of the next 10 years. We are not interested in simply looking backwards and bemoaning the dreadful record of this Government, and bemoaning what has gone wrong. We are interested in highlighting the problems of today and doing something about them. 
The Treasurer so obscured the argument that he ended up talking about overseas borrowing. What that has to do with the Australian family I do not know, except that, as a result of this Government's extravagant approach to overseas borrowing, the family of the future is to be landed with the debt which this Government has placed on its head in terms of the repayments of the loans which it has borrowed in the last couple of years. In fact, in 1975 that debt stood at about $ 100 per capita. The debt now stands at $360 per capita. In the years to come when we have to service that debt from the annual expenditure of the Budget, the additional annual expenditure which families in this country will have to fund, through their taxes, the amount will be of massive proportions. 
Nobody denies that there are difficult economic circumstances. Nobody dismisses the possibility that if we are to overcome those difficult economic circumstances someone has to make some sacrifices. The Opposition diners from this Government in that the Opposition believes that the burden of the sacrifice has to be equally shared. This Government, year after year, for the last four years, has continued assiduously to attack the ordinary Australian family. It is the ordinary Australian family which is carrying the burden of this Government's mismanagement, not the wealthy families. It has taken the Government four years to close a loophole which has been used as a tax avoidance measure by the wealthiest families in this country, namely, the family trust. Through the misuse of the family trust, the wealthiest families of this country have, in fact, made quite profitable use of the fact that they have a family. It is all right if someone belongs to a rich family; he can make money out of it. It is when someone belongs to a poor family, a low income family, that this Government decides to screw him to the wall. It is only in the last few months that this Government has belatedly got round to closing the loophole of the family trust. Mind you, of course, this was after the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  signalled that he was getting out of his family trust. The Government has now decided to close the loophole of the family trust; except, of course, for the wealthiest people in the country for whom it will still be profitable to order one's family affairs around family trusts so as to avoid tax. So families are still profitable for the wealthiest families in the country but they are a distinct disadvantage for the rest of the people in this community. 
There is nothing magic about the idea of the family as a means of social organisation. It is simply preferred by the majority. However, that is not to say that we should discourage other forms of social organisation. What the Opposition says is that the Government ought to get off the backs of ordinary Australian families. The Government ought to prevent extra traumas from being placed on the backs of ordinary Australians. Take one example. What has been the effect of the trauma on the ordinary Australian family resulting from unemployment? I suspect that there are over two million families in this country which are now touched by the horror of unemployment. What does the Government have to say about that? What does the Government have to say about the traumatic effects of having an unemployed child or about having an unemployed breadwinner? What does the Treasurer care about that? He is obsessed by inflation to the extent that he could not care two bits about the social deprivation which comes as a consequence of his quite deliberate policy of unemployment. In this House a week ago he was able to say quite boastfully that this year the purchasing power of the average Australian family will, in fact, decline. This is the man who is part of the Government which, a few years ago, held out great promise, which turned out to be fatuous, for the average Australian family. Yet, over the last four years, little by little this Government has eroded the capacity of families to survive. We can see so many of the attacks which have been made against the Australian family. The horrifying aspect is that the effect has been greatest on the poorest families, on the lowest income families. 
One low income family which has been particularly singled out for treatment by the Government is the family of a student who has to survive on the tertiary education allowance. Of course, we know that the Liberals hate students. They hate anything to do with tertiary education. But they are supposed to like families. So what do they do when students als provide the family income? They forget their families and attack them for being students. A family of a student with a dependent spouse and two children is worse off to the extent of $2 1 a week now than he was in 1975-76. Students are families too, but the Treasurer has forgotten that. 
Great, great grandfather, to be precise. Everybody applauded family allowances when they were introduced. This side of the House too applauded the Government for the introduction of a family allowances, but we have seen, little by little, the value of the family allowance being eroded over the years. The failure of this Government to index family allowances has meant that the family allowance for one child has lost its value to the extent of nearly $3. The loss to a family with five children has been $7.50. That is an indication of this Government's commitment to the family. 
Let us just take a brief look at what this Government thinks about low income families in terms of its Budget of just a week ago. For families on just under $6,000 a year, the lowest income at which tax applies to families, there will be nearly a six-fold increase in the amount of tax paid this year. That is what this Government thinks about families. This Government thinks only about preserving the position of the rich families. It allows the rich still to make a profit out of having a family while it relentlessly assaults the living standards of ordinary families in this country. 
Yesterday at Question Time the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  answered a question from the  Deputy  Government Whip and in doing so I think he deliberately misled this House. We have become used to the sort of deception which this - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member is required to withdraw that expression. 
-I withdraw. We have become used to this sort of behaviour from this Minister. He is contemptible and unscrupulous. 
asked the Minister for Transport,  upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) Was a contract, or contracts, for littoral search in Western Australia awarded to Transwest Air Charter Pty Ltd. 
) Is this company Australian owned or overseas owned. 
3 ) If the company is overseas owned, is it required to seek or obtain Australian equity; if so, by what date. 
Was the award of the contract conditional upon the company successfully meeting these requirements. 
Were any other obligations placed on the company; if so, what are they. 
What period does the contract, or contracts, cover. 
Will the contract be withdrawn if the company fails to comply with any requirements placed on it. 
8 ) Which other operators lodged tenders for the contract, or contracts, awarded to Transwest. 
Which of these operators are (a) Australian owned and (b) foreign owned. 
-We are debating and being asked to approve this Budget at a time when the House is at a particular disadvantage because it is a Budget that has been introduced by a government over whose head a large cloud exists. A large cloud hangs over the head of this Government. Yet it is this Government which is asking this House to approve the passage of its Budget. It is fundamental to the principle of the Westminster system that the Executive retains the confidence of this House in order to survive. From time to time, of course, the Executive asks this House to approve certain measures. On this occasion, the House is being asked to approve the passage of the Government's annual appropriation. 
The House must be able to feel that it is in a position to trust that Government. It must feel that it is in a position to expect the Government to discharge with complete integrity the responsibilities which are placed in it by this House. We must have confidence that the Government will not misappropriate the funds which this House agrees to appropriate for the purposes of running this country. Yet, we find that included amongst the membership of this Government is a Minister who has been found by a quasi-judicial inquiry to have engaged in conduct which would render him quite unsuitable to be a member of any government and to be a Minister in whom this House would be expected to have confidence. The point is that this Parliament must expect the highest standards of propriety to be observed by the Ministers and the Government. Yet right at this moment we have in the Ministry of this Government a man whom it is doubtful that we can say- in fact it is very doubtful indeed- has observed the highest standards of propriety. These standards of propriety - 
Speaking to the point of order, I have not named anybody. I have just said that this Ministry, because of its membership, is not a Ministry in which this House can have confidence. If I cannot express the view that it is important for this House to have confidence in the Ministry and if it is not correct for me to say that it is important for the Ministry which is responsible to this chamber to observe the highest standards of propriety, I really wonder what it is all about. 
-The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is a master of doublespeak. I understand that when he invited people to come to a luncheon last week they were urged to come on the basis that nothing could be finer than having lunch with Viner. I would say, and I am sure that most young people in Australia would agree, that nothing could be viler than listening to Viner in his hypocrisy as we have heard today - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the honourable member to withdraw the reflection on the Minister. 
-Who takes offence? 
If you require me to withdraw,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I withdraw. But perhaps in amongst all this doublespeak of the Minister - 
-Perhaps the most feeble part of the Minister's whole defence was to resurrect the tired old argument about the comparisons between the performance under the Whitlam Government and the performance under this Government. Let me just quote one figure because I do not want to confuse this debate with a whole array of disjointed statistics. There is one very important statistic which people ought to have firmly in their minds, and that is that during the three years of the Labor Government the labor force increased by 261,000 people. It increased by 261,000 in three years. In the 3V4 years of this Government, we have seen an increase of no more than 97,000, about one-third the rate of growth and in a longer time. So that is the important statistic which people have to keep in mind when they measure this Government's performance in the field of employment. 
But as chronic and catastrophic as the problem of unemployment and particularly youth unemployment is, it is not the worst problem that besets this country. Much worse is this Government's, and particularly this Minister's, inactivity in relation to finding solutions to this problem. This inactivity is elaborately disguised behind a network of cunning subterfuge. In the first instance there is a subterfuge in relation to the statistics which measure unemployment. We have seen the Government move from the Commonwealth Employment Service figures to the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures and then selectively use one or the other, whichever seems to portray the best picture for it, to the extent that now most people are totally confused about what is the true measure of unemployment. The next area of subterfuge is in relation to the causes of unemployment. This Government is simply content to blame either the unions or the young unemployed for this problem. 
Then we have the subterfuge in relation to cures for the problem. We have had an elaborate array of great schemes which are supposed to be a cure to the unemployment problem. Again we have had them paraded before us here today. We have had mention of the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme which has bored employers sick. We have had the Special Youth Employment Training Program, which even when administered within the Public Service itself can mean employment for young people for no more than 17 weeks and which on occasions will lead to the displacement of older workers. And so it goes on- this sham list of great schemes to cure unemployment. Fortunately the Voluntary Youth Community Service Scheme seems to have been stillborn, and after a brief flirtation with the idea of work co-operatives, the Government has now moved on to a policy of transition from school to work or, more accurately, from school to unemployment. But more of that later. 
Another area of subterfuge is blaming the unemployed themselves and particularly the young unemployed. Perhaps the worst of this is the simplistic admonitions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That there is something highly obscene and indecent about a millionaire grazier with one of the most privileged upbringings imaginable in this country urging the desperate and despairing young unemployed to accept life's hardships on the chin. The most recent episode on this whole array of subterfuge has been the charade of the National Youth Conference last week. That in no way reflects on the people who took part in that youth conference. No criticism is meant of them at all because I believe that they attended in good faith. 
Let us have a look at what transpired at the Conference. Three main resolutions were passed. In the first place the Conference deplored the Government's cuts in training programs. Secondly it demanded an increase in the unemployment benefit. Those two calls simply echoed an earlier call by the Catholic bishops. Yet, when the Catholic bishops met with the Prime Minister to discuss their proposals and to discuss their findings, the Prime Minister simply dismissed their proposals as unrealistic and unworkable. So already two of the main resolutions passed by the Conference have been rejected by the Prime Minister and by the Government. 
In a third resolution the Conference asserted the right of the young unemployed to receive the unemployed benefit regardless of whether they lived at home or not. Now the eligibility for unemployment was, at the same time, being questioned by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. It was part of what he called a new transition policy. It gave the clearest possible indication of the Government's intention to withdraw unemployment benefits from young people, particularly those who live at home. The clearest indication of this came during an interview on 5 November on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM.  The Minister was asked: 
So if the Government moves in this area it will mean that young people, say if they leave at 15 years of age, will move into these programs and they won't be paid benefits by the Government, their families will be forced to maintain them? 
The Minister said: 
Not necessarily because you presently have a range of special educational allowances,' for example pre.apprenticeship, pre-vocational allowances in the case of special hardship at secondary schools, special allowances there. But as well I think there is the legitimate question which people have to ask themselves and that is, when does family responsibility end and State responsibility begin? 
Here clearly is an indication that this Government is intending to withdraw unemployment benefits from unemployed people who live at home. There is this vague reference to other benefits which exist in the way of special education allowances. I made a few inquiries as to what these might be. The secondary education allowance is a maximum of $550 a year, and that is on a means tested basis. So for the people who receive the maximum amount it is a little more than $10 a week. Is this the substitute to the $36 which young unemployed people are now receiving? Or perhaps it is the pre-apprenticeship scheme, under which the allowance at the moment is $20 a week. Are these the income support substitutes for people who are now on the unemployment benefit? But it is much worse than that. Many families find it a burden to keep their children at school for as long as they do now. Yet, this Government is intending to increase that burden, to extend the burden by insisting that parents continue to support their children long after the time when the children would normally be expected to leave school, not through any fault of the children themselves but because of this Government's failure to find work, jobs, for those people. 
It is quite clear that the resolutions of this Conference will be ignored in exactly the same way as this Government has continued to ignore young people hitherto. Young unemployed people are the new dispossessed, the new outcasts of society. That indeed is true for all unemployed people, but it is much worse for the young unemployed. They are the ones who have so much to offer. They are the ones who are entitled to be expectant about their lives and their future. How does this Government get away with it? How does this Government continue to ignore the young unemployed? It is quite simple- the young unemployed in most cases do not vote and in many other cases are quite ill-informed about political matters. A recent Melbourne survey indicates that the level of understanding of political matters by young people and particularly young unemployed people is very low indeed. They see politics and politicians in this country as being largely irrelevant to their needs and problems. So, of course, that being the case, it is much easier for this Government to ignore the feelings of the unemployed or to ignore their protests, such as they are. 
But this Government has to recognise, and recognise fairly soon, that the continuing frustration felt by young people will lead to even greater disillusion and greater disenchantment. This will make those people a very fertile ground for the operations of extremists from the Left and the Right. What the unemployed and particularly the young unemployed have to understand is that they will be listened to only if they make their voices loud enough to be heard above the mumbo-jumbo of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. This Government is unable to listen to reason. Therefore, the young unemployed have to find other ways to make their voices heard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Do foreign governments represented in Australia have the consent ofthe Australian Government to maintain dossiers on Australian citizens resident in Australia. 
If so, can he say (a) under what circumstances and conditions this activity is permitted, (b) what safeguards exist to protect Australian citizens from infringements of their privacy and other civil liberties and (c) whether the Australian Government or any of its agencies assist foreign governments with this activity. 
-This Bill before us seeks to amend that section of the Remuneration Tribunals Act which deals with the Academic Salaries Tribunal. It will be remembered that in 1974 the then Labor Government established the Academic Salaries Tribunal to overcome a serious problem which had developed throughout Australian universities and colleges of advanced education because until that time there had been no set procedure for the determination of academic salaries. Instead, there had been regular periods of squabbling over the appropriate level of academic salaries. The problem developed because of the increased role of the Commonwealth in relation to the funding of tertiary education institutions coupled with the fact that those institutions were, and still are, autonomous institutions established under State laws. So whilst the Commonwealth had no direct power, as in the role of an employer, to take a role in the setting of academic salaries, it was the Commonwealth which substantially provided the funds for the payment of the salaries. Therefore it was impossible for the institutions to agree to increase the level of academic salaries without the concurrence of the Commonwealth. So in 1974 the Academic Salaries Tribunal was established to put an end to all the squabbling which had previously taken place. Since that time we have had a period of comparative peace. Academic salaries were reviewed in a very broad sense in 1 976 and since then there have been regular increases in line with increases in the cost of living. As the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  said in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of this Bill is to allow the Tribunal to make determinations or reports on academic salaries for: Firstly, newly establish Commonwealth tertiary institutions; secondly, new categories of academic staff; and thirdly, particular categories of staff in all States and Territories for either universities, colleges of advanced education or both; without having to undertake a general review. By extending the Act to cover these three areas it will be possible to clear up the outstanding matters. 
The Bill also corrects an ambiguity as to whether the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 covers technical and further education institutions. This ambiguity resulted from the creation of the Tertiary Education Commission which encompasses these institutions. It was never intended that the Tribunal should cover these institutions and the effect of this Bill will be to exclude them. 
The idea of these amendments is to make it possible for the Academic Salaries Tribunal to make recommendations and to report on certain aspects of academic salaries without having to conduct a general review of all academic salaries. 
The Opposition does not oppose these amendment, but I want to take this opportunity to make some remarks about the work of the Tribunal. I turn to the question of Commonwealth postgraduate awards. Whilst it is not within the purview of the Academic Salaries Tribunal to report on or to fix these awards it is my view that the Remuneration Tribunal Act should be extended so that the Tribunal can report to the Government and make recommendations about the value of these awards. The position has become desperate in the last couple of years because of the declining purchasing power of Commonwealth post-graduate awards. The awards were last increased in January 1978 and since that time we have seen an erosion of their value in two main ways. The first, of course, is the toll that inflation has taken on the purchasing power of the awards. Prior to going into any detail I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a brief table. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

-I thank the House. This table was previously incorporated by my colleague in another place and it sets out the manner of the decline in value of these awards. One factor has been the effect of inflation on these awards since they were last reviewed in January 1978. This table was prepared on the basis of what the value of the awards would need to be in December 1980 to maintain their, real value. It was prepared in the context of the level to which awards should have been increased in the Budget but were not. The table shows that in order to have the equivalent value in December 1980 as they would have had in January 1977, the awards should have a value now of $5,600 rather than their present value of $4,200. So, a substantial increase should have been made to these awards in order for them to retain their purchasing power. 
The other factor which is also very important is that the Government decided that these awards should be taxed. This also has resulted in a substantial decline in the purchasing power of those awards. Because of these two  factors-  the refusal to index the awards to take account of inflation and the taxation of the awards- the awards are now very substantially undervalued compared with their value at the time when they were last increased. If the awards were to have the same purchasing power which they had in January 1977 they would have to be at a level of $6,410. That is some $2,200 more than their present level. It seems to me that the recipients of Commonwealth post-graduate awards are getting into exactly the same position as academic employees were in prior to the establishment of the Academic Salaries Tribunal. It is my view that the Government ought to give consideration to amending the part of the Remuneration Tribunal Act that relates to the Academic Salaries Tribunal to allow that Tribunal to make recommendations on the appropriate level of Commonwealth post-graduate awards. By introducing taxation of these awards the Government was trying to remove them from the area of comparability with tertiary allowances, and some other scholarships. Presumably it was saying that this was an income in the form of salary and therefore it ought to be taxed. It seems to me that, if the Government is saying that, it ought to go to the next stage and include the salaries among those on which the Academic Salaries Tribunal can make recommendations. If that does not happen, we will see a position develop in which Commonwealth post-graduate awards will become less and less adequate to support post-graduate students. 
The recipients of these awards are a relatively small group. They are relatively unorganised. They are scattered throughout the universities and their ability to bring pressure on the Government and to argue for an increase in their awards is very limited. It seems to me only fair that the amount they are paid ought to keep pace at least with the increase in the cost of living. The salary for these people ought to be viewed in the context of the very important research in which they are engaged in universities and colleges of advanced education. At a time when this country is confronted with the problems of the need for research into technology, new processes and so on, it seems to me to be all the more important that we ought to be encouraging rather than discouraging people who are prepared to work in this area. It has now become a great struggle for people to continue at or go back to university in post-graduate work because of the financial burden which is imposed on them and their families. The Government has on numerous occasions expressed the view that research is very important. Massive support has been given to private enterprise in the area of research and development but at the same time we are making it more and more difficult for post-graduate work to be conducted in tertiary institutions. 
I want to refer briefly to one other matter relating to academics working in our tertiary institutions. Universities are in a state of zero growth. The number of new positions which are being created in universities is very limited. In some departments, the effects will be catastrophic in years to come. In some departments, especially in the smaller departments, no new academic staff appointments will be made for several years. There will be no vacancies for 10 to 20 years and as a consequence, the work of those departments will be greatly stultified. I think everybody will agree that it is important for there to be some influx of new ideas and new people into academic institutions but because of the financial constraints placed on universities this is not happening. All that is happening is that departments are becoming full of academics who are getting older and older. It seems to me that this is something to which the Government ought to address itself. The Tribunal may also make a contribution in this area by making recommendations aimed at increasing the flexibility in relation to the transfer of staff between departments and institutions. For instance, there is the possibility of an expansion of part-time work within universities so that in a situation in which the average age of those in the academic community is on the increase, there ought to be an opportunity for the older members of academic staff to move into part-time occupations and to bring in new people to take up the part of the work that they necessarily vacate. 
As I understand it, the Tribunal does not make recommendations in relation to what ought to be appropriate rates of pay for part-time academic staff or related matters including superannuation payments and other employment conditions. These are a couple of areas in which the Tribunal might properly become involved in order to correct a developing situation consequent upon the financial constraints which have been placed on universities. 
The amendments in the legislation are of a minor nature. They do point in the direction of allowing the Tribunal greater flexibility and scope in carrying out its work. I have referred to a couple of areas in which I think the Government could give consideration so as to expand further the scope of the work of the Tribunal and increase its flexibility. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
What area of land does his Department (a) control and (b) use on Rottnest Island Western Australia. 
To what use does his Depanment put this land. 
How many (a) members of the full time services and (b) reserve services make use of this land and how often has this occurred in each of the last 10 years. 
What is the value of capital improvements on the land. 
What was the expenditure on (a) maintenance and (b) extensions in relation to capital improvements during the same period. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I refer him to the Government's decision to fit the naval patrol boats with the obsolete Bofors gun. Did the Minister, in his reply to a question on notice from  Senator Mason,  indicate on 12 September that the design of the patrol boat included a growth margin for additional or heavier armament? What impact has the discovery that the British prototype and possibly the first boats built in Australia are some 20 tonnes overweight had on this growth margin for additional armaments? Does the need to reduce the weight of these boats mean that it will not now be possible to fit further armaments and that, in short, we are stuck with the Bofors gun? Given the number of misadventures associated with this project, will the Minister consider changing the name of this class of patrol boat in order to protect the innocent in my electorate? 
The Minister for Defence will recall his characteristically flatulent reply to my question on 25 October in which, amongst other things, he said that the Bofors gun being mounted on the new naval patrol boats was not obsolete. I ask the Minister whether he has seen an article in a recent Sunday newspaper in which the following references were made: 
The Australian Navy is the laughing stock of the world following a decision to fit its new fleet of patrol boats with a single Bofors . . . gun, developed in Sweden in 1942 . . . Naval experts claim the Bofors are useless against anything bigger than a fishing boat at close range. One expert described it as a 'pop gun*. 
Leaving aside what damage the gun may or may not do to me if, to use the Minister's own words, it was discharged in my direction, what damage would the gun do to the targets in relation to which the patrol boats will, with any luck at all, be finally brought into use? 
-It is a great commentary on the Government that in a major debate on the economy it puts up someone with such a deplorable understanding of the economy as the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  That being the case - 
-I notice that Professor Edwards is going to follow me in the debate. He might be able to lift the tone of the debate coming from the Government side. It will be necessary for me, because of the inaccuracies in the contribution of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, to indulge in a small amount of lecturing. Firstly, it is important to understand that when we are trying to compare the economic effects of one Budget as compared with another, the only reasonable way in which we can make that comparison is on the assumption of a comparable level of economic activity. What my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was trying to do, which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro seemed to misunderstand, was to emphasise that we should realise the fiscal effects of this Budget. If we proceed on the assumption that it was a Budget operating at a time of full employment, then in fact it would be a Budget involving a massive surplus. The honourable member for EdenMonaro has to ask himself whether this is the appropriate time fora government to be running an enormous economic surplus. Are the conditions of this economy such that we should be running an enormous surplus in the Budget? The Opposition believes that that is absurd, and it shares this belief with a large number of notable economists throughout the country. 
-Such as John Nevile whom I will come to in a moment. Another of the misrepresentations made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro was that taxes were higher under the Labor Government than under this Government. We are not ashamed to recognise - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for EdenMonaro has made his speech. I ask him now to remain silent. 
I will not detain the House for long. I want to make a few remarks because, at the time the Distribution Commission was established, I was anxious about what the commissioners might bring forward, given the previous track record of some members of the Commission. I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that a reasonable job has been done in all the circumstances. In fact, I think it is fair to say that the commissioners have created not one but three new seats because the new seats of Canning and Moore are almost totally dissimilar from the seats of the same name which preceded them. They have both become predominantly metropolitan seats whereas previously they were very largely rural constituencies. The seat of O'Connor therefore joins the seats of Forrest and Kalgoorlie as one of the three solely rural and pastoral seats in Western Australia. 
However, the problem about which I have complained before still remains. The Australian Labor Party has to get close to 50 per cent of the two-party preferred vote before it can win more than two seats, and I think that is evidence of some sort of problem in relation to the redistribution. I realise that it is a problem which cannot easily be overcome by the commissioners because of the nature of the distribution of the population within metropolitan Perth. However, it does mean that a bias remains in favour of the non-Labor parties. 
I want to make a few brief remarks- I hope I will be excused for doing so- about the decision of the Government to name the new wheat belt seat after C. Y. O'Connor. It is probably worth remembering that the distribution commissioners who conducted the 1974 distribution, when the tenth seat was created, actually decided to recommend that the seat which was eventually called Tangney should be called O'Connor. 
-It was a better seat in 1974 and 1975. It has gone backwards since then. The point is that the commissioners have revived that proposal, and I think it is very appropriate indeed. It is very appropriate for the seat to which it has been attached because the goldfields water supply pipeline almost bisects the division which bears the name of O'Connor. I want to make some remarks about the very substantial and significant contribution C. Y. O'Connor made to the development of Western Australia. When it is remembered that he resided in Western Australia for not quite 1 1 years, I think his achievements are all the more remarkable. He came to Western Australia just at the time it achieved responsible government. Premier Forrest was anxious to find an engineer who could perform the large number of public works which he and a large number of other people thought necessary at that time. The first of those projects was the Fremantle Harbour. Work on that project was started soon after C. Y. O'Connor arrived, but it was not without some problems. A number of parliamentary and other inquiries were held before his proposal to build the harbour within the mouth of the Swan River replaced a proposal, initially supported by 
Forrest, to build the harbour outside the mouth of the river. O'Connor was accused of being an upstart, a shire engineer from New Zealand, whose judgments should not be valued. However, the professional reports which followed the presentation of his proposal supported it in very glowing terms and in fact said that the building of the Fremantle Harbour was one of the greatest achievements of its kind. 
The population of Western Australia at that time was only 50,000; at the time of his death 1 1 years later it had grown fourfold to over 200,000. That in itself was significant, but the achievements in the field of public works during that time set the stage for the even expansion in the population which followed. One of the reasons I think it is particularly appropriate that this Parliament should recognise the contribution of C. Y. O'Connor is that his relationships with the State Parliament were appalling, one might say. He was pursued relentlessly by members of the State Parliament, and in fact it was that continual pursuit of him and his integrity which finally led him to take his life. I do not think there is any doubt about that. 
It was while he was away giving advice to the South Australian Government that the State Parliament in Western Australia decided to set up yet another select committee to investigate the goldfields water supply proposal, which by that time was already half completed. O'Connor came back to find that the select committee was in full flight and had received a number of very defamatory submissions concerning his integrity and his role in the work relating to the goldfields water supply. One of his last contributions was in relation to a commission given to him by Forrest, when he was Minister for Defence in this place. In April 1901 he asked O'Connor to provide a report on the construction of the transcontinental railway. O'Connor's preliminary report was provided to Forrest and to the Commonwealth Government in May 1901. Indeed, that was probably the last major report he made prior to his untimely death in April 1902. 
An excellent biography of C. Y. O'Connor was published about a year ago. I have discovered that the Parliamentary Library does not have a copy of this book. Following the decision of the Parliament to name this seat after C. Y. O'Connor, it is therefore my intention to make a copy of the book available to the Library so that more honourable members can read about the contribution he made not only to Western Australia but also to Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
