Does the Minister for Social Services recall my constant campaigning during the last Parliament on behalf of mothers who give birth to twins? Will he assure this Parliament that he will view this matter with great concern in order that justice may be given in baby bonus payments? 
 I sincerely trust that the claim of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the Government will pay no heed to the findings of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise is without foundation because I am one whose electorate is subjected to a great deal of noise from aircraft. Only last year when the Committee met in Brisbane J and some seventy residents of my electorate presented certain facts to the Committee. I wonder what has happened to that information. I trust that when the Committee is re-appointed it will note the comments which I and those seventy residents of my electorate made last year. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who has moved the motion for the re-appointment of the Committee, is a former Minister for Civil Aviation. [Quorum formed] The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who drew attention to the state of the House, is an example of what happens to people when they are subjected to too much noise from aircraft. When I was in the United States recently I visited about thirty airports. 1 believe that Australia should follow the example that has been set in North America. There many airports have been re-sited beyond city limits. In Washington. DC. a new airport has recently been completed about 35 miles out of the city so that persons living in Washington will not be distracted by the noise of aircraft. 
Only last year T first suggested that Brisbane Airport should be re-located somewhere between the Gold Coast and the City of Brisbane. My electorate is subjected to some of the conditions which the honourable member for. Newcastle referred to. From time to time residents of the area experience interruption' to television and radio reception. Panes of glass have fallen out of the windows of one old home in the electorate. These facts illustrate how progress and modern science have contributed towards the problems that face the individual today. In his later years - he is still a young man - would the Minister for National Development like to be sitting in his home watching television or listening to the radio, only to be left shaking, and wondering whether the end of the world had arrived as an aircraft zoomed over the top of his house? I ask him to bear these matters in mind when the Government considers the recommendations of the Committee. 
Although I favour the re-siting of Brisbane Airport between the Gold Coast and Brisbane, I do not go along with those advocates from the Gold Coast who have only one thing in mind, namely the parochial promotion of their area, because they do not look beyond tourist promotion and dollars in their pockets when they, talk about resiting the airport. But we cannot forget that residents of Brisbane are now suffering from aircraft noise. This is why I press for the re-location of the airport. I ask the Minister to give an assurance that the Committee's findings will be taken seriously by the Government because the noise of aircraft is seriously disrupting the lives of people not only in my electorate and other electorates in Australia but al! over the world. 
I direct my question to the immensely likeable and competent Minister for Immigration. Is the Minister aware that I learned first hand during my self paid for visit to the United States of America that his Department in that country had received 9,050 immigration inquiries during the month of January this year? Can the Minister say what has been done to take advantage of this interest in terms of migration and how does he assess the United States of America as a future source of migrants? 
I refer to the setting up of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister for External Affairs advise the House whether or not the Australian Labor Party has resolved the great differences which it has encountered in coming to a conclusion- 
Opposition members  -  Oh! 
Just settle down; settle down. 
 We listened quietly tonight to the maiden speech of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and I congratulate him on it. Not only members on his side of the Parliament share some of the feelings he has expressed. It will be interesting to hear next the maiden speech of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  However, might I remind members of the Opposition that the last election recorded the loss of their ninth election in a row in the 20 years from 1949 to 1969. The Australian Labor Party - the great Party that during the last 50 years has been elected to power on only 3 occasions - last year racked up its ninth loss in a row. 
I am quite confident that after the next election it will be 10 losses out of 10. I refer to the last election and draw attention of the House to the remarks of the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party on health matters, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He is an appointed spokesman for the Australian Labor Party on health matters but I would like to draw his attention as a fell'ow Queenslander and somebody who I would like to believe is interested in the welfare of the people of my State to a statement made by his leader during the last election campaign. 
Ladies and gentlemen - I beg your pardon,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I know that there are no ladies and very few gentlemen here but I am quite sure that after the next election the former member for Kingston will be returned and a couple of other ladies will be elected to this side of the House and we will again be blessed with feminine company. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  went on television in Brisbane on a show called 'Meet the Press' and, looking squarely at the cameras, said in his familiar way to the questioners, when asked whether Labor's proposals would destroy Queensland's free hospital scheme: 'No. no' and went off on to another subject. It amazes me how a man in his position, a man of so-called credibility, can go before a television audience and without blushing for one moment deny such an important thing, because the people of Queensland, if the Labor Party had been elected, would most definitely have lost what I understand to be and what most Queenslanders understand to be Queensland's free hospital scheme. For the benefit of new members of the Opposition I might explain that in Queensland no matter how much money a person earns he can go along to the Queensland Government's free hospitals and not pay a single cent for treatment. This scheme has been maintained during the last 12 to 13 years by the Queensland LiberalCountry Party State Government. 
The proposal of the Leader of the Opposition meant that every Queenslander would have had to contribute  i%  of his taxable income for health insurance. In circumstances where a husband and wife were working. thev would have had to contribute up to $100. This to me means that people would have had to pay for a service they are now, and have been, getting for nothing. How the Leader of the Opposition could have thought that Queenslanders were so dim witted that they would swallow his half baked story I will never know. But I was told the story of how this point was raised with the Leader of the Opposition and he said: 'But this does not matter. There are only 18 federal seats in Queensland and with a little white untruth we can pick up enough in the other States to ensure a Labor victory." But how wrong he was. The people of Queensland stood firmly by the Government and returned all but one of the sitting members. There is a lesson in this not only for the Leader of the Opposition but also for all members of the Australian Labor Party. This Party was once a great Party. I have a comment here - I am not going to read from a newspaper,  Mr Acting Speaker  - from an ex-Labor man. He became an ex-Labor man only the other day after 40 years as a member of that Party. The comment reads: 
Digger Dent resigns after son sacked. 
Here we have a reference to the Brisbane City Council. The Lord Mayor of Brisbane holds the highest Labor office anywhere in the country. Now, is that not a condemnation? The Leader of the Opposition was prepared to sacrifice the free health scheme of the State in which a man holds the highest office at present held by the Labor Party. There is not one Labor man left in any high office in any other State. But this - and mark this closely - is what Digger Dent, the father of an ex-Australian Labor Party alderman and himself a member of the Australian Labor Party for 40 years had to say: 
To be a Labor alderman these days you need sticking plaster across your mouth and a strong right arm in Caucus. 
He makes reference to his son and he says: 
Roy was very outspoken on a number of matters but the hatchet men finally got him. 
I wonder what is in store for the Leader of the Opposition. We saw today how he dissociated himself completely from this wobbly censure amendment moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr I. F. Cairns).  He was forced into the position where he just had to speak because the front was wide open and he knew that he had been beaten. It was either speak up or get out of the No. 1 job. So he took the easy way out. He came in and spoke. Yet he did not deny the claim of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  that he had been forced into this position. 
Last night the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  spoke about the Leader of the Opposition and tonight I want to read something more about him. The Leader of the Opposition blossomed like a rose at the beginning of 1967 when he took over from the man to whom he had been loyal, the man he supported and the man whose every order he obeyed without flinching. But as with all flowers, the petals fell away. The Leader of the Opposition also has fallen away and the great spirit and his forthright approach to the Federal Executive of his Party, which many Australians admired, have now disappeared. He bucked like a calf at the branding iron and then after a little time realised that he could not continue in this way. I have what is purported to be an extract from the letter he wrote to his superiors, whom he described as the 12 witless men. These people are in the organisations outside the parliamentary Party. 
The honourable member for Sturt will speak next, so he should wait his turn. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it has been rather amusing to listen to the wiles of the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  in referring, during this discussion on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill, to the present pension rates. Every honourable member realises that pension rates have - nothing to do with the topic under discus sion. But it is even more amusing, or perhaps sad for the pensioners, when we recollect that the Australian Labor Party, the Party to which the honourable member belongs, is the only Party in the history of this nation to reduce age pensions. The title of this Bill is the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and it has been introduced to assist organisations more commonly known as Meals on Wheels. I notice that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is present and I would like to say to him, through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I cannot understand why we could not have called this Bill the 'Meals on Wheels Bill'. 
I refer to the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  who said that no nation can be great unless it seeks not only materially to progress but also to take care of the weaker within it, the aged within it and the ill within it. We must look back over what has happened in the last 20 years. I stipulate that period because this Government has been in power now for more than 20 years. One realises that assistance to the aged and the needy has been left very much in the hands of the LiberalCountry Party coalition. The election held at the latter part of last year marked the ninth successive loss by the Australian Labor Party - as was pointed out last night - in its bid or endeavour to become the government of this nation. The Australian people have been fortunate because of those losses in that we have, without doubt, a more developed social services system than we would have had had the Labor Party ever come to power in that period. 
The Minister for Social Services and his two predecessors have been praised by members from both sides of the House for their individual and sincere approach to social services. The Prime Minister, when he first came to power, enunciated to the nation that he was interested in helping the needy. His actions in the last 2 years, and those of his Cabinet and Ministers, indicate that he has his heart well and truly in the right place. This Bill we are discussing is tangible evidence of the work that has been done. 
I refer to one or two of the other Bills introduced by this Government to assist aged people. I refer to 1951 when the pensioner medical services were introduced and 1954 when the Aged Persons Homes Act was introduced and all the other Bills including the home care programme. The personal care subsidy was introduced in 1969. Many other measures were introduced by this Government in the past few years to help aged people. The object of this Bill is to assist those organisations which are trying to help people who are either invalids or aged to remain in their homes. I do not believe any one of us would cherish any other material object more than our own home. Whether we own it or not, we can shut the door and call it home. To be placed in hospitals or aged persons homes is just not the same thing. I remember that 2 or 3 years ago when a new freeway was going through my electorate in Brisbane many very elderly people said with great sincerity: 'I would rather die here in my own home than be shifted'. These people really felt for their homes and this Bill will assist to keep elderly people in their own homes. . 
The subsidy for Meals on Wheels will make a significant contribution to assisting the organisations which are backing a scheme which is now nation-wide. The scheme has a close personal association. Relations of mine, including my late mother, and even my secretary today, have at some time participated in the delivering of these meals. I have been aware of the existence of this organisation in Brisbane for approximately 10 years. But just over a year ago - in fact a year and one day ago - when the Minister was present in the House and we were discussing the home care programme for the aged I pointed out to the Parliament that at the time the measures which the Government was introducing to assist the Meals on Wheels service were of little benefit to Queensland. Honourable members will recall that at that time the first step in assisting this scheme was to help finance, on a $1 for $1 basis through the senior citizen centres, the purchase of utensils and requirements for the preparation of meals. But unfortunately at that time there was a provision that the meals had to be prepared in a senior citizen centre and in Queensland this was not the case. Most of them were prepared outside senior citizen centres and this assistance was not worth lc. However, at 12.23 a.m. on 29th May I again raised this matter and at the conclusion of the sitting that night the Minister said to me: 'We will try to do something about this' and. something has been done. 
Things such as the Bill .that we have before us give me faith, in the present Government because . the Liberal-Country Party Government over the years has shown, that it does not just talk about what it will do and it does not speak wildly. When one is in Opposition one can throw all the promises in the world around, but what the Government says it will. do it does. Even though it has taken a year and a day since I originally raised this matter, at least it is being done. I can understand honourable members on the opposite side of the House reacting because it is so long since the Labor Party experienced what it is like to be in office. I recall that it is not in office in any State and does, not have to be responsible to the people, just to those it thinks it might appeal to with some of its promises. I feel it important that the Parliament be advised of exactly what is done throughout Australia by the Meals on Wheels organisations in their current operations. 
I turn now to New South Wales where approximately 100 organisations provide some 800,000 meals a year. There is no overt State assistance but almost two-thirds of the meals are prepared in hospital kitchens at a cost to the organisations of 25c a meal. Recipients of meals are charged from 20c to 40c a meal. .Meals are provided primarily to aged people on the recommendation of a medical practitioner. Some assistance is provided by local governing authorities - for example, 2 councils pay taxi fares for the delivery pf meals - and by service clubs. At least 13 organisations use paid employees but profit and loss details are not known. 
When we turn to the southern State, Victoria, we see that meals are delivered by 80 senior citizen clubs which come under the aegis of local governing bodies. Approximately 480,000 meals are delivered annually. In the main the service is available to aged people on the recommendation of a doctor, but where possible the people are encouraged to go to a senior.citizen club for meals rather than to remain at home for a delivered meal. The State provides capital assistance of $2 for Si up to S10.000 to councils for the establishment of senior citizen clubs. Maintenance assistance of four-fifths of the net cost to the councils of operating clubs is provided up to a maximum of $2,000. The net cost is made up of gross cost less subscriptions, donations, charges, etc. The above clubs may or may not provide meals on wheels. There is no assistance to other services providing delivered meals. The usual minimum charge for a meal is 20c. Those who can afford to must pay the full cost, the average charge being of the order of 40c for meals costing some 50c to 55c. In this case once again details of profits and losses are not known. 
In my home State of Queensland - the sunshine State - 20 organisations, conducted by mainly local - committees or church bodies, provide almost 200,000 meals a year. There is no State assistance, although the State would provide capital assistance in order to attract a Commonwealth grant under the State Grants (Home Care) Act, for example, assistance towards the capital cost of kitchens at senior citizen centres. The recipients of meals are charged approximately 30c to 35c a meal. Honourable members will recall that I pointed out a moment ago that in my home State there has been no provision in the senior citizen centres to enable these organisations to prepare meals. In South Australia 2 organisations provide delivered meals. One provided only 600 meals last year. That is not a great number but still it is something and a contribution. Meals on Wheels Incorporated provides over 367,000 meals a year. These meals are provided mainly to aged people recommended by their medical practitioners. The State has provided capital assistance to Meals on Wheels Incorporated averaging $17,000 a year. Maintenance assistance is provided for loss on operations. This amounted to $23,000 in 1968 and $5,000 in 1969, but the basis for assessing the amount is not clear. Meals on Wheels is a multi-functional organisation. Income and expenditure on meals is not shown separately, but in 1968-69 the organisation's financial statement showed almost $6,000 net income over expenditure. In the same period fund raising equalled almost $13,000 and the maintenance grant from the State, according to the statement, was $18,000. Pensioners pay 30c a meal. 
In Western Australia some 20 organisations provide approximately 150,000 meals a year at a cost of approximately 35c a meal. The State provides a subsidy to cover loss of operations up to $1,500 a year to senior citizen centres. These centres provide other services in addition to delivered meals. The League of Home Health provided over 38,000 meals in 1969. This organisation's income and expenditure on its meal service showed a profit of almost $12,000 for the year ended 31st March 1969. In the same period donations and receipts from street appeals raised more than $13,000. Without this income there would have been a loss of almost $1,100 on the meals service. Turning to the apple isle - Tasmania - we find that 1 1 organisations provided almost 75,000 meals last year. All meals were prepared in State kitchens at a cost to the organisations of 25c a meal. Recipients of meals were charged 30c a meal. The State provides a subsidy of 10c a meal to Hobart Meals on Wheels Incorporated. This amounted to $2,200 in 1969-70. 
In my electorate of Griffith, which is made up of some 25 suburbs on the southern side of the Brisbane River, we also have an effective and helpful Meals on Wheels service. As I have already said, in Queensland about 10 years ago the Reverend Young of the St Andrews Presbyterian Church originated Meals on Wheels. The organisation now has cooks and staff in a kitchen of a church hostel at New Farm. They are paid workers, all other workers being voluntary. Each day they deliver between 115 and 120 meals for a charge of about 40c. Each 3 course meal costs 70c to prepare. Meals are delivered throughout Brisbane from this central point. Each year about 26,000 meals are delivered. Deliveries extend not only throughout my electorate but into other electorates. Towards the end of 1968 the Stone's Corner Rotary Club backed the basic organisation to take Meals on Wheels into Bulimba, Norman Park, Cannon Hill, Morningside and Hawthorne. This service was originated by members from the Stone's Corner Rotary Club but work has now been taken up by others. The scheme is now conducted by representatives from all churches in the areas. Members of the group pay 10c a year to join and 50c towards the cost of insuring helpers. I hope that other organisations which participate in this service adequately insure their workers. This is the least that can be done for these people who render such magnificent service. Last year in the area a total of more than 6,000 meals were served over a 5-day week at a cost of 35c to each person. In January this year 562 meals were served and 645 in February. In another part of my electorate the St Andrews Church of England, South Brisbane, has delivered 24 meals a day in the West End and Highgate Hill are at a charge of 30c per person. The church has built its own kitchen in the church hall. The service was commenced in 1968. Parishioners and local firms help to subsidise the service by providing money and food. Only a cook is paid. The cost df preparing the meals is about 60c each. The service extends also to the Dutton Park area. 
I do not say that all in the garden is rosy. I commend the Government for its endeavour to assist but one is shocked to see that in Queensland only 111 meals per year per 1,000 persons are served compared with 188 meals a year per 1,000 persons in Tasmania. I do not know whether the fault lies with the Queensland Government or whether, because many people in Queensland live in a tropical area, it is not as easy to organise the system in the northern State. I would venture to say that meals on wheels is suffering from the affluence of our society. A system such as this depends on voluntary assistance. In the past a great deal of the assistance has come from women whose families are grown or nearly grown and for one reason or another they feel they have a little time to spare. In this position they turn their hands to something useful in society. But today with so many wives working we find this source of assistance upon which we relied so heavily in the past depleted. I hope that the Minister for Social Services will heed my remarks and consult the organisations to ascertain their problems. I know that every organisation conducted in Brisbane is thrilled by the assistance to be given under this Bill, but I was told that their greatest difficulty is in finding people to deliver meals. I hope that the Minister will direct his attention to this problem. No doubt as our society continues along the path of affluence this problem will be accentuated. 
I note that the basis of assistance is $1 for every 10 meals served, without any strings attached. I should like the Minister at some appropriate stage to say whether the money paid to these organisations may be used to consolidate the organisations and to enable them to expand. I give the instance of the organisation in Bulimba using a Commonwealth hostel for the preparation of meals. If this organisation is able to accumulate some funds would it be able to use those funds for the purchase of a kitchen in some area? 
I thank the Minister. It is very reassuring that the money can be used in the manner desired by the particular organisations. I also ask the Minister whether a particular church in part of my electorate - perhaps the Anglican Church or the Presbyterian Church - could acquire a grant and use it in another part of my electorate or in another electorate to provide a meals on wheels service. 
I am sure that the Minister's assurance will ease the minds of some people associated with this scheme. Finally I would like to refer to some of the benefits, including the advantage of contact with other people, which these organisations provide. I venture to suggest that some members of this place may, when they are elderly and alone, look forward to the daily visit of a voluntary helper who arrives with a smile and a decent meal. The service may provide only one meal a day but I know that the meals delivered in my area are very substantial and if necessary the elderly people to whom they are delivered could with supplementing get by on one meal a day. The meal's are sufficient to enable portions to be put aside for a later stage. The service merits the backing of every member of Parliament. I am sure that the community at large will support the service. I trust that when people get to know what is required they will come forward to fill the vacuum that has been created by the women who formerly helped with the service but who are now earning an income. We have heard members of the Opposition on this matter. The Labor Party spokesman, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  propounded the other day a course of Socialism so that we can take meals into every home. But I remind members of the Opposition that not everything can revolve around a Socialist system. Some things have to depend very much on the will and the good spirit of the community. Their suggestions that the Meals on Wheels does not go into the areas where they are most needed I would challenge, because in my area, where a number of elderly people live, there is a good service. 
I conclude my remarks by saying,  Mr Deputy Speaker  and  Mr Minister,  that 1 hope everything is done to encourage the expansion of this most worthwhile organisation. 1 hope that this subsidy amount of 10c in time will grow to 20c so that we can relieve these organisations of the financial burden they presently carry. 
 I wish to take advantage of this opportunity to correct something that I said this afternoon when speaking of this Bill. At that time I referred to the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and compared Queensland's deliveries of 111 meals per 1,000 of the population with the total in Tasmania where they had 188. Unfortunately 1 omitted to use the comparison of South Australia where the rate of deliveries per 1,000 of the population was 322. This comparison would have underlined more forcibly the fact that my State of Queensland lags a long way behind the other States. 
It has been interesting to listen to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  speaking tonight. I suggest, with respect to him, that the ingredient which he left out of the meal that he served to the Parliament tonight was initiative. Initiative has been provided in South Australia and I believe that that State has a goal which all other States should be seeking. I fail to see any reason to condemn and to blame his State government when it has such a perfect record. I trust that the comparison I have made will be noted, because it places my State in an even worse position. I hope the Minister will look into this with a view to working with the Queensland Government to correct this very poor record. 
Has the attention of the Minister for External Affairs been drawn to the latest and worst of a long series of political terrorist attacks on diplomats in Latin American countries, the kidnapping and murder of the West German Ambassador to Guatemala? Am I correct in asserting that we have embassies in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico, 2 of which are kidnapping territory? What steps are we taking to ensure the safety of our representatives in those un-Australian and unpredictable areas? 
Is the Minister for Social Services really aware of the sometimes extremely difficult plight of deserted and widowed fathers who are trying to raise young families and at the same time to provide for those families? Does the Minister believe in the equality of sexes? In view of the fact that widows are helped substantially, will he look very closely at the question of the means with which to assist the male of the species? Will he assure the House that this question, which has been before the House for some 2 years now, will receive his urgent consideration so that this great social need can be met? 
We have just heard a speech from the honourable member for Perth(Mr Berinson) which was a fair indication to the entire Parliament that the Australian Labor Party is completely incapable of grasping the essence of this particular scheme. If the honourable member had done his research properly he would have gone back into the past and would have found quite easily that the basis of this scheme is to provide an incentive for saving. He drew red herrings across the whole argument by referring to land prices.  Mr 
I suggest that in the last few minutes thousands of radios throughout Australia were turned off while the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  was speaking. I had not intended speaking tonight but, having listened closely to the honourable member for Perth last night and having spoken after him for 30 minutes, I was rather amazed that he had (he hide to speak tonight. As I said, I did not intend to speak. I hoped that the Bill1 would be passed tonight so that the young people who had been held up by the delay in passing the measure would soon receive their cheques. However, I might let the people of his electorate know, just as I intend letting the people of my electorate know, that during the debate speakers from the Australian Labor Party have risen and have announced to the Parliament that should their Party come to power they will move for the abolition of this scheme. I am fully aware that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who is on his feet, intends to call for a quorum. 
I apologise,  Mr Chairman,  if the Opposition has been upset by my most pertinent comments. 
I refer to the second paragraph of the amendment moved by the Opposition. It reads:  that the restored benefit provided by the Bill in respect of those persons who were previously ineligible because their savings were not in a designated homes savings account should be dated to commence from 31st December 1967. 
In many ways I am sympathetic to those people who have missed out on a grant because they did not properly designate their accounts away back in 1964 at the inception of the scheme. If the Opposition is sincere about this amendment I cannot understand why it has not set about making it apply from the beginning of the scheme. Honourable members opposite are suggesting that the Government is drawing a line between the people who will be eligible for the extra benefit and those who will not be eligible. As I have explained, those people who on 27th October 1969 did not have their savings accounts designated as homes savings accounts will be eligible under the scheme. But the Opposition proposes that it be taken back to 1967. The Government is fully aware that there must be a beginning for everything. Prior to the last general election the Government said that the first day of business after the elections would be the most appropriate date of operation but the Labor Party, which has suggested that this scheme be abolished, has drawn the line between- 
I will not refer to this matter again. Even tonight the Labor Party has drawn a distinction on the matter of the date. That is something the Government has to face. In these circumstances it is only fair that the provision operate from the last election. I congratulate the honourable  member  for Reid on his handling of his first major piece of legislation in this chamber, even though tonight is not the first time he has interrupted my attempts to present a good argument. 
I direct a friendly and respectful question to the Acting Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to the order of arrangements for the visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen to 
Parliament House on Thursday night? Did he notice that the Queen is to be subjected to addresses of welcome by the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition? Does he agree with me that this is a heavy line-up and that 1 address would be sufficient? Furthermore, did he notice that the schedule fails to mention the anticipated activities for Princess Anne at the ball? Would we be correct in thinking that this is so because the organisers are fearful that the young and attractive Princess might just think that a function such as this is 'bloody'? 
lt is something of a surprise to me,  Mr Speaker,  that I am being asked to speak at this stage. I regret that it is  i  hours earlier than I had anticipated. This denies me the opportunity to make the preparations that I had intended to make. I speak on this Bill as a Queenslander as well as an Australian. Ali honourable members realise that the proposals put forward by the Australian Labor Party prior to the last election would have meant disaster and a backward step for the State of Queensland. Both in this House and during the election campaign I have challenged any member of the Opposition to stand and deny that the proposals of the Australian Labor Party outlined in their policy speeches prior to the last election would not have meant the end of the free hospital scheme in Queensland. I have pointed out before that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  in assessing the political scene, realised that Queensland had only 18 seats in the Parliament out of a total of 12S and that Queensland was insignificant in the total concept. Yet he was able to appear publicly and on television, look people straight in the eye and say that the Labor Party's proposal would have absolutely no effect on Queensland's free hospital scheme. [Quorum formed.] 
As 1 was saying a moment ago, the proposals of the Opposition would have meant nothing but disaster for Queensland's free hospital scheme. A lot of people in Queensland advocate the abolition of that State's free hospital scheme. Looking back over the last 13 years we see how this scheme has been retained and maintained by a CountryLiberal1 Party Government. The Bill makes provision for the Commonwealth Government to assist families with incomes of up to $42.50 to receive full medical benefits and hospital benefits equal to the cost of public ward treatment. Families receiving between $42.50 and $45.50 will be able to receive the same benefits on payment of contributions at one-third the usual rates, and those receiving between $45.50 and $48.50 a week on payment of contributions at two-thirds the usual rate. This might lead the Queensland Government, if it intends to relieve itself or some of the financial burden of running the free hospital scheme, to consider assisting low income earning families who in the future will have to pay only the 80c for a visit to a doctor if the common fee is charged. I know that about $40m is spent annually in running our free hospital scheme in Queensland. It has been most worthy of the Country-Liberal Party Government to retain the scheme. 
There are a lot of people in our community who simply cannot afford to meet the costs of hospitalisation. I speak from personal experience. Nearly 20 years ago 
I spent just over 12 months in a hospital in Brisbane. I am fully recovered now, as many members of the Opposition fully realise. At that time my parents would have been broken financially if they had to pay the hospital bill. I make reference to one provision which has been left out of the Bill. People have to make a financial contribution in order to belong to medical benefit schemes. Some people in the society, by virtue of their consciences, do not believe that they should be forced to contribute to a scheme. I am amazed that the Opposition has not during the course of this debate, made mention of this fact. I should like to read a letter from a constituent of mine. It represents the views of a number of my constituents. The letter is from a  Mr R.  C. McCorkell  and is addressed to the honourable member for Griffith, an electorate which contains 25 suburbs on the south side of Brisbane. It reads: 
I feel it incumbent upon me to make certain remarks as to the Australian Health Insurance Scheme and the recent Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry instituted by the  Hon. Dr A.  J. Forbes on 18th April 1968. 
In order to make my points as clear as I can I will continue this letter in the form of a report wilh the hope that this will set out the details in a more orderly fashion. il.O General 1.1 It is understood that the Committee made a report and submitted it in March 1969. 1.2 This report will no doubt be considered when new legislation is being framed. 1.3 It is my purpose to draw your attention specifically to certain matters mentioned in this report which 1 hope you will agree should not be overlooked. 1.4 I wilt confine myself to matters affecting my conscience before God. I desire to live with a good conscience whatever hardship this may entail to me. 2.0 The Government's Responsibility 2.1 I believe it to be the Government's responsibility and prerogative to secure the best possible health treatment for all members of the community. If some person of limited means is unable to pay the cost of treatment the Government is doing right in ensuring that he is at no disadvantage on this account. Anything the Government does to preserve or prolong life is fully within its function. 2.2 You will agree that the Government also has a responsibility to respect the bona fide consciences of citizens and avoid overruling in the matter of a man's serving or worship of God. This was established as long ago as Magna Carta. 
Late last year I received another letter on those lines which I did not fully understand. The matter was not explained clearly. After meeting 2 or 3 of these people and receiving a more detailed explanation I came to appreciate their point of view. I hope that the Minister, who is present in the chamber, will not dismiss out of hand the suggestions contained in the Nimmo report and will give some consideration to this matter. The letter continues:  2.3 There is, of course, the well known responsibility of Government to protect any citizen from exploitation by any other. 2.4 II is clearly stated in the Holy Scriptures that 'the powers that be are ordained of God.' You will find this in the first verse of the thirteenth chapter of Paul's epistle to the Romans . . . 
Members of the Opposition are ridiculing this but there are some people who feel this way. In order to save time with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the rest of this letter in Hansard. It reads: 
. In the early part of that chapter much light is thrown on the function of Government and the responsibility of the individual to it. 3.0 The Responsibility of the Individual Citizen 3.1 It is the responsibility of the individual to bc subject to the properly constituted authority. That is, the laws of the land must be obeyed and those appointed to administer those laws must be respected as being the direct representatives of the Government itself. 3.2 If conflict occurs between a direction by the Government and what the individual knows to be his responsibility to God, then his course is clear - God must be obeyed rather than man. This is clearly slated in verse nineteen of the fourth chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, and it becomes a guiding principle in a Christian's life. 3.3 It is stated in the second epistle of Paul to Timothy chapter two verse nineteen - 
Let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity', and in verse twenty-one - 
If a man therefore purge himself from these he shall bc a vessel unto honour . . .' and in Paul's second epistle to the Corinthians verse fourteen chapter six - 
Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? . . . ' 
These injunctions leave no option to the Christian but to keep separate from everything that is not according to the will of God. and to be sure that he has no links inany kind of fellowship with any person who himself is linked with what is iniquitous. 3.4 It is the individual's responsibility and indeed the earnest desire of every Christian to put his whole faith and trust in God. For this reason I do not insure my life or my property because this would take me out of the path of complete confidence in God. 4.0 Comments in the Existing Medical and Hospital Benefits Schemes 4.In order to obtain the benefits of these schemes tinder their present method of administration, the individual must join a Friendly Society or similar organisation registered under the National Health Act 1953-1968. The member or contributor is then entitled to payment from the Friendly Society's own insurance scheme and also the Commonwealth Government contributions. 
This is where conflict with my conscience arises and this can be defined in two aspects. - 4.1.1 To join a Friendly Society I must link myself with other persons whom I do not nor could not hope to know.It is inevitable that many of these persons would not be walking in integrity before God, but if there were but one such I could not join as I would then immediately become partaker in his sins. 4.1.2 To join such a scheme I actually insure my health thus taking myself out of the pathway of confidence in God. 4.2 For these reasonsI do not belong to any of these schemes. This, of course, means that any medical or hospital expenses for myself or my family must be paid out of my own resources. 5.0 Additional Comments 5.1 The Government in making certain contributions to the need for treatment of members of the community is, I believe, doing what is right. 3.2 That these contributions are barred from certain individuals who for conscience sake refrain from insuring or from joining a Friendly Society was, 
I  am sure, not the intention of the Government. 5.3 The Committee of Enquiry made certain recommendations in this regard of which paragraphs 4.33 and 4.34 of the report are relevant. 5.4 It is just as important that any employer should not force his conscience on an employee, or that an employer should not be forced to act against his conscience- in arranging for any of his employees to act in a way that he could not do himself. Paragraph 10.6 of the report which applied to employers is therefore also important, and there are no doubt employers who would desire to be free for conscience sake 
Final Remarks 
These submissions and my personal approach to you is with a view to obtaining your good graces to do what is possible to ensure that these matters of conscience are fully recognised when the legislation is being framed so that persons who hold to these things so dearly, and who will not violate their consciences and thus deprive themselves of freedom in their approach to God, may not be put to the disadvantage that would otherwise ensue. 
I remain, Yours sincerely, R. C. McCorkell 
The Nimmo Committee made reference to this matter. In view of the Minister's indication that the scheme will be overhauled in the future, I hope that some consideration will be given to this matter, if not now then later on. 
Finally, I would like to congratulate the Government for having so boldly brought about changes to the health scheme. There are many people throughout Australia who have been unable to afford proper medical treatment. They have been outpriced from time to time and many no doubt have continued suffering because of the economic factor. I know that there are a number of members of the Opposition here tonight who are in fact medical doctors and I know that in all probability they themselves have been prepared to give people services on a free basis rather than to turn them away, and this is highly commendable. In Queensland, we do not appear to have had the opposition to the scheme from some quarters that has appeared in the south. I do hope that the Government will continue to remember that medicine is a profession which is different from any other profession and that the Government will always when considering change bear this in mind and make it the foremost consideration. 
As 1 said at the outset, 1 expected to be speaking not at 8 o'clock tonight but rather after 9.30 and I was caught a little unprepared but I am quite sure that other members of the Government team who will follow me in this debate will ably refute the socialistic views propounded by the Opposition, and that the Australian people will realise fully that if the Labor Party had won at the last election not only would the people of Queensland have been deprived of a free hospital scheme but the people of Australia would have gone 10 steps backwards in the medical treatment that would have been handed out to them. 
 lt is rather appropriate that the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  saw fit to conclude his contribution tonight by referring to the Moratorium. We have heard already two very good contributions from members of the Australian Country Party. But I should like to make some reference to a matter which has greatly upset me. This is the first occasion that I have seen fit to rise to speak during the adjournment debate this year. But being an Australian, I think it was a disgusting spectacle to see the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  standing in the rain here today under the fluttering flags of the Vietcong. I believe that th:s is something which should be put in print and shot home to every Australian in order to show that these leaders of the Opposition are prepared to associate themselves with people who parade this type of philosophy and flaunt it before the Australian public. 1 managed to hear some of the remarks today of the Leader of the Opposition. He claimed that all members of the Liberal Party were violent and that the Party was a party of violence. This was an unfair accusation. I think it reflected the desperation and the level to which the Leader of the Opposition has sunk in trying to retain his position as leader of his Party. 
Just by chance tonight the former leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  told us that if, in 1960, the Labor Party had elected  Mr Ward  as its  deputy  leader the Party would have been elected to power in 1961. I think it is pertinent to took at the reason behind such a statement. 1 suggest the reason is that the present Leader of the Opposition has the people of Australia in a confused condition as to exactly how he stands. Some weeks ago my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  asked the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  whether personal support was assured to the Moratorium Campaign by the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition at a meet:ng of unions affiliated with the Queensland Trades and Labour Council held in late February at the Brisbane Trades Hall. The honourable member for Lilley alleged that at the end of that discussion the Leader qf the Opposition said: I am with you. I go along with you and I support you.' The Minister for External Affairs offered the Leader of the Opposition an opportunity to deny this statement. Later on, after a few days had passed- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  If honourable members listen they will learn exactly what happened. The Leader of the Opposition, in denying this about a week later, and with a perfectly straight face said: 
. 1 have never discussed the matter with that Council. 1 have never corresponded with it; it has never raised the matter with me. 
And had not done so. I am afraid that the honourable member for Reid at times is a little too quick on his feet. 
The honourable member for Lilley, in putting his question, had been careful to say that it was not a meeting of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council but a meeting of a number of affiliated unions held in the Brisbane Trades Hall. The honourable member for Lilley referred to the official minutes of the Queensland Vietnam Moratorium Campaign Co-ordinating Committee. Incidentally, this meeting was held in the Waterside Workers Federation building on 12th March and was attended by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  The honourable member for Lilley quoted a report appearing on page 2 of the minutes. If the honourable member for Reid will listen I will quote this for him. It states that a meeting of delegates of 23 unions under the auspices of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council1 had been held and that  'Mr E.  G. Whitlam had attended the meeting'. The honourable member for Lilley was able to add that those minutes had been confirmed at a subsequent meeting of the Co-ordinating Committee held on 25th March. To this date the nominal Leader of the Opposition has not replied to these allegations. I do not believe that there are Communists in the true sense in every second bench on the Opposition side, but I believe that honourable members opposite are continually associating with Communists, The  Chairman  of the Committee to which I referred is  Mr Phil  O'Brien, a member of the Waterside Workers Federation. He is a Communist. Honourable members opposite leave themselves open to this type of criticism. 
In the early stages of the Campaign the Leader of the Opposition played ducks and drakes as to whether he wanted to be in the Moratorium Campaign or not. Half the members of the Opposition wore badges one day but not the next. We have not seen them so united as all to wear their blue buttons or badges on the same day. I hope they think tomorrow is the day to show where they really stand. I know that some decent members of the Opposition refuse to have anything to do with the Moratorium Campaign- Only last Monday, just 3 days ago, in Brisbane the Leader of the Opposition led the Labor Day procession. I refer to an article in the 'Courier-Mail' of Tuesday, 5th May. On page 5, under a big heading 'Radicals defiant: In parade' the following article appears: 
Redical  left-wing students and the Brisbane branch of the Waterside Workers Federation yesterday openly defied Queensland Trades and Labour Council  president (Mr J. Egerton)  to take their place in the annual Labor Day march through the city. 
I will give honourable members a quick history of this as time is running out. The Labor Day procession committee refused permission for 50 or 60 radical students to march. To quote  Mr Egerton,  they could not be trusted. Earlier he described them as ratbags. The Labor Party wanted to refuse permission for these people to march in the procession. I think this is very significant and an indication that the Labor Party thinks that such people are not fit and proper persons to take part in a Labor Day procession - that they are ratbags and cannot be trusted. An hour or so later the Leader of the Opposition addressed a gathering of these same people who had been banned from marching but who had defied the order and marched. According to the 'Courier-Mail' he said that he was happy that the Queensland people had achieved recognition of the Labour Day holiday. The article continues: 
This week there would be another march and demonstration on Moratorium Day. 
I invite honourable members to take note of the following words: 
I hope that all you people who joined in today's celebration will march. 
I ask what right has the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Lalor or any other member of the Australian Labor Party to prevent a group of people from marching in a procession because they think these people are unfit persons to march but to regard them as being fit persons to be sooled on to the Australian public on an occasion such as Moratorium Day? Members of the Opposition say that they take no responsibility for what will happen; they do not want violence, yet they will soo! these people on to the public. If anything does happen they have no alternative but to accept full responsibility. The Australian Labor Party, which was once a great Labor Party and a great Party, is no longer anything in the eyes of a majority of Australians. 
 It is rather amazing that the debate this morning has been carried on following the remarks of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  He said that the contribution of the Australian Labor Party to the Moratorium Campaign was only assisting the Vietcong. Not one member of the Opposition has effectively refuted bis contribution. 
I have just 10 minutes to deliver this speech on a subject which I sincerely believe is worthy of far more time, but I hope my remarks on the legal and social implications of the tape recording of telephone conversations will arouse such interest throughout the nation that this occasion will mark just the beginning of discussion of this subject. I remind the House of the case of the late Alderman C. G. Penridge, the then Mayor of Cairns, when approximately 15 months ago he was convicted on a charge of soliciting from an estate agent a sum of money and a commission in the event of the sale of a building to the Cairns City Council. The conviction was made following the Stipendiary Magistrate's decision to admit a recording of an alleged telephone conversation purporting to be a record of a discussion between the Mayor and the estate agent. Frankly, I am not at all interested in the fact that it was a cheap tape recorder and some parts of the recording were inaudible; there is a far greater principle involved. 
Some time after his conviction Alderman Penridge, whom 1 had never spoken to or met previously in my life, rang me at my home in Brisbane from Cairns. He said that he was aware of my public utterances on the subject of civil freedom and asked if I would help him. When I asked why he had not appealed against the decision, he said he did not do so because he was too sick. I clearly recall saying to him that it was not for me to judge his guilt or otherwise but I would, on his behalf, examine the whole question of the admissibility of taped telephone conversations as Court evidence. Within a month of our conversation he died but as far as I am concerned his case is very much alive, as I have assured his widow and daughter since the time of his passing. Nevertheless, for the first time in the history of Queensland, and probably Australia a tape recorded conversation had been used in evidence in criminal proceedings. 
The stage having been set, the following events are not surprising. On Monday, 1st December 1969, a . letter appeared in the 
People's Forum section of the Brisbane Telegraph' from a  Mr Des  Ney Ian, Secretary of the Liberal Civic Party - incidentally, a political party having no connection whatever with the Liberal Party. In this published letter,  Mr Neyland  stated: 
For the information of the CMO - That is another political party: 
I regarded the approaches to me as so vital that I recorded the telephone conversation on tape and will be happy to play it back to the CMO should they desire. 
Those who were here in the last Parliament can well imagine how 1 reacted to this. But 1 held my ground and waited a fortnight for a public outcry. Not a word of protest was raised even though there was a statement in black and white - in all probability innocently written - admitting to an infringement upon the rights of the individual. 1 wrote to the Postmaster-General prior to leaving for central and north America on a private trip. 
I paid my own way, yes. I drew the attention of the Postmaster-General to my opposition to the happenings in the Penridge case and also to  Mr Neylan's  admission in the Brisbane 'Telegraph'. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard  Mr Neylan's  letter. 
The CMO  president, Mr Barnes,  claims in the Telegraph  (19.11.69)  that no approach has been made to the LCP to unite with the CMO. Once again, I must defend the LCP and state the facts. 
On several occasions, over the past few weeks, a person approached me by telephone asking me to rejoin the CMO and to bring the LCP with me. 
I was also told that if I did not co-operate and join the CMO then the LCP and myself would be destroyed and would face political extinction. 
Naturally I do not bow to threats of this nature and the LCP, I hope, can continue as the third municipal party in Brisbane, and will be able to overcome the present proposed threat. 
For the information of the CMO I regarded the approaches to me as so vital that 1 recorded the telephone conversation on tape, and will be happy to play it back to the CMO should they desire. 
I would also like to correct  1  other item. The main reason for the formation of the LCP was not over the method of selecting candidates: this was but  1  of  6  reasons. The main reason was the failure of the CMO to provide an effective opposition to the A.L.P., and that the CMO did not wish to win but merely take the easy way out and remain the opposition. I am still informed that this idea is still being adopted - gain a few seats in 1970 and win in 1973, when it is hoped that Aid. Jones will retire. 
Our dispute with the CMO over candidates in 1967 is quite justified when the results of a selection of candidates can be known 3 days prior to the selection meeting taking place. 
Finally I wish to point out to the CMO that the same CMO member who approached me recently to 'have peace talks with the CMO* actually contacted me 6 months ago for another reason, to become the LCP Lord Mayoral candidate. I was unaware of his CMO affiliations at that time, and fortunately we did not accept. - Des Neylan, Secretary, Liberal Civic Party. 
Also with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate my letter to the Postmaster-General. 
December 15th, 1969. The Honourable A. S. Hulme, M.P., Postmaster-General, G.P.O., BRISBANE. My Dear Minister, 
For some time I have been worried by the apparent increase in instances of telephone conversations being recorded without the knowledge of the other party. 
You will remember that (he late Alderman G. G. Penridge - the then Mayor of Cairns - was convicted following an alleged recorded conversation. I. am still greatly disturbed, by the fact that your Department took no action against the person who recorded the alleged conversation, and allowed the recording to be used as Court evidence. 
Following speeches and questions in Parliament, my views on the intrusion into the private life of individuals have been reported in the Press. It was shortly after his conviction that Alderman Penridge contacted me, as be apparently knew of my interest. 
A little time after that unsolicited telephone conversation, and my promise to Alderman Penridge that when the time was ripe I would move on his behalf, he died. That happening has not changed my attitude. It is not of my concern whether Alderman Penridge was guilty or not guilty, but the method of his conviction is a principle I am not prepared to see sacrificed. 1 have assured his Widow and Daughter of my determination to fight this prostitution of a basic freedom. 
On Monday, the 1st December, in the "Brisbane Telegraph", the column "Letters to the Editor" carried a communication from a  Mr. Des.  Neylan of the so-called Liberal Civic Party. I have watched for two weeks to see whether or not there would be public reaction to the statement, following his frank admission that he had recorded a telephone conversation. 1 sincerely hope that this matter has been brought to your attention, because it  too  is in contravention of the Act. 1 have known  Mr. Neylan  for a number of years and have no personal desire to bring harm to him. In fact, 1 often admire his efforts in assisting aged people and those in need. But I am of the firm opinion that your Department has no alternative, in the event of the recording having been made without the other party's knowledge, of taking action against him. 1 am further of the belief that Alderman Penridge was wrongly convicted by virtue of the nature of the evidence brought against him. 
In seeking your views of the above mentioned, I assure you that when it comes to the matter of the infringement upon the privacy of individuals, I will go to any length to stop bureaucracy and officialdom, even though when it comes to national security, I have that issue in correct perspective also. 
Yours sincerely, (D. M. CAMERON, M.P.) 
Does the Minister for the Interior recall his own and his predecessor's assurances that something would be done to prevent the postal voting racket which makes a farce of Commonwealth, State and local government elections in Australia, particularly in Queensland? Will he discuss the matter with the Prime Minister and explain the situation to him so that high legislative priority is given to this matter, thus preventing a situation whereby the next Senate election will be held with the system still needing urgent attention? 
1 direct my question to the Attorney-General. I refer him to the address that I made in the Grievance Day debate recently on the subject of the recording of telephone conversations. I ask the Minister: Can he inform the House when proceedings will begin against  Mrs Berman,  the woman connected with the Victorian abortion inquiry, who taped telephone conversations, which is against a Commonwealth Act? 
 We have listened this afternoon to tirades of criticism from a number of members of the Opposition, and I refer particularly to the last 2 Opposition members who have spoken. I remind honourable members that if the Australian Labor Party had considered this matter to be of such importance and had really been on the side of the nurses, as it has been claiming and stamping about this afternoon, it could have easily had this debate on a day when the Parliament was being broadcast. This in effect would have ensured that the nurses' cause would have been promoted to a far greater extent than it has been today, but the Opposition did not do this. Yesterday afternoon I crossed the road in front of Parliament House and stood for a few minutes listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was addressing a gathering of nurses. He ranted and raved in what was very much a political speech. 
It is all very well for someone to stand up in this Parliament and say that nurses should be given more money, when he knows full well that this matter has been decided by the Full Court and is being raised again, and not tell the truth. The fact is that the Government is unable to interfere, even if it subscribed in every way to the claims of the nurses, because this is the whole process of our democratic system. It was so appropriate yesterday that the Leader of the Opposition, when finishing off his address, said: 
Girls, there is one way you can do something about this. On 30th May- 
We heard the girls say: 'Here it comes.'. Then there was a message to vote for some Labor candidate who had recently been endorsed by that Party for the coming byelection. I might remind honourable members opposite that the previous member for the Australian Capital Territory was the late  Mr Jim  Fraser, a man whom we all held in great respect. If the Leader of the Opposition thinks that the nurses arc so naive as to accept his suggestion, no wonder the Australian Labor Party has lost 9 Federal elections in a row. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the shadow Minister for Health, presented a fairly statistical type of address today, with figures and comparisons of our nursing system with those of other countries. The honourable member for Oxley often contributes to this House without a written note but today he had a prepared speech. I heard one of my colleagues ask: Who wrote that for you?' but the honourable member seemed to ignore it. I am very sympathetic towards the nursing profession. When I was some years younger I spent just over 12 months in a Queensland hospital. I came to admire very much the work and dedication of the nurses. I frankly would not like the sort of life that they lead - with broken hours, commencing duty in the early hours of the morning with a first shift of 3 or 4 hours, then a few hours off in the middle of the day, and then coming back at 4 or 5 o'clock in the afternoon. Their day is broken up and they never have time to call their own. The nurses in Queensland had to return to the hospital by 12 o'clock at night. They were like Cinderellas. On a Saturday night the matron was especially generous and allowed them out until 12.15 a.m. That does not happen as frequently as it used to. I would not wish that sort of life on anybody. That is the type of conditions that nurses work under. 
The honourable member for Oxley referred to the high percentage of losses of nurses to the profession once they graduate. This is quite a normal happening. After what I saw yesterday my opinion has not changed. Nurses are On the whole a bunch of very attractive women. The normal process is for girls such as these to get married. One honourable member suggested that more should be done to attract these nurses back into the profession later on in life. Perhaps more attention should be paid to bringing them back into the nursing profession once they have raised their families. The loss of nurses is a normal thing. 1 refer to the speech made by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who suggested -that the Commonwealth Government should interfere in advancing the aims of nursing groups. The honourable member d:d not tell the House that it would be unconstitutional to interfere with State matters and rights. It is not a matter of just giving money to the States. The States get their money from the general revenue grant. State expenditure on hospital maintenance is moving in proportion to the moves in amounts of general revenue grants. Perhaps we might look at this a little closer. 1 suggest that in this area the States should be allocating an improving percentage of their resources to hospitalisation. We are fully aware that throughout Australia in recent years there has been an improvement in the area of nursing aides. If the honourable member for Kingston is honest - ] have no reason at this point of time to believe that he is not; he has been here only a little while, and as time passes we will find out - he will recognise that fact. Clerical assistance is being introduced slowly and helpers are employed to do the more menial tasks for the nurses. 1 support the improvement and trust that the process will continue at a much more rapid rate. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  has been the most inaccurate  speaker  here today. He made the claim at the beginning that this Parliament only some days ago set the salaries of the doctors by adopting the new health scheme, lt is a pity that the honourable member did not understand the Bil that was introduced. The doctors' salaries are determined by the patients who choose to attend their surgeries. Furthermore, the Government has only agreed with the representatives of the profession as to what is the most common fee charged. Contrary to the claims of the honourable member for Barton, the Government has not set these figures. The honourable member said that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  passed the buck to the Slates, yet he did not say what the Commonwealth should be doing. At least the honourable member for Kingston had the audacity to say that the Government should act on an unconstitutional basis, but the honourable member for Barton made not one suggestion. 
We on the Government side recognise that the standards of nursing need lifting. Looking back to recent years we recall that the basic training for a nurse took 4 years. Throughout Australia today it takes 3 years, except in some hospitals in South Australia where it can range up to 4 years. In Toronto recently I visited a couple of lasses who had left Australia as fully qualified nurses. In Canada their qualifications were not recognised. I subscribe fully to the need for improvement in this area. I do not believe that the wording suggested by the Opposition - of the grave and deteriorating state - is fully justified. Investigations have been carried out and reports made over the last 3 or 4 years which have been submitted to the various State governments. These underline some of the failings in our nursing system. I hope that the Minister for Health, while he cannot directly interfere as some of the Opposition members would suggest because it would be unconstitutional, will work in closely with the State Health Ministers to try to bring about an agreement on what is an acceptable standard of nursing training throughout Australia. 
As I said, the Government is most definitely not opposed to the aspirations and hopes of the nurses. In a changing society where the standard of education is rising, it is only right that these young lasses should be assisted in every way possible to upgrade their standard so that they can take their place in the world in  a  very worthy profession. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Last Tuesday 1 asked the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  a question on the subject of the use of tape recorded conversations in the inquiry at present being conducted in Victoria. That question followed a speech which I made on 7th May when 1 raised the whole question of tape recorded conversations and their admissibility in court as evidence. 1 make no apology for raising this matter in this debate today because the apparent lack of interest on this subject in our society has driven me to the stage where 1 believe that I must keep keeping on and keep drawing attention to what I describe as the erosion of the liberty and privacy of the individual in this nation. Section 16a of the Post and Telegraph Act states that it is illegal to tape record a telephone conversation. We have all listened to radio programmes wherein interviews are had with people who telephone in. Honourable members will recall that when the programmes are broadcast there is a beep every 15 seconds because it is a requirement of the law that if anyone uses one of those terrible 4-letter words the interviewer should have an opportunity to cut it out. In conformity with the provisions of the Act every 15 seconds the beep is given to warn the person being interviewed that the conversation is being taped. Yet in the last 12 months or so happenings in this country have indicated that State governments are making a complete farce and a mockery of the laws of the Commonwealth. 
I remind the House of the case of the late Alderman Penridge in Queensland just over a year ago. He was convicted on the evidence of a tape recording. Honourable members will recall that I have mentioned this case before. He had been charged with having worked a deal with an estate agent to solicit a sum of money and a commission in the event of the sale of a building to the Cairns City Council, and he was convicted. Yet the Commonwealth stood by while the State was prepared to forget about the Commonwealth Act. I wonder what collusion is being worked between the States and the Commonwealth on matters such as this. Recently I was in the United States of America. Honourable members will know that since my arrival in this House this matter of tape recordings has been of great interest to me. When I was in the United States recently I tore an article out of a newspaper, the city of origin of which unfortunately I do not recall. That article is headed 'Developer Smith Wins Dismissal of all Perjury Counts'. It reads: 
San Francisco- all five perjury counts against Los Angeles developer Keith Smith were dismissed Thursday after two tape recordings the prosecution sought to introduce as evidence in the trial were ruled inadmissible. 
I wonder exactly where we are going in this country. I refer to the Melbourne 'Age' of Thursday 29th January and read an extract which refers to the Victorian abortion inquiry. Here wc have it in black and white: 

 Mr Vernon asked permission to play a recording of another alleged conversation between  Mrs Berman  and Ford. 

 Mrs Berman had said this tape was made after her first visit to the Solicitor-General's office and on the morning of an edition of Truth newspaper which was mentioned in the phone call. She said it was some time before Christmas. 
The tape purports to begin with a woman asking: What does it say? 
Man: Oh, the front of it 'We paid off the Cops,' by Evan Whitton . . . It's all you, Bert, someone coming to . . . 
It goes on and on and on. Yet on Tuesday the Attorney-General said that he was considering whether or not proceedings will be taken against  Mrs Margaret  Berman. I am very pleased with the co-operation and the genuine interest that the Attorney-General has shown in this matter but 1 do not think there is any question of whether or not proceedings should be taken against  Mrs Margaret  Berman. She has breached a Commonwealth Act. If honourable members in this Parliament are prepared to sit year in year out and see Acts which protect the individual completely flouted, I wonder where this nation will finish up. if in a few months we have doctors, policemen or nurses convicted as a result of  Mrs Berman's  tape recordings what hope has the ordinary individual of claiming protection against this method when such a strong precident has already been created. I abhor the precedent which has been created in Queensland. The Queensland Government has somehow allowed the use of a recording in the case against the late Alderman Penridge which was heard by a stipendiary magistrate. 
Recently 1 mentioned the case in Brisbane of  Mr Des  Neylan who had recorded a telephone conversation and actually was so naive as to write to the Brisbane Telegraph' stating what he had done, lt is high time that this Government took some action. It is high time that this Government moved to amend certain sections of the relevant Act to bring it more into line with what can only be regarded as the electronic age. Honourable members in this Parliament have been entrusted to look after the welfare of the people of this nation. Unless we show more concern for some of the very basic and important issues I do not believe that any of us has any right to condemn those who resort to more rash methods of attracting public attention. The Parliament is letting these important issues pass, lt is little wonder that the young people in Australia turn out in the streets and take part in demonstrations. I believe questions such as these are very easily answered. I do hope that both the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  and the Attorney-General will meet together to work out something which will ensure that the people of Australia are not frightened to have a telephone conversation for fear that a recording might be made. It is so easy to get a tape, cut pieces out of it, join ii and then go along to the police and say: 'This is exactly what happened'. The Act was introduced originally to protect people. Let us ensure that we invoke the Act and thus stop the situation which seems to be developing today in Australia. 
Electorate allowances, yes. As I was saying, if members of Parliament were paid more by way of electorate allowances, they would be able to hire more accommodation space outside Government offices. That is where I draw the comparison. I am very sympathetic towards you,  Sir, because  the office which you must use in Brisbane is not what I would regard as suitable for a member of your calibre and a man of your standing. 
Further. I wish to make reference to the 1970s. The Australian national Parliament commenced on the 1st day of January 1901. Here we are, nearly in the middle of 1970, and I would say with great respect to you,  Sir. that  as far as conditions of and assistance for members of Parliament are concerned, we are back in 1901. As most honourable members realise, I was in the United States of America recently. I paid my own costs on that trip. I went to the United States and to other countries to learn what is being done in them. 1 could not help but be impressed by the realistic attitude adopted by the Government of the United States in relation to providing assistance for members of Congress. I readily concede that, as some of our electorates have 60,000 voters on their electoral rolls while some country electorates, such as the electorate represented by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  have approximately 32,000 voters, that no comparison can bc drawn between our city electorates and most of our country electorates and the 300,000 to 400,000 constituents in United States seats. But the point is that when we take it on a population basis the American Government has a far more acceptable and realistic attitude. 
Members of the United States House of Representatives are provided with research workers and more than just one secretary. As a member of the Federal Government representing approximately 120,000 people in my electorate, I have just the one girl in Brisbane to take care of things while I am hire and to help me with my work when I am back there. I would suggest with great respect that this is completely unrealistic. For a start, each member should be supplied with a junior girl. This of course depends on how a member of Parliament runs his electorate. If he does not care a tinker's damn about his constituents and does not try to keep abreast of things he probably would not need anybody. He could probably bring in his aged mother-in-law on 1 afternoon a week when he is out playing golf. But if he is a conscientious member who wants to do the right thing he cannot get by with the present facilities. 
I return to the point that I made about United States Congressmen, who are provided with research workers. I feel great pity for members of the Labor Party, particularly for those who make up the front bench, because every time they wish to make a speech they have to prepare it in opposition to Ministers and they have a minimum of help. In this field more assistance should be given. As I say, it should be given to all members of Parliament if they so desire. I know there have been cases in the past where some secretaries have not been usefully employed. Perhaps the Government could introduce a system whereby members of Parliament could be given additional assistance on the basis that they pay a percentage of their allowance towards the cost of the person's salary, if they genuinely believe that they need this assistance, and the Government make up the rest of the salary. We live in a changing world. The papers which come to my table every day, both in Canberra and in the electorate of Griffith en the southern side of the Brisbane River, is absolutely amazing. Those organisations which take so much trouble to prepare literature to forward to us do not know just how much is thrown into the rubbish bin and never looked at. It is absolutely impossible for members of Parliament to do anything about it. 
We are referring, of course, to the matter of parliamentary allowances, and I realise that you are about to draw my attention to that fact,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is a member for the Opposition, told me that during his first 3 years in this Parliament - I have not spoken to him lately about it - he was well and truly out of pocket on the expense allowance. 1 am not saying he was complaining. I do not think I make money or lose money. But I do believe that it is high time that we as members on both sides of the House commenced strong and united agitation for an improvement of the conditions and facilities under which we work. Even a tally clerk at the local fish markets at the other end of my electorate has a bigger office than the bathroom size office that I have. I know it will be said that I am being offered a different office but,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  might I tell the House what the Department of the Interior was about to offer me? It was about to say: 'Your secretary can move out of your office.' 
As a Queenslander, I am more than happy to bc associated with the discussion on the creation of the Australian Institute of Marine Science in North Queensland in the electorate of Herbert. Honourable members will recall the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  last October of the Government's intention to establish such an institute. This Bill provides for the establishment of an institute to be known as the Australian Institute of Marine Science, and makes formal provision for the detailed planning of its functions and powers. Many people no doubt wonder exactly what this marine institute will do and what it will set out to create. I respectfully suggest that there are many areas in which an institute of this type can do a lot of good work. It is most appropriate that we as an island continent should be, as we enter the 1970s, stepping into this area. 
For instance, such an institute would be most important to the fishing industry. As has been done in overseas countries, an institute can often inquire into the management of existing fisheries and the efficiency of fishing operations and new fisheries. There is also the subject of fish preservation, the subject of fish and shellfish cultivation and the modification of the environment. lt could also help the seaweed industry. Many honourable members on the other side of the House do not realise that in Scotland there is a seaweed industry that is worth some S2m a year. The seaweed is actually cultivated. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  mentioned the pollution of water by oil, by sewage and by industrial and agricultural wastes. lt is most appropriate that Townsville in the State of Queensland has been chosen as the centre for this Institute. The Great Barrier Reef is a formation which more and more Australians are realising is more than a lucky blessing to this country. As a Queenslander, I am very happy that it is by the shores of Queensland. I am very conscious of the responsibility not only of members of the Parliament from Queensland but from all over Australia to do something to make sure that the future of the Barrier Reef is never jeopardised and that everything possible is done to preserve it not just for the next generation but for generations many hundreds of years away. 
I might make mention of the officers who have been appointed as the Interim Council. They are: Professor Burdon-Jones of the University College of Townsville, as it has been called;  Dr Fisher  of the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral Resources; Professor Dorothy Hill from the Department of Geology and Mineralogy at the University of Queensland;  Mr Walter  Ives, Secretary of the Department of Primary Industry;  Mr D.  F. McMichael, Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service in the State of New South Wales; and Professor R. J. Walsh, representing the Australian Academy of Science. We all know that the Prime Minister himself has taken a particular interest in the creation of this Institute. I take this opportunity to also compliment the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  because I know that behind the scenes the honourable member for Herbert has been pushing for the creation of an institute such as this. Again I compliment the Prime Minister on his appointment of the members of this Interim Council. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The House has been discuss:ng the setting up of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. Before the sitting was suspended for dinner ] said what a great pleasure it was to me as a Queenslander, that the Prime Minister, who played such a major part in ensuring this scientific advance, had chosen Townsville, so close to the Great Barrier Reef, as the site for the Institute. 1 want to refer to the international aspects of marine science but before doing so to point out that Queensland is one of the States which make Australia such a great international tourist attraction. Every honourable member - 1 include the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  - believes that his little home town or his little orchard is something for the world to see. However if we are realistic we realise that, in most cases as with the honourable member for Mallee, there are many days between visits to our home town areas by people from overseas. 
The Great Barrier Reef is the heritage of Queensland and of Australia. I believe that this Government has an obligation to ensure that this heritage is protected. Tourism is now worth just over SI 00m a year to Australia. However, recently when on a private trip through central America and north America 1 learnt that tourism was worth more than $1 b:mon a year to Mexico, over $80m a year to the little island of Jamaica, and that the State of Florida in the United States earned $6,000m a year from this source. 1 do not think we have any reason to be smug because we earn $10Om a year from tourism. We must look to the resources within our reach and fully expand them to achieve the maximum income from tourists. 1 w sh to mention some of the international aspects of marine science and the scope for international co-operation in this field. Marine science is being recognised increasingly as an important avenue for international co-operation. Four principal areas call for multi-lateral co-operation on the part of interested nations. The first is the provision of effective international systems for co-ordinating and standardising the collection, processing and dissemination of scientific data. The second is the promotion, planning and co-ordination of major projects of research and exploration which, by virtue of their scale, cost and complexity, require the pooling of resources and facilities. Investigation and monitoring of ocean circulation, the inter-action between ocean and atmosphere, the influence of long range trends in the marine environment and the productivity of fish resources are examples of such projects. The third is the provision of the best available scientific advice to organisations responsible for the national utilisation and management of marine resources or the safeguarding of the marine environment from pollution The fourth area is the facilitation of the exchange of ideas and techniques between marine scientists and technologists of all countries. 
We in Australia are no different from the rest of the world. We are witnessing the expansion of the problem of pollution. lt is spreading like a cancer. There are 25 suburbs in my electorate of Griffith on the south side of the Brisbane River. Bulimba Creek is located in that electorate. On my recent trip overseas 1 made a study of the pollution problems in Chicago. I came back to Australia convinced that if the Americans think they have pollution problems then they should have a look al Bulimba Creek in my electorate. About 18 years ago. when I was a very young boy, I used to go fishing in the Brisbane River at West End, which is also in my electorate. I went to Davies Park, which is now the home ground of the Southern Suburbs Rugby League Club. 
-It is. We used to go fishing there after school and at the weekends. We could always be sum of bringing home 8 or 9 perch. But now, in the 1970s, 1 would not consider throwing anything into the Brisbane River for fear of being charged with polluting the water I would nol be able to catch anything, anyway. 
The Institute of Marine Science will investigate not only what can be done in the waters of the Great Barrier Kee!', lt will concern itself also with our rivers where pollution by mankind is contributing to the despoliation of our environment. Areas of research that this institute can cover in years to come are almost boundless. I hope thai the Opposition will support this Bill with the same enthusiasm that was displayed by the Prime Minister when he introduced the proposal last year. 
There is a long history of international co-operation in marine research. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. an inter-governmental organisation, was set up as far back as 1902 to encourage research in connection with the exploration of the sea and the co-ordination of the research activities of participating governments. In parallel there has been much non-governmental co-operation through the International Council of Scientific Unions and ils constituent unions and numerous disciples, and more recently, in the field of basic oceanography, by the Council of the Scientific Committee on Oceanic Research. Since the last war specialist intergovernmental organisations of the United Nations have assumed an important role in marine research, especially the Food and Agricultural Organisation and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation, and also the World Meteorological Organisation. 
In this day and age when the population in certain countries is trebling, man most certainly is headed for definite destruction unless he makes some contribution towards ensuring that the seas continue to produce food. We must consider particularly the areas of Asia. One only has to visit Hong Kong and similar areas to realise what great reliance people place upon the sea continuing to provide food. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is in charge of the passage of this Bill, is present in the chamber and I hope he will take note not only of my remarks but those of the learned bodies throughout the world who have considered marine science at great length. 
The production of fish is important also to Australia. In the last couple of years we witnessed the controversy surrounding the prawning industry in the Gulf of Carpentaria and the trouble caused by the arrival in that area of ships from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I believe that the sea has food enough for each and every one of us; but we cannot continue to go in with the big nets, just swoop away the fish, and hope that they will replace themselves. We must, in some tangible way, make some contribution to finding out which is the best time to take fish so as to ensure that there will be plenty left to continue the process of breeding and thus make food available for all mankind. 
One indication of the recent world interest in this field is provided by a United Nations Resolution on the Resources of the Sea which was adopted in December 1966. It called on the Secretary-General to prepare a survey of the present state of knowledge of the resources of the sea and of activities in marine science and technology, and to formulate proposals for an expanded programme of international cooperation to assist in a better understanding of the marine environment through science and in the exploitation and development of marine resources with due regard to the conservation of fish stocks. That is the point I am making. The survey and the proposals have now been published. I wonder how many Australians in 1970 have actually read this report. I wonder how many people connected with the fishing industry have had the interest to find out what is behind it. I wonder whether the fishermen, the wealthy boat owners and owners of fleets of ships have ever had the interest themselves or whether they have just looked at it in pure, hard economic terms and have gone out to reap the fish from the sea and if the fish have not been there in the following year they have moved to some other area. I hope with great sincerity that this organisation will provide as much information as possible, not only for the scientists of the world and the scientists of Australia but also for the people connected with these industries. 
I mentioned earlier the importance of tourism. I believe that there is great opportunity here for the Minister for Education and Science to discuss with the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities  (Senator Wright)  the best way that the new Institute can be exploited from the tourists' point of view. My friend, the honourable member for Herbert, who was very much instrumental in having the Institute situated in Queensland and who worked closely with the Prime Minister, has told me only tonight that the Interim Council which has been appointed has already been to the city of Townsville looking at some possible sites. I hope that the architects who design the building can embody the principle of letting John Citizen see what is being done. Far too many of our centres of science and centres of learning are closed to the average citizen. Through his taxation he provides the money to build them. The scientists go to work and no-one ever knows what is going on behind those walls. But if we are to get maximum co-operation from the people involved in eliminating or lessening pollution, it is up to us to make provision for people to see for themselves. What a great opportunity we have here now at the beginning to do something with this Institute in Townsville so that tourists from Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia, Tasmania and even Western Australia who flock to my home State of Queensland when winter arrives and also during the summers can go up there to north Queensland and see exactly what is being done. Thus promotion of what was being done in this particular field would be facilitated. As I said earlier, a lot can be done. 
Scotland has the seaweed industry worth about $2m a year. Fish and shell fish should be cultivated. Just 3 weeks ago a little north of Brisbane dozens of acres ot oysters suddenly became useless. This is a field where the Institute could go to work. I mentioned oil pollution and sewage pollution. One could once catch perch in the Brisbane River,  f  do hope that the Minister will bear these things in mind. I support the morion with great pleasure and I know that my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  is about lo speak. During my speech the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  came in and whispered a few things in his ear. I am quite certain that my friend is quite able to present a speech on this subject without outside interference and assistance. 1 know that he, as a Queenslander, will share-joy with honourable members on this side of the House in the fact that the Institute is to be built in Queensland, our home Slate. 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the report in which  Mrs Margaret  Berman, a woman connected with the Victorian abortion inquiry, claims that the tape recording that I have referred to now on 3 occasions in the last fortnight was made after her first visit to the office of the Victorian Solicitor-General? Does the Minister agree with me that it appears that the Victorian Solicitor-General was an accessory to or promoted a breach of the Commonwealth Post and Telegraph Act? 
Will the Minister ensure that an investigation is begun and that if my contentions are proved to be correct summonses will be issued immediately without fear or favour? 
I ask the 
Prime Minister: Is he aware that the Queensland Bar Association has offered to provide 35 barristers to appear before the Barrier Reef royal commission on a voluntary basis for 1 week each on behalf of the conservationists? Will the Prime Minister give consideration to approaching the Queensland State Government to ascertain whether or not a scheme can be devised whereby the Commonwealth and State Governments jointly can give financial assistance and thus enable people from conservation bodies to have effective continuous legal representation by persons closely acquainted with the case? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labor and National Service. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the long overdue success of the glamorous airline hostesses association in their claim for higher wages? Is the Minister aware that Ansett Airlines of Australia has been willing to meet these claims for some time and that TransAustralia Airlines forced the girls to the brink of strike action? Bearing in mind that in recent months the industry has given in like a lamb to every whim of the pilots, whether reasonable or unreasonable, will the Minister do his best to ensure that Ansett Airlines of Australia and TAA adopt industrial attitudes of the type we expect the rest of the community to live under - fairness and firmness? 
I ask the 
Minister for External Affairs: Has his attention been drawn to the claims in Adelaide by a  Dr Robertson  that there seems to be a correlation between earthquakes and atomic explosions? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report that traces of radioactive fallout from the French Government's recent nuclear tests have now appeared in New Zealand? Will the Minister restate to the French Government our protest and our complete opposition to the continuance of nuclear tests in our part of the world? 
Yes. The honourable member for Barton suggested that I should have been on the other side of the House during the division. The point is that I sat here until 3.30 this morning waiting to speak on this Bill and that I sat here all this morning when the House resumed and until 12 minutes past 2, but unfortunately the Leader of the Opposition spoke until the time allotted for the debate had expired and did not give me an opportunity to speak. 
We have sat here tonight and witnessed opposition by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  I remind the House - particularly the honourable member for Bradfield - that on one or two occasions he has not even waited for the weekend to come before going home and when various legislative matters with which he has disagreed have been introduced we have seen him walk out of the chamber before a vote has been taken. 
The honourable member says that he will do so again, yet he is complaining about people going home for the weekend. Another matter which people seem to have forgotten very quickly relates to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who very early tonight was making comments about the Parliament and the way it should work. I think it is very appropriate to remind the House that the honourable member, with all due credit to him, obtained his degree in economics during the hours that Parliament was sitting. In those earlier years when he had a somewhat shaky seat he applied himself diligently to his electorate. But now that the boundaries, through redistribution, have given him a favourable seat he can see everything wrong with honourable members wishing to work in their constituencies. I realise that the time is passing very quickly and in any case I can see no reason why this debate has been prolonged to this hour, but I must say that contact with the people in one's electorate means a lot. lt enables honourable members to come to this place ably representing the views of the people. 
Tonight's debate has, to a degree, been free from political tones. On occasions there has been political undercurrent. I am able and free, as a member of the Liberal Party, to use much more discretion in the casting of my vote than honourable members opposite can. I am always pleased to come here with full knowledge of how the constituents of my electorate feel on a particular subject. The views put forward by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  are the views of men who have been here for a long time. They think that what went yesterday is good enough for today. Perhaps this type of policy characterises all their contributions to the Parliament. It is appropriate to remind honourable members that, comparing the session that has just passed with the session of last year, we have sat for over 100 hours more than we did in the corre sponding period 12 months ago. There has been a need to discuss further legislation and more Bills have been introduced. I hope that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  at 11.27 p.m. will see fit to call it quits for tonight to avoid many of the things honourable members have been complaining about, such as staying up late, and set a good example on the second night of the parliamentary sitting, because everyone has made up his mind anyway. 
1 had intended to let all the remarks made tonight pass because many of them are inaccurate. But the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has made one or two comments that are so grossly inaccurate that the Hansard record should not be allowed to carry them unchallenged. Firstly, 1 take this opportunity to remind him that it is in the interests of the government of the day itself to field a quorum. We have beard in this chamber tonight how the Opposition Whip has stood outside the chamber - I have even seen him do this - and said: 'Go back, boys. Get the members of the Government parties in. This is only a call for a quorum.' This has been a tactic of frustration. At times members of the Government parties have been hurting certain members of the Opposition who have resorted to this tactic in order to sit the members of the Government parties down, to shut them- up and to reduce the time available to them. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in particular have used this tactic to effect in years gone by. 
I am one who over the years has become imbued with some of the ideals of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  in relation to the Parliament and what it stands for. But I still believe that the quorum provision has been abused and breached so blatantly in the past that it is high time we looked at it closely and considered whether we are here just to annoy each other and play politics by asking the Chair to form a quorum at any time or to get on with the business of the Parliament. My friend the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  whose electorate adjoins mine in Brisbane, has carefully and clearly made the point that this quorum business has iittle to do with government today. 1 know that quite a number of the new members of the Opposition, who have come here with perfectly clear minds in relation to parliamentary procedure, although their politics might be a little muddy, see that it is time we had change. As I said last night, I hope that we will not fritter the night away talking about these matters when, If we took a vote now, the numbers would be clearly in favour of this proposed change and we could then get home to bed and arrive here bright tomorrow morning. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and in doing so make reference to the letter he wrote to me some days ago informing me that he would not be prosecuting  Mrs Margaret  Berman firstly because of her health and secondly because of the protection afforded her by the Victorian Evidence Act. Am I correct in assuming that certain sections of the Commonwealth's Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act 1960-66 are not worth the paper they are written on and that the State Government can make the existence of this Parliament farcical? Will the Minister spell out to the 
House the circumstances under which my fellow countrymen can have a free hand in eroding once hallowed privacy or alternatively will he tell the nation and the State Government that he is not going to tolerate a repetition of the Penridge case in north Queensland or the Berman case in Victoria unless it is a matter of national security? 
We have just listened to a rather varied contribution from the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett).  Listening to the debate in this House tonight one would think that  Mr Hawke  had written the speeches that all honourable members opposite are reading. Two or three times during their speeches they all paid allegiance to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We recall that only a couple of days ago a national catastrophe occurred. The ACTU was behind a so-called national strike and protest against this Budget which is presently being debated. It was a big fizz, a big flop, lt was drawn to my attention that earlier in the piece this strike was proposed as a protest against the Government's taxation measures. Then, lo and behold, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in honouring the promise he made in his 1969 policy speech took the wind out of the sails of the ACTU and the Australian Labor Party by introducing taxation measures of an even more generous nature than those which he had promised. 
So what did the ACTU do? It turned on the strike as a big act of sympathy for the pensioners because the machinery was already under way for this big strike. But it had lost its cause. So out of shallowness it looked to the pensioners and said: 'They will do. All out.' That is the history of last Tuesday's strike. I think things are getting into a pretty poor state when we see the ACTU working in close liaison with the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on such an occasion of industrial unrest. We recall his remarks on Tuesday when he said there were telephone conversations between himself and  Mr Hawke  trying to motivate this industrial strike and obtain political reactions. This is a rather sad time. 
I recall the days of  Mr Chifley  years ago. He was a man so many honourable members of the Opposition respect and a man for whom I have respect. He is the man they look to so often and say: 'Remember Old Chif.' Let us remember Old Chif and let us hear what he had to say on industrial problems. Firstly, he said: 
If Communists, or any other members of the community, engage in subversive activities, illegal activities, activities calculated to  destory  order and good government, they will be dealt with in accordance with the law. 
He also said: 
The Communist Party is endeavouring to destory the arbitration system which is a foremost plank of Labor policy. 
Oh, for those days of old Chif, oh for those days of responsibility. Twenty years out of office has turned the Australian Labor Party, the Opposition Party, into a snarling creature resorting to any means to whip up the masses and attain office. 1 refer to the situation in Australia today. We have heard very many comments from members of the Opposition to the effect that this nation is going backwards, that we are on Skid Row and that people everywhere are crying out for a change in government because of the economic chaos which has supposedly existed under Liberal Party-Country Party governments. During the 20-year period from 1949 to 1969, the registered unemployment rate in Australia has not exceeded 3.1%. Over the last 6 years to 7 years the registered unemployment rate has never moved outside the range of 0.9% to 1.4%, seasonal influences apart. In the past 15 years industrialised countries like the United States of America, Italy, Canada, France and the United Kingdom have had a much less favourable employment experience than Australia. Even so, no reason exists to be complacent about the present levels of employment or inflation in Australia. 
Any persistent inflationary price trends of the sort experienced sometimes in Australia has socially undesirable effects which the Government is bound to try to minimise. By international standards, Australia has been more successful than most other countries in achieving rapid growth while keeping inflation and the balance of payments position under reasonable control. Australia has maintained a vigorous economic growth. The gross national product at constant prices has increased at an average rate of 5% over the last 6 years and by more than 6% in each of the last 2 years. Last year we saw a record increase of nearly 3i% in the work force compared with approximately 3% in the year before and an average rate of increase of 2*% in the 1960s. 
This increase has occurred because of the rise in migration and the rate at which married women are entering the work force, in 1961 only 17.3% of married women were at work. In February of this year approximately 33% of married women were in our work force, [n spite of this fact, the high demand for labour caused the number of registered unemployed as a percentage of the labour force to fall from 1.07% to 0.9% in the 12 months to June 1970. The Australian labour force is projected to increase from 5.1 million in the base year 1968 to 5.6 million in 1971 and to 7.2 million by June 1981. This projection is based on the assumption that the rate of net migration during this period  will be 1%  per annum of the population. An alternative projection, based on a net migration rate of 0.75% per annum, is shown as yielding in June 1981 a result lower by 0.3 million, f should indicate to honourable members that these figures are taken from a publication recently produced under the auspices of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden). 
The low level of unemployment in what is virtually a full employment economy has created a situation in which the trade union movement can hold the gun at the employers' heads. I for one state here and now for the sake of the record that I am not opposed to the worker resorting to strike action in support of a just cause. But I wonder whether or not our definition of what is a just cause is being eroded by examples of irresponsible unionism. I recently spoke to the managing director of a national company. I asked him: 'Why in the world do you give in  every time you  are tested? Why do you not take a stand?' His simple answer was: 'We have to. It would break us financially to take a stand'. This is an indication of how at times unions make gains for the members of their organisations at the expense of the general community. 
There is no doubt that irresponsible increases or gains obtained by this method break down the general economic situation in which each and every Australian has to live. I refer to Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. This Government has an interest in those 2 companies. Every time that the pilots threaten a strike their request is met immediately. There is no question about it. The air hostesses only recently won their increase, after many years without an increase, after they had threatened strike action. Where a cause is just 1 believe that employers have a responsibility to meet that cause. But where a cause is unjust they have an equal responsibility to take a firm stand. It is no use employers complaining that the unions are getting the better of them if they are not prepared to stand firm. We all realise that just as members of Parliament have to face elections so do union officials. By displaying to their members their ability to win better wages and conditions they ensure their re-election. But there again the companies must make the stand when they feel that it is an unjust strike or an unjust threat. 
When we recapitulate on the remarks of the last few minutes it is well to recall the words of the late Ben Chifley. I wonder where the Labor Party which Ben Chifley led is today. I wonder where it has been for the last 20 years? In well over 50 years it has won only 3 Federal elections and it has contested the last 9 Federal elections in a row without success. The other night my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  drew the attention of the House to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition feels he is within an ace of victory. Within the last few years two other Labor leaders felt they were within an ace of victory but the Australian people have not been hoodwinked by some of the catchcries and the irresponsible attitudes of those who back the ALP. We see the Leader of the Opposition working so closely with those he described only one or two years ago as the witless men. But now those witless mea have the Leader of the Opposition well in hand. 
I return again to industrial chaos and to the rapid increase in wages. Who suffers the most? It is the pensioner. Tonight we have heard honourable members opposite condemning the Government for granting certain increases and for its treatment of the pensioners. But every time that a union wins an unjust increase it is the little man and the pensioners who get screwed right into the ground. 
I refer to social services. This year we have seen an increase in the social service allotment of $157m which brings the total expenditure in this area to $l,820m. Earlier tonight we heard a speech by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme).  I intend to disagree slightly, in a very kind way, with him. We heard him refer to the added benefits which the pensioner today receives. If my memory serves me correctly he said that for a married couple the added benefit of the pensioner services, with cut television rates and a number of other things, would be worth $5.50 a week and $3.10 a week for a single pensioner. I draw the Government's attention to the fact that if we combine these benefits and the pension paid today and consider as a percentage of average weekly earnings, in the case of a single pensioner it is only 23%. Shortly after the Government came to office the percentage was 24%. In the case of a married couple the figure, taking into account the benefits which the Minister mentioned - and we must remember that 1 speak only of the average pensioner and this does not apply in every case - is $16.50 each which comes to 20.4% of average weekly earnings - again compared to 24%. 
T do believe that we on the Government side have a definite responsibility to ensure that the position of the pensioners is maintained and not eroded because they are the people who have no-one else to turn to but the Government. I am not referring now to those who have a part pension and who are also in receipt of superannuation benefits. I am speaking about those people who depend entirely upon their weekly pension payments. 1 hope that the Government in framing the next Budget will bear these facts in mind because we cannot afford to allow these people to continue feeing worse off. 
I shall refer now to defence. If I were to use the word 'briefly' I would be following the example of the Leader of the Opposition. He spoke the other day on the basis of having unlimited time. He could speak for as long as he wished and he chose to speak for some 64 minutes. At the 53rd minute he set aside 1 minute 12 seconds to the subject of this nation's defence. Yet here we have under the heading of defence a total expenditure of $1,1 37m out of a total Budget of $7,883m. 
The honourable member for Boothby says it was 48 seconds but perhaps as he comes from South Australia his time may have been half an hour behind mine. I thought it was 1 minute 12 seconds. Nevertheless, putting all this to one side, one has only to pick up this wonder book, the manifesto of the Australian Labor Party, the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules of the ALP' as approved by the 28th Commonwealth Conference. 
The honourable member for Wills, one of the greatest stirrers in this nation, says it is very good. The Leader of the Opposition, the alternative Prime Minister, was prepared to devote only some 70 seconds to this important subject, and this is very much in keeping with his Party's policy. If we look at the Platform of the ALP we will see that there are some 29 issues. Defence is No. 23 and Foreign Affairs No. 24. If we look at the resolutions adopted by the 1969 ALP conference we see that the subject of Vietnam is No. 55 and Defence Forces No. 56 out of a total of 61. 
So much for the ALP's care for the defence of this nation. In the mind of a great man on the other side it is a matter of: 'get it over with as quickly as possible. It is an unpleasant moment in the last 10 minutes of my speech, so if I devote 1 minute 12 seconds to this aspect I am doing well and I am in keeping with the full requirements of my Party, the Party that only a few years ago I tried to change so completely. But today I realise that if I am to get on in my Party T have to sell my soul and become part of the witless group.' This is a fact and it explains so clearly the attitude of the ALP today. The ALP rings up  Mr Hawke  every time it is going to do something these days because it recognises its true master. 
I might say that defence was lucky to even get a mention by the Leader of the Opposition because it must have been a most difficult and unpleasant moment when he had to face this reality, the defence of this nation. Without a strong defence and without our allies we may as well forget about everybody - let alone the pensioners - because there will be no Australia to look after. 
I turn now to the subject of taxation, the greatest disappointment for the ALP because the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  very carefully and very quietly in one Budget kept a promise on a matter which the ALP thought it could beat as a big drum and use to the maximum as a political issue. The Leader of the Opposition said during his remarks in this debate that in 1954 the average worker worked for 5 weeks to pay his tax whereas today he works for  9i  weeks to pay his tax. I have no reason to doubt the truth of that statement, but there is an important point to which we should give consideration. I refer to the advances which have been made under this Liberal-Country Party Government since 1954. I shall not even return to 1949 because the Leader of the Opposition chose 1954 as the base year. I shall use that year and mention some of the improvements which have been introduced. 
Through specific purpose payments of a revenue nature we have entered the university field and have increased our payments from $8m in 1954 to $57m now. We have entered the field of colleges of advanced education, made research grants, given assistance to independent schools, tuberculosis hospitals, blood transfusion services, housekeeper services, home care services, senior citizens centres, paramedical services, and to deserted wives and have provided for Aboriginal advancement. With specific purpose payments of a capital nature we have provided finance for teachers colleges, pre-school teachers colleges, science laboratories, technical training, school libraries, senior citizens centres, nursing homes and dwellings for aged pensioners. I could go on and on to men tion other areas of assistance, f refer to social services and supplementary assistance to aged and invalid pensioners. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I ask the honourable member to resume his seat for a moment. I remind honourable members that interjections are definitely out of order. Honourable members are asked to obey the Standing Orders. The honourable member for Griffith is entitled to be heard in silence. 
-It is a pity that honourable members do not decide to listen because they have sat on the Opposition side of the chamber for so long that they have forgotten so much. I have mentioned some of the things that have been introduced by this Government, There has  been  supplementary assistance for widowed pensioners, sheltered employment allowances, funeral benefits and so many other benefits. One could spend the full 30 minutes, allotted to each member in this debate, speaking on the subject of what this Government has done. But I. for one, do not believe that any Government can go to the people and talk about what it did yesterday; the important thing is what the Government is doing today and what it intends to do tomorrow. The point I am making is that even if the average person's contribution to taxation has increased over the last 15 years or so, this has been because government services also have increased. It is a fact of life, no matter what the Opposition promises at Budget time each year, that no matter what a government promises, it is the people of the nation who have to provide the money. I know that the Opposition - says that it will nationalise the banking industry, the shipping industry- 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that the Opposition does not say that, yet the report of the 28th Commonwealth Conference of the Australian Labor Party says at page 10 under 'Methods' that the nationalisation of banking, credit and insurance, monopolies, shipping and sugar refineries is part of the policy of the ALP, yet honourable members opposite jump and squirm like worms in a can when I mention this to the Australian public. No wonder it is so difficult to buy this book. It is because the ALP does not want people to know that this is its policy. 
J would say, let the worm wiggle if it fits in the hole. I now ask the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  for leave to incorporate in Hansard a short table which I have prepared. With the concurrence of honourable members 1 now incorporate in Hansard a table relating to income tax. 

<graphic href="069131197008274_89_5.jpg"></graphic>

For the purpose of this exercise I took the States of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. Honourable members will recall that only a couple of nights ago the 
Leader of the Opposition referred to the fact that only 30% of the people of Australia would benefit from the taxation cuts which were announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  a few days earlier. 1 have gone to some trouble to work out the number of taxpayers who receive less than $10,000 a year. The Leader of the Opposition said that 70% of the taxpayers would be worse off. He referred also to the giving of thousands of dollars to those people who earn over $10,000. Only 1.4% of the taxpayers in my own State of Queensland earn more than $10,000 and only 1.35% of the taxpayers in New South Wales and 1.45% of the taxpayers in Victoria earn over $10,000. In other words, as the table shows, 98.6% of the taxpayers in Queensland earn less than $10,000 a year; 97.65% of the taxpayers in New South Wales and 98.55% of the taxpayers in Victoria earn less than $10,000. The Leader of the Opposition placed great emphasis on the benefits which would accrue to the taxpayers in the $32,000 a year bracket. This table indicates that his remarks are comparatively meaningless because there are very few people in that bracket. Honourable members should remember that the percentage reduction in taxation becomes lower as one moves from the $1.0,000 bracket towards the $32,000 bracket. Reference has been made to elimination of the means test. The fact is that the great bulk of taxpayers earn less than $10,000 a year. 
Having taken the eastern States of the mainland as an example, I am a little concerned about the fact that 98.6% of the population of Queensland earns less than $10,000 compared to 97.65% of the population of New South Wales and 98.55% of the population of Victoria. Even though the difference is only small, I think that this is an indication of the fact that more people in Queensland are attempting to live on a lower income. I hope that the Government will continue to give consideration to the needs of Queensland because I know that the platform of the Liberal Party of Australia states that it believes in a system whereby there is no inequality in a State and that no matter where a person lives within Australia he should share the same economic standing as a person in another part of Australia. Apparently this is not the situation at present. I notice that the Treasurer is nodding his head in acknowledgment of the fact that 1 have just stated. I hope he takes the matter to heart and remembers it when he is making his next allocation. 
Unfortunately, time is fast running out on me. There are a number of other subjects 1 would like to discuss. 1 shall have to discuss them in the future. However, one thing which has left me rather disappointed is the fact that for just over a year 1 have fought with the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - although he is a friend - for a better deal for widowers with children. 1 will not let this opportunity pass without mentioning once again their plight. 1 also think that families in which twins and triplets are born should be given a better deal. J think some adjustment should be made to the maternity allowance. 1 am tired of talking about this subject, but something should be done. 1 frankly admit that 1 am nol married and do not have any children. But 1 cannot accept the statement that it is just as cheap to have I baby as it is to have 2 or 3. 
In conclusion I make brief reference - the subject deserves more than brief reference - to the receipts duty, to which the Leader of the Opposition seemed to devote so much of his time in order that he might guin a political advantage. The truth is that there should be no question about this matter because if the Queensland Government carried out its earlier promise or undertaking it would compensate for the extra tax collected by taking tax off other areas. I have here a file that is just over an inch thick. In the last couple of months f have done a considerable amount of work on this subject. 
I have sorted out those items on which the State Government is still able to use its own discretion in the application of taxation and those items on which, under the receipts duty legislation, it will have to fall into line with the other States. For the other States there is no change; the status quo is maintained. But for my State of Queensland there is a change. The  Deputy  Premier has come out and said that Queensland cannot afford not to take advantage of this situation. I make a plea that he do something about it because the people of Queensland are carrying taxation that they have become used to and nobody looks forward to new taxation just to conform with the rest of Australia. 
I thank the House for listening so intently. 1 hope that the Treasurer will note carefully the points I have raised tonight, because they are just. Furthermore, 1 hope that the Opposition will take a very close look at itself because many of the things members of the Opposition say are so shallow and devoid of any true meaning. Any Opposition worth its salt has to repeat things every year. The Leader of the Opposition has said: 'We will do that and we will do this'. This is the fourth Budget debate at which I have been present, and I have heard those words repeated every time. But I know that the people of Australia will not be fooled, that they will realise that this country has advanced in the last 20 years under the Liberal-Country Party Government and that when we go to the people at the end of 1972 they will support us again. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the reported claim by the Queensland Minister for Justice that, in accord with the decision of the High Court of Australia in the Worthing case, when this House passes the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill that could lead to the successful establishment of floating brothels and casinos outside the control of the State police forces? ls this claim correct or is it just wishful or woolly thinking on the part of the Queensland Minister, whose electorate is situated along the Queensland shoreline? 
It is just 200 years since Captain Cook discovered Australia, 182 years since Captain Phillip came with the First Fleet, 69 years since federation, and 25 years since the late Ben Chifley became Prime Minister of Australia. I wish to speak tonight in support of a campaign by the Bathurst City Council to raise money for the purpose of purchasing the home of the late Labor Prime Minister for the purpose of making it a national memorial. This campaign has been given assistance by one or two of the Sydney newspapers. I might say that, having earlier this year been in the United States and seen how that country preserves the homes of some of its great sons and people of the past, I think it is rather shameful that when one of our great sons dies we in Australia cremate him and throw his ashes to the wind. If he happens to have been a parliamentarian his portrait might hang in King's Hall for a while and then it might fade into the back alleys of the Parliament. If he was a Governor-General he might also earn a position for a little while but after a time he is forgotten. 
I think that even though  Mr Chifley  as a Labor Prime Minister came from an area away from the great centres of population in Australia it should be a task of each and every Australian to make a contribution to ensure that his home is not lost because of lack of public support and public interest. The appeal began some weeks ago. Remembering what I had seen in the United States, 1 waited for some weeks before I wrote to the Bathurst City Council early in August to ask how successful the appeal had been. I was rather horrified to learn in a letter I received from the Town  Clerk  that up to that time the Council had received only about $2,600 and was worried that it might have to give consideration in the not too distant future to closing the appeal and refunding the money to the people who had made donations. 
The home is 30 feet long by 20 feet wide, and the land is 130 feet deep. The home stands on 14i perches, lt is made of brick and plaster, with just an iron roof. It was a present to the late Prime Minister from his wife's parents - the Mackenzies - in 1914. On the occasion of his marriage they lent the home to him and his wife, and in 1920 it was completely signed over. Until his death it was his only home. Until  Mrs Chifley's  death, when it was handed over to a companion of hers, it remained her only home. Upon the death of her companion it became the property of the Presbyterian Church. I am not too certain of what amount the Presbyterian Church is asking for this house; but I certainly hope that the Church will also give sympathetic consideration to assisting the appeal if it possibly can. I believe that it would be a living monument of shame to this nation if only $10,000 were needed to retain this residence and that amount could not be found. 
I hope that as we as a nation emerge and mature we will look back upon our great people and make every endeavour to retain some tangible evidence of their being here, instead of just hanging their portrait in King's Hall, or something like that. Surely in the decades to come our young people will look back at the history of this country. It may happen again, but they should remember that a simple manperhaps not so simple; a man with a very simple background, an engine drivercould become the Prime Minister of this nation.  His  home symbolises to each and every Australian the fact that this can be done in Australia, although it has not happened on many occasions. We owe it to ourselves to leave this monument standing. Each and every one of us should take an interest in this matter in order to ensure that the house does not crumble away through lack of attention by those who are left in this country. 
 In following the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  in the debate tonight I must say that having heard the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  support the Minister for Social" Services  (Mr Wentworth)  I know instinctively that there is something wrong. I wonder how the electors of Grayndler would feel if they knew that their local member was here tonight advocating that the Hansard reporters, the Clerks of the House and all the attendants in the corridors should be placed in a position where they would have no meal break. The great union leader of the past is advocating a system whereby we do not even have meals. We heard the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  here tonight making a great plea for regularity yet he also advocates a system whereby we sit through meal breaks. I ask honourable members: If we are not to have regular meal hours how in the world can we have any hope of becoming regular? We have heard tonight a most forceful speech in favour of the retention of meal breaks, made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who was ably supported by the honourable member for Ryan. I wonder what those members who advocate this change think this Parliament is coming to and what they think the members who come here each week are coming to, because as far as I am concerned I do not come here just to speak to a Hansard reporter and an attendant outside the door. 
At least the honourable member for Adelaide is listening tonight. I hope he listens a lot more carefully because he might learn. The point is that when members speak in this Parliament, even though at times the House is only a quarter full, I think they are entitled to expect more of an audience than just some reporter who happens to miss his meal hour like the honourable member who has been rostered to speak. The average person thinks that this is just a gas house where people say a lot of hot words without any meaning. 1 believe that if the public were to come here between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., between 12 noon and 1 p.m., or between I p.m. and 2 p.m. - whatever hours it is advocated we should sit through - they would be even more dismayed when they looked down from the galleries and saw just the honourable member for Grayndler and the Minister for Social Services speaking to each other through the public address system, because this is not what the Parliament is meant to be. I believe that some of those members who are advocating this change are themselves striking a blow against what the institution of Parliament stands for. At most times I do not go all the way with the honourable member for Bradfield, but on this business of upholding the dignity of the Parliament I am with him all the way. I have a book here written by Edgar Holt titled 'Politics Is People' and the part I wish to quote refers specifically to the late right honourable William Morris Hughes. On page 19 it states: 
His mind was so much the master that it dominated, decade after decade, a tiny frame and a body tormented by dyspepsia. Early days of struggle and the stark battle to eat ruined his digestion. Thereafter he ate to live. Food was never a delight. There were times when he went for days without being able to take more than a morsel.  1 know that the honourable member for Grayndler could possibly go for a long time without taking more than a morsel. However there are a number of honourable members who desire to maintain civilised eating habits. They do not wish to work in an institution - perhaps the only institution in this nation other than power stations or gas stations - that keeps going for 24 hours a day. 
The new proposal is that we reduce the times allowed for speeches. I think this is a good thing. There has been a further amendment along those lines. We have seen the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  representing the Opposition, make great speeches lasting 30 or 40 minutes to an enthralled crowd in the Parliament. If some of those speeches were reduced more speeches could be made. We have seen honourable members, such as the honourable member for Grayndler, watching the clock, knowing that by speaking for 30 minutes they can frustrate the Government. They are not prepared to cut 1 minute from their time because they want to hold the Government to a tight schedule. A reduction in the time allowed for members to speak will, in the long term, lend itself to better speeches being made. Speeches of quality will be made and we will have more time to do many other things. 
The main point of my argument tonight relates to the sitting hours. Like many other honourable members present 1 travel from further away than Sydney or Melbourne to attend the parliamentary sittings. As far as I am concerned, this business of racing home on Friday night and then jumping back on to a plane on Monday morning or Tuesday morning, as happens now, is just so silly that it is absolutely incredible. The Parliament has voted for a change in the days of sitting. Let us not lose sight of what honourable members have advocated. It has been advocated that we sit on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday so that members who have to travel to far away places can remain in Canberra, catch up with their committee work and make a better use of the 8 or 10 days out of every 3 weeks in which we sit. Under the present system some honourable members spend as much as 8 hours up in the air trying to return to their homes. 
All of us know of the silly situation in winter time in Canberra. Our great fathers suggested that Canberra should be the place for the capital city. However, fogs hang over this city for many hours and we go round and round in Electra aircraft waiting for a break in the fog in order to land. I can assure honourable members that I have better ways of spending my life than going round and round in an aeroplane while strapped in a seat. If I am to do anything in this Parliament then I must have my feet on the ground, as they are now. I have to be in this chamber, working in my office or working on a committee. 
If we have to be here for the weekends then surely it is sensible to change the sitting from Monday afternoons and sit on Monday mornings. Otherwise why are we going to stay here over the weekends? Of course I am referring only to those honourable members who come from places further distant than Sydney or Melbourne. Do we have to sit here waiting for those who live nearby to make their way, gently and quietly, back to the national capital after spending their weekend at home, at Bondi or Queenscliff beaches? Perhaps the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  who comes from somewhere in the Melbourne area, might even spend his weekends by the side of a swimming pool. 
If I am to be here in Canberra at the weekends then I want this place to get cracking again early on the Monday morning. I am not going to sit here and wait for those honourable members to make their way back to Parliament. I am sure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I have the support of the majority of honourable members who are thinkers, who put aside selfish motives and who think principally of the benefits to the Parliament. I also am a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Tuesday mornings should be left free so that committees can sit. The Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  took notice of the suggestion about leaving Tuesday mornings free and foreshadowed that as an amendment. 
I suggest that honourable members throw the suggested arrangements out. Let us look at things in perspective. We do not want to tie ourselves for the next couple of years to a parliamentary system which we will regret within 2 months. Let us use this occasion when we have an individual vote to good advantage. I urge honourable members to throw aside Party loyalty and the idea of getting indigestion as a result of sitting through meal hours. The suggestion of sitting during meal hours is the one thing more than any other which would lead to the destruction of the image of this Parliament in the eyes of the people. 
I move: 
That the words, half-past two o'clock, p.m. be omitted with a view to inserting the words ten o'clock a.m. in place thereof. 
I made my explanation earlier. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce- Minister for oppose the motion. The commencing time on the Monday of the second week should in my view be 2.30p.m. in accordance with the other matters that have been decided. 
 I think it has been seconded. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of  Dr Cass's  amendment (3). 
This is opposing the amendment moved by the honourable member for Griffith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the words proposed to be inserted by amendment (3) be so inserted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the words proposed to be inserted by amendments (4) and (5) be so inserted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question, as amended, resolved  in the affirmative. 
-Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that the Australian Labor Party owned and controlled radio station 4KQ in Brisbane recently broadcast several paid National Service callup notices? Can the Minister tell the House whether other radio stations owned by the ALP are broadcasting callup notices for payment and whether I am correct in assuming that this is a classic example of how the ALP will sell out its socalled principles for cash- 
I speak this afternoon shortly after a speech was delivered by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I have not been here for some 24 years as he has, but I have been here some years. On many occasions I have heard him make an unkind reference to members who read their speeches. I am one who rarely reads a speech, but I think that the honourable member is a little unkind in his remarks because a great many of the people who come here have different abilities. It may be said that the honourable member for Mallee, in common with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  can rise to his feet and rattle off a speech without needing to read it. There are others who are not so blessed. Perhaps they have been blessed in other areas in which the 2 aforementioned members have not been blessed. This is just the way it goes. 
I agree that the standing of Parliament is detracted from because some honourable members are seen to read their speeches. There are some honourable members who have been here long enough and who are able enough that they should not need to read their speeches. However I think that the honourable member for Mallee was a little unkind because there are some honourable members who cannot deliver a speech without notes. 
I wish to take this opportunity in speaking on the estimates for the Parliament to push once again the cause for a more realistic approach to parliamentary life and the provision of opportunities for members to do their work properly. We are in the 1970s now. Earlier we heard the honourable member for Mallee talk about Alfred Deakin and mention the names of some other prominent persons who lived at the beginning of the century. Things have changed a lot since that time. I think that the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, which recently brought down its report, still lacks some of the foresight in respect of the provision of facilities which are so necessary to enable the members of this Parliament to work as effectively as they should be able to work. I notice in the report that, in very guarded terms, it is predicted that in time secretarial staff will be provided for members in the new Parliament House. The report says: 
There is every reason to believe that in dme additional assistance will be provided to members. 
In view of this, the Committee suggests that a room of IS ft by IS ft should be added to the office of each member. This is certainly a far cry from what we have today. I share an office here with a new member. 1 remember that, when 1 was a new member 3 years ago, I used to apologise to the man with whom. I shared an office because I must have distracted him by asking many questions as to how the Parliament worked. I think that every member is entitled, not in IS years or 20 years time but almost immediately - in the very near future - to the privacy of his own office. 
Even in Brisbane, in my home State of Queensland, where my office is in the Commonwealth building there, 1 work in a room that is 10 ft by 12 ft. Every time my secretary boils the jug. I have almost to leave the office or I will be scalded, as the room is so small. When people come into my office, and somebody wishes to walk out of it, that person must shift chairs in order to do so. This is the type of mentality which has been associated with the workings of Parliament. I think that this is a condemnation of those people who set the conditions under which we work. I do not know where they are. I do not know whether they are in the Government, are Ministers or are people at the top of the Department of the Interior. I think that this type of attitude is absolutely deplorable and, more shamefully, not only does this reflect the low regard in which these people hold members of Parliament but also it shows that they deserve condemnation because they have so much contempt for the democratic system under which this country works. 
In accord with my practice in past years, I do not intend to speak long on this subject, but I take this opportunity to say once again - and I always will - that it is high time the people who are responsible for providing and who could provide realistic facilities for members of Parliament did something about the present position and stopped hiding behind the cloak of reports such as the one to which I have referred and saying: 'Well, one day we will give members something'. What do I see when I look at conditions in my electorate? The tally clerk down at the fish depot at one end of my electorate has an office far bigger than mine. Whilst his job is important, obviously he would not have as much paper work in his office as I have. Unfortunately, most of the papers that people send to me each day must go into the rubbish bin because there Ls nowhere to store them.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  if you tried to fit 2 desks, a cupboard, a filing cabinet, chairs and a jug with which to make a cup of coffee into a room approximately J 2 ft by 1.0 ft, you would know just what I am talking about. 
Sitting suspended from S.S8  to  8 p.m. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
1 have, ls the Minister aware that the Australian Labor Party owned and controlled radio station 4KQ in Brisbane recently broadcast several paid national service call-up notices? Can the Minister tell the House whether other radio stations owned by the ALP are also broadcasting call-up notices for money? Has 4KQ or any other ALP controlled station discussed with his Department the possibility of altering the contents of the advertisement in order that such stations can continue receiving revenue for an advertisement which the Party alleges is so violently contrary to its policy? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence and I refer to the withdrawal of the 8th Battalion from Vietnam in the near future. Can the Minister tell the House whether the Government of South Vietnam has indicated what measures it intends to employ to ensure the continuance of security in the area that we are vacating? 
J thank honourable members opposite who have allowed me to speak before the suspension of the sitting this evening. I will keep my speech short. I want to make one or two comments on the Budget and the Bill before the House. J referred to pensions during my speech in the Budget debate, but I wish now to refer to one or two matters that honourable members opposite conveniently failed to mention. The first point is that we are a young nation and during this period of growth a great number of calls are made on our finances. I believe that every supporter of the Government would be satisfied if we were able to double expenditure on pensions, but the moment that that were done it would mean that money which would nor mally be allocated to education, national development and other requirements would not be available for those purposes. Pressure groups would form and the Opposition would scream about the money needed for education, national development and other fields. 
The point is that it is all right for an Opposition Party to say what should be done, but it is the Government's responsibility to ensure that money is allocated in the correct order of priorities. It is interesting to note that since 1949, when this Government came to power- 
The honourable member asks about the Fill. I am quite sure that if the Labor Party was in power it would be more than happy to scrap all expenditure in the field of defence. That has been so often implied in the speeches of honourable members opposite. I was saying that expenditure on social services and health benefits and associated matters in 1949 amounted to $161 m. Today that expenditure has grown to $l,472m. This in itself is a tremendous increase. We realise that money is also spent in the field of repatriation and that the total amount of expenditure in the category of welfare is in the vicinity of $l,800m. That is quite a percentage of a total Budget of approximately $7,500m. 
Furthermore, the number of age and invalid pensioners in Australia has risen to 912,773. When their dependents and recipients of other forms of pensions are taken into calculation it is clear that they form quite a percentage of the nation's population. In accordance with my undertaking I will mention briefly that I have been a little disappointed in the last couple of years that the Government has not been able to respond to the situation of widower fathers and deserted fathers on limited incomes supporting families. The Government has not yet found itself able to give them financial assistance. I have spoken on this matter on many occasions. I have been assisted by one or two people in Brisbane in this respect. It was a Liberal who was the first member to raise this matter in the national Parliament. 
I know that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who recently visited Brisbane and spent some 3 hours just outside my electorate with a number of men who are in this category, is very sympathetic. 1 hope that he will not lessen his determination to see that justice is done in this area. in my first year in this Parliament in 1967 I commenced a crusade to increase the maternity allowance. I am now almost sick and tired of raising this matter. The raising of the maternity allowance would involve the allocation of only a very small amount of money. The present Government contribution for a single child is $30. If a person is unlucky enough or lucky enough to have twins the payment is only $40: it is not doubled, If a person has triplets the payment is not trebled. So it is best to have 1 child at a time. I note that the Minister is acknowledging my plea; I hope that his action will go further than a mere acknowledgement. in conclusion I want to refer to the Aged Persons Homes Act, which comes within the category of social services. I pay a tribute to the drive of the Blue Nursing Service. Its old headquarters is situated in my electorate in Brisbane. That Service recently acquired the Panorama Hotel, which is quite a large building in the Brisbane suburb of Hill End. This building was acquired with Government assistance under the Aged Persons Homes Act and it will in the very near future be opened by the Minister for Social Services. The building will be able to accommodate about 60 or 70 aged people. I pay great tribute to the Director, the Reverend Gloster Udy. This home will on completion be one of the nation's most beautiful aged persons homes. It has been renamed Panorama Lodge'. The acquisition of this building should be an inspiration to charitable and church organisations to seize upon opportunities to acquire similar places. This building was bought with a Government subsidy of about two-thirds of the total cost. Some of the people who will live there will make a contribution to the purchase cost. I salute those responsible for their enterprise in this venture. In the last 16 years this Government has enabled and encouraged private organisations, including church organisations, to go out and with Government assistance enter upon similar ventures. I know that the Opposition believes that the Government should do this sort of thing on its own but this raises a difference in political philosophy - the difference between socialism and the promotion of free enterprise and initiative. 
As 1 said earlier, this speech will be a short one so as to enable the honourable member for Kalgoorlie an opportunity to speak before the dinner break. I say again to the Minister that it is high time something was done for the deserted fathers and for married couples who have more than one child at a time. 
May I compliment you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  on the manner in which you have handled proceedings during the last couple of minutes. On 11th September last year I asked the then Attorney-General a question about reciprocal legal aid rights for people living in the various States. At that time I referred briefly to the fact that in Queensland a person can be disqualified from receiving legal aid, even though he might qualify on the gounds of finance if the case is brought in another State. I refer particularly to a case in 1943, where the husband of a constituent of mine disappeared. She did not find him until 1968. I think honourable members will agree that is quite a long time to be gone. When her husband was found alive this woman realised that she had deserted him. When the husband became aware that his wife knew his whereabouts, he commenced divorce proceedings from Sydney against his wife on the ground of her desertion. Unfortunately, because of the present- system in Australia and particularly the system in my own home State, and because the woman of whom I speak is not wealthy, she had to sit by in Brisbane and watch this case go through the courts of New South Wales without being able to defend herself. 
I wrote to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  in December drawing the principle of this case to his attention and asked him what be intended to do about it. He explained that this matter was rather complex, I agree. He said it was not for him to tell the States how to enact their legislation. He also said that we in the Federal system could only sit by and hope that the States would see the need for change themselves. I believe that we as a Federal Parliament have some responsibility to see that these anomalies are removed. The previous Attorney-General stated last year that this subject would be discussed and he hoped that correcting legislation on the problems of the matrimonial jurisdiction would be drawn up. The present AttorneyGeneral has also said that he will give it consideration. With great respect I would take this opportunity during the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department to remind him of bis earlier undertaking and also to remind him of the undertaking given by his predecessor. 
I have developed a habit, when 1 receive a letter from a Minister saying that he will look at something, of not writing 'file', on it and putting it away forever. Some months later I look at it again objectively to see what has been done. I hope that the Attorney-General, in accordance with his practice of attending to these things readily and rapidly, will follow suit in this instance. But during this debate I would not - I do not think the Attorney-General would expect me to do so - let the opportunity pass to mention the use of bugging and eavesdropping devices and the inadequacy of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. It has been with some interest since, I think, about May 1967 that I have been pushing for reform in this area and I was very pleased to hear an answer given by the Attorney-General to a question by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the House on 28th August. He referred to problems in South Australia where officials of the Postmaster-General's Department were listening to telephone calls. The Attorney-General stated there and then that he , had undertaken an investigation with a view to considering whether it would be useful or appropriate to amend the legislation. 
I can tell him the answer now. Yes, it would be most useful because the legislation needs amending. Any Commonwealth legislation that can be made a laughing stock by State legislation should, I think, be amended. We had the situation in Victoria where  Mrs Margaret  Berman flouted the Commonwealth Act, taped telephone conversations and then set about using them in an inquiry. I believe that proceedings are now under way to bring to trial those who are involved, but when I raised this matter it was explained to me that she has been granted protection under the Victorian Evidence Act What a funny situation it is when we in the Commonwealth Parliament enact legislation and then the 
State governments come along in their merry way and introduce covering legislation that cancels out our intentions. 
Furthermore, some weeks ago I asked the Attorney-General - he might take the opportunity again at the end of this debate to give the House more details - a question about Alderman Penridge, the late Mayor of Cairns in Queensland who was successfully prosecuted for allegedly - and I mean allegedly, even though the court found him guilty - offering a bribe to somebody for the sale or purchase of a building for the Cairns City Council. In his answer the Attorney-General referred to the fact that it was a decision of his predecessor and he had no intention of canvassing the decision of his predecessor. I say that that is fair enough. I give him that point, but I would greatly appreciate it if later he would take the opportunity to explain carefully to the House in what situation either he or his predecessor could make a judgment as to whether or not the Commonwealth can act against those who flout its laws. This is apparently a discretionary power. If this is confirmed by the Attorney-General, I would not say it is dangerous, but it is wrong. 
We in the Federal Parliament make Acts and yet the State governments can apparently come along, have a little chat to their counterparts in the Commonwealth Parliament and say: 'Is it all right if we go ahead and prosecute X?' Unless the AttorneyGeneral corrects this latter, it would appear that certain people, including the Commonwealth Attorney-General, can just say yea or nay. They can say: 'We will not touch you,  Mr State  Attorney-General. You go ahead and prosecute and you will do it safely.' The point I am making is that unless it is a matter of national security we in the Commonwealth Parliament have no right to sit in judgment on whether a person has committed a felony in the States which is so bad as would allow the State Government to prosecute safely. The Queensland Government does not have an Evidence Act, in the same sense as the Victorian Government has, that would give protection to the citizen. I hope that later the Attorney-General will take the opportunity to explain this fully so that not onlyI but the people of Australia can be made more aware of what is going on. I know that the Australian people are becoming more aware of the need to ensure that the individual is protected. 
We are in the age of tape recorders. A piece can be cut from a tape and presented to a court as a comment or as a statement made by somebody but it may be changed completely. I do not think we should allow this to happen in this country. It has happened in other countries. It is rather interesting to recall that in Los Agneles at the beginning of this year a case was thrown out because a Supreme Court judge would not have anything to do with evidence that had been produced on a tape recorder. A statement was also made on this subject last year by the equivalent of a High Court judge in New Zealand. I look to the Attorney-General for complete leadership in this matter. He is showing leadership in the calm manner in which he is handling some other problems which tend at times to be emotional. I hope that he faces this problem with the same determination because I and, I am sure, quite a number of other people throughout the nation are looking to him for results. 
 Until today I had no intention of speaking during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation but a decision by Qantas Airways Ltd which was related to me yesterday has caused me, to say the least, to become extremely bitter, disappointed and disillusioned. Realising that words spoken in anger are often later regretted, I decided to sleep on it and see how I felt today. Usually with the passage of time one does not feel as strongly but in this case I feel even more resentful than I did yesterday. I am now on my feet because I believe an injustice is being perpetrated in the name of an instrument of the Australian Government. 
For some time now I have been the National President of the All Australia Karate Do Federation. As most honourable members would know, the art of karate is now being taught in Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland, and I might say, is a rapidly growing sport attracting some of the nation's finest young men and women to its ranks. Earlier this year Australia was invited to attend and participate in the first world championship tournament to be held in Tokyo and Osaka, Japan, next month. It was decided that Australia would send a team and, as Australian President, I was asked to lead the team. I accepted this great honour. Whilst the tournament is being organised by the Federation of All Japan Karate Do Organisations, it has the firm support of the Japanese Government in that the Japanese Ministry of Education, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Transport and the Metropolitan Government of Tokyo are assisting the Japanese body in the organisation of the world tournament. 
Honourable members will acknowledge that it is natural for an Australian team to turn to this nation's international airline to facilitate transportation. Qantas Airways Ltd, like most of the major airlines throughout the world, is a signatory to the International Air Transport Association Agreement, and, I believe, generally works within the framework of the Agreement. The Australian team is not receiving, nor has it asked for, a free handout to enable it to cover the fare to Tokyo and back. In other words, we are paying our own way out of our own pockets. The team comprises a representative from Victoria, 1 from New South Wales and, I might say with a degree of pride, being a Queenslander, 3 Queenslanders. The Queensland instructor, who is our team coach, and his wife, both being Japanese born, are accompanying the team and naturally taking advantage of the opportunity to visit their parents in Japan. With myself as National  President  leading the group, the party will comprise 8 members. 
The IATA Agreement carries no resolution to prevent an airline company indulging in what is known as a contra deal nor does it promote the concept. A contra deal is simply an agreement between the 2 parties whereby the carrier will give a specified discount on the total fare of a single person or a party of people if a guarantee is given that a similar value of publicity or services will be given to the carrier in return for the fare discount. The United States Federal Aviation Act of 1958 similarly requests carriers to charge exactly the fares set out in the published tariffs and I might add, in fairness of presentation, the American Civil Aeronautics Board 'or CAB' is not happy with contra deals, but it is a practice heavily employed throughout the world and legally so. In a contra contract it remains at the discretion of the airline company to determine the value of the services or publicity given in return for a fare discount and it is the practice that a contract is drawn up between the parties where guarantees are given. Being aware of this arrangement, as the Australian  President,  I approached a large newspaper company in Japan on 18th May, through their helpful Australian representative, seeking their assistance in this regard. Unfortunately, some weeks elapsed before it was definitely established that we in Australia could not exclusively undertake to guarantee sole publicity rights to that Japanese company. As a result of this, our negotiations did not come to fruition. But we still tried. 
At the beginning of this month, I approached a Brisbane daily newspaper and asked it whether it would provide coverage of the Australian team's participation in the world tournament to enable us to approach our - meaning Qantas - airline so that I might secure for the team a discount for its fares. I even said I would take personal responsibility for cabling our team's daily result back to Australia. The newspaper agreed to assist. The group fares paid by the members will be in the vicinity of $7,200 but in all fairness to  QantasI  am obliged to mention that we are flying Qantas from Australia to Manila and on the way home from Singapore to Australia, the fares being at economy class $292 and $242 respectively which, multiplied by 8, is close enough to $5,000. Qantas was unable to meet our schedule requirements for the rest of the trip. After many months of endeavour I at last had a supporter in a newspaper and even more pleasing, an 
Australian  company.  My reason for not going  to  an Australian company in the first place was because  it  was suggested that we could  be  successful with the aforementioned Japanese firm. On 10th September this year, with great optimism and faith that Australia's own airline company would do something for  an  Australian team, I formally wrote  to  Qantas, advising  it  of the departure coverage which had been promised and that  if  the newspaper concerned was unable to mention Qantas  in  its build-up articles, the Federation  in  Australia would place advertisements next to the articles to bring about the association which Qantas would require. 
I state  at  this stage that  in my  letter I said:  'I do  not - and  I  repeat  do  not - want this discount for myself. The intention was that the value of the discount would  be  divided among  the  team members. Yesterday Qantas advised me that it would not accede to our request. We were not asking for something that was illegal  or  has never been given - we were asking only for help  in  the same manner  it  has been given thousands of times before throughout the world  by  signatories to the IATA Agreement. I believe  it to  be  a  shameful condemnation of the spirit motivating this nation's airline when on one hand  it  gives trips away to some  of  the nation's better known people, yet refuses to support a team of young Australians having  to  pay their own way to represent our country. It's fitting that I recall the words of the  President of  IATA spoken  at  its 1966 meeting:   . . The member airlines of IATA that carried 91 per cent of the world's traffic numbering 177,000,000 passengers in 1965 above all practical purposes have a definite contribution to make to world peace by providing the most effective means of bringing together the peoples of the world . . . ' 
If I had known that Qantas would have adopted this attitude last May when I began mynegotiations,Iwould have had no hesitation, in the interests  of  the  members  of the team,  in  approaching another airline where we most certainly would have received  a  more favourable response  to  our request. Has Qantas reached the stage where  it  has to make its profits  by  preying on the national sentiment  of  Australians who naturally think of their nation's own airline when wishing to fly outside this country? 
When honourable members recall my earlier statements of the support from the Government of Japan, I feel even more ashamed of the attitude prevailing in my own country. I have established beyond doubt that Qantas could legally have given help, if only to the tune of $500 which, on the total fares, would have been approximately 6 per cent discount, which would have been repaid under our agreement; not a great price to pay to support a group of young Australians setting out in an attempt to place this nation's flag right at the top of the pole in an international circuit. I take this opportunity to warn every sporting body or other organisation planning to attend a contest away from our shores that this is the type of treatment you too might receive. Do not allow your national pride and affiliation to be the cause of unnecessary extra expenditure which, with a little foresight and knowledge, could have been saved. 
I recognise and respect Qantas's great reputation as a safe and reliable airline on which to fly. Like a number of other countries' airlines Qantas realises how important it is to have this attribute because it reflects on the airline's country of origin. May I also compliment the Brisbane staff of Qantas with whom I have dealt in the last few months. As always, they have been courteous and attentive. The decision I condemn today was one made in the company's head office and it is to there I direct my comments. I am as proud of my country and its achievements as anyone could be and I would hate to see Qantas acquire the reputation of being the world's most miserable airline, not perhaps in the eyes of the world, but in the eyes of Australians - those who finance the airline's very existence. The answer to that lies in the airline's own hands. I hope that these words will not go unheeded by the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation because, as I said earlier, it is a terrible condemnation of the attitude which has been adopted by Qantas. I know that the Minister is no longer the Minister for Civil Aviation but I hope that something is done in the very near future to correct this situation. 
 Because the debate is to be guillotined at 3.7 p.m. I will make my speech short in order to give the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  an opportunity to speak. I wish to raise here this afternoon the problem which has arisen out of the old battle of federalism and centralism, and I hope in raising this question I will not be branded a centralist but rather one who can see the weaknesses at times of the Federal system. The question I raise is one affecting the blue mud crab. The blue mud crab exists along a 250 mile stretch of the Australian coastline extending from about Yamba on the north coast of New South Wales to about 100 miles past the Queensland border. Over the years because of over-fishing and so on this crab has become almost non-existent. There has been a complete lack of conservation over the last 20 years. 
Unfortunately New South Wales - and I am being critical of the New South Wales Government at the moment - has never applied any restrictions whatsoever on the taking and sale of small, immature crabs or female crabs. While this lack of action has denuded the crab population in New South Wales it has also assisted in denuding a large area of the Queensland coast by allowing Queensland professional crabbers to send to the Sydney markets both undersized and female crabs, both of which it is illegal to take in Queensland. Of course, honourable members might say: Well, it is up to the Queensland Government to be even stricter in its enforcement of the taking of crabs'. But the point is that while there is such a good market for them in the south we will always have those people who are prepared to do things illegally to cash in on an opportunity. It is for this reason that I raise in the House the need for interstate co-operation. It is no good 1 State having laws to protect animals, fish, crabs and so on and the State next to it completely disregarding them. This in the long term leads to the extinction of the particular variety. 
Realising that time is short, but believing that brevity sometimes gets a point across, I will move on to the next subject. I notice that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is present today. In his previous portfolio he was also MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities and he now represents the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities  (Senator Wright)  in this place and he is very much aware of the importance of tourism. But as the Minister for Customs and Excise he and his predecessor have come under pressure from time to time to ensure that we relax the procedures for checking people as they arrived in Australia from overseas. I would hate to think that the Department of Customs and Excise and the Minister were working under political pressures and taking too much notice of the criticisms of the procedures by various organisations, particularly those associated only with the promotion of tourism. 
As a member of the Government Members Tourism Committee I recognise the great importance to this country of that industry. But whilst we read and hear at times of claims that countries all over the world are relaxing their procedures for allowing people to enter, in the last 3 or 4 years I feel that I have been around the world enough to be able to say that if they are relaxing they must have been pretty tough before because they are still very tough. I remember landing at San Antonio in the United States and one would think that I was a GI coming out of the marihuana fields of Vietnam. They took my word that I did not carry anything illegal but I stood by and watched every passenger being thoroughly searched. I know that a new system has been introduced where 1 out of 10 or 1 out of 6 passengers is searched. I hope that the Minister never loses sight the fact that it is the responsibility of himself and his Department to make sure that Australia is protected from people who make great fortunes by trading illegally in products such as marihuana and other undesirable commodities. 
All honourable members of this Committee realise fully that the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  at all times is sincere and is imbued with a sense of idealism. I must say that I compliment you,  Sir, for  your tolerance in allowing him to speak on such a wide range of topics in view of the fact that the Committee is discussing the estimates for the Department of Health. In view of this latitude, might I take this opportunity to say to the honourable member for Capricornia: Remember that it is not only the Communists who have never seen a Capitalist or the Capitalist who has never seen a Communist; remember very clearly the lessons of Hungary and Yugoslavia where the Communists turned on their own. So much for the contribution made to this debate on the estimates of the Department of Health by the honourable member for Capricornia. 
Looking at the estimates for the Department of Health we see that the estimated expenditure for 1970-71 has increased by $83,779,914 over the expenditure for 1969-70. Examining the details presented, we see that nearly half of this sum - $40m - is for the purpose of the increased allocations necessary to finance the new medical benefits scheme. I take this opportunity to congratulate once again the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  for the role that he has played in the implementation of this scheme. It was a most difficult proposition from the word 'go'. 1 believe that he has the admiration of members on both sides of the Committee, regardless of their political philosophy and regardless of whether or not they agree totally with the scheme, for the manner in which he has brought it about. 
The most important ingredient of all in the new medical health scheme is the need for the co-operation of doctors. All honourable members know that the scheme is based on the concept of a common fee. By this method the people of this country who have chosen to be members of the health scheme will never carry a burden of more than $5 in respect of each medical service. Already I am aware that a number of doctors, particularly doctors in Sydney, have failed to stick to this concept of a common fee. They themselves suggest that the proposals put by the Australian Labor Party on this matter represent a doctrine of socialism. 1 might suggest to them that, in their own way from a political point of view, if they refuse to assist this scheme to work they will bring about themselves a system of socialism. 1 am not going to suggest that the Liberal Party-Country Party coalition will suddenly introduce socialised medicine as we have seen it in Great Britain. But I do suggest that the patience of the Government can be tried only so far and that, if we do not have the co-operation - and the full co-operation - of the medical profession, this indeed will make it difficult for this Government to continue to operate this scheme which, in the long term, and compared with the proposals of the Labor Party, is by far more beneficial to the people than the scheme as suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  prior to the last election. 
It is fitting to recall on this occasion, particularly as I am a member representing a Queensland electorate, that it was the Leader of the Opposition who proposed a scheme during the last House of Representatives election which, if implemented, would have meant virtually the end of free medicine to the people of Queensland. Honourable members will recall that the proposals by the Australian Labor Party meant the imposition of a levy type charge on a person's earnings over a year  ;md  that if a man's wife was working she would be required to pay the levy too.- The present scheme in Queensland operates in this way. An individual has the right to choose to belong to a medical health scheme or, alternatively, an individual has the right to stay out and to take advantage of Queensland's free hospital scheme. What the Australian Labor Party proposed virtually would force every member of the community - and I underline the word force' - to make a contribution out of his or her weekly pay envelope towards the upkeep of Labor's health scheme. Honourable members who have done some research in this field and who have looked at the history of the British national health scheme and the way in which its costs rose so quickly over the years will have to admit that the figure given by the Leader of the Opposition as the cost of his scheme is only a very nebulous figure and that there can be no guarantee that the cost would be anything like the estimate df the Leader of the Opposition. The estimated expenditure from the national welfare fund for this year is $423m. The departmental vote itself has increased by about $10m. 
At this point I want to spend a moment in bringing to the House the views of the private sector which is the community in general. Though the Government calls for a tightening up of expenditure in certain areas we see  -  I will refrain from using the word 'inflationary' - a continuing rise in expenditure by departments. In this instance the departmental vote has been increased from $33m to $44m. I think that every honourable member will agree that is a quite substantial increase. I did check up on the reason for this increase and I noticed that there is is a requirement under capital works of about $4.9m for the installation of a new computer at the Woden Valley offices. It is my view that at a time when the Government is seeking the cooperation of and assistance from private industry, the Government should perhaps set an example and say that this is not the year in which it will make this purchase. From time to time the Government does come in for some criticism from the private sector because it appears that the Government is not doing what it is asking the private sector to do. I notice that the estimate for the salaries for employees of the Department has risen by $1.8m. The provision for a number of other items has increased over the provision for the last financial year. I hope that the Minister will bear in mind that these increases do not create goodwill with the people. 
In the last few weeks we had the announcement of an increase of 2c for each prescription dispensed by pharmacists. The Minister for Health will recall my efforts on behalf of pharmacists in my electorate seeking to have something done about the payment for prescriptions. In all fairness to the- Minister 1 must say that he has taken a full interest in this matter and he is interested in seeing that justice will be done. I assure the Minister that a great many- of the pharmacists are far from happy with the 2c increase in the prescription rate. It is almost a decade since there has been an increase and over the years their prices have risen. I have heard of arguments in which it was suggested that a freakish figure was fixed at the beginning of the last decade and it has taken all this time for it to settle down and become a more realistic figure. I am quite sure that the pharmacy guild, its members and the private pharmacists await with interest the result of the Minister's assurance that this subject will continue to be examined with a view to ascertaining the exact amount which should be paid to a pharmacist for dispensing a prescription. 
I want once again to make reference to the inception of the new health scheme and the system of setting up in the States specialist recognition committees to examine the qualifications, habits or practice of various doctors to determine whether they will be regarded as general practitioners, consultant physicians or specialists. The only comment I have to make on this aspect is that specialist recognition committees have an obligation to society using the principle of fairness, to ensure that they will use the same yardstick throughout the profession. It is of no use being lenient with one doctor and allowing him to be recognised under a particular heading while at the same time refusing recognition to another who is in a similar position. Those of us who have examined the Act will have seen that it lays down the type of practice, qualifications, habits, etc., of the doctors as necessary prerequisites. If these specialist recognition committees are to rule strictly on one particular aspect I think they have an obligation to be consistent in their rulings and to ensure that their decisions are fairly based. The creation of unhappy doctors within the profession is not conducive to a happy medical scheme and would only breed resentment. 
In conclusion I take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister again for the manner in which he has handled the inception of the health scheme during this year. [ am sure that with the co-operation of the medical profession those people in Australia for whom the new health scheme was designed will receive the full benefits to which they are entitled under the scheme. I look forward in the not too distant future to the Minister having a close look at the system of hospital charging so as to ensure that the present Liberal Government will go on record as having introduced a scheme to meet this situation which will be as successful as the Minister's new health scheme will be. 
I ask the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs: In view of the reported increased activity by the North Vietnamese in an area of Laos, has the Government given any consideration to undertaking any tangible contribution, "whether in the form of equipment or otherwise, to the Government of Laos and to the armies of South Vietnam to help them in their efforts in this area? 
When the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  commenced his speech he said that this Bill has been on the notice paper for a long time. I suppose that the yellow colour of the paper that he used for his notes indicates how long ago his speech was written. He made reference to the undesirability of monopolies controlling the news media. As a member of the Australian Labor Party, he is quite aware of the manner in which his Party uses its radio stations for pushing political propaganda. If any member of a party was aware of the danger of the news media being in the hands of a biassed party, surely a member of the ALP would be. 
My purpose in speaking is to raise a matter which is not under direct discussion at the moment but which I have been drawing to the attention of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  for some months now. Most honourable members depend very much upon their constituents to bring to their attention facts and features of various Acts of Parliament which, at times, are not exactly fair, lt was in this manner that in mid 1969 I had drawn to my attention the provision in the Broadcasting and Television Act which makes the person who is watching a programme on an unlicensed television receiver the person who is liable to prosecution. At that time 1 wrote to the Postmaster-General. He undertook to have the matter investigated and he did so. In due course he advised me that his department, in collaboration with the Attorney-General's Department, would examine the matter with a view to devising a legally acceptable arrangement whereby a person other than the one detected may accept responsibility and thus be successfully prosecuted. In most cases the person caught using an unlicensed television receiver would not worry greatly about who was to be prosecuted. But there are unusual instances. For example, a husband may not own the television set; it may belong to his wife. The inspector calls and the husband is watching the set, and automatically the summons is taken out against the viewer. In certain instances this can mitigate against the person caught. A successful prosecution may affect his employment. The wife, in the instance to which T am referring, may be more than willing to accept responsibility. The present Act does not permit this. 
Recently T wrote again to the PostmasterGeneral drawing attention to his letter of 15th October 1969. He told me that the matter was still being considered, in collaboration with the Attorney-General's Department. My argument is not with the Postmaster-General because the matter is purely a legal one. A legal matter has to be considered very carefully by the AttorneyGeneral's Department before it can give the best advice possible. But this is the question I ask: How long are we expected te sit by and watch Acts of Parliament, needing minor amendment, continue in their present state while innocent people are wrongly convicted?  Mr Bryant  - It is a waste of effort. 
The question is: For how long must we wait? J think it is completely unreasonable for officers of the Attorney-General's Department to take so long to come up with an answer to this question. All honourable members are aware that on occasions years can pass before an Act of Parliament is reviewed. Today, the first day of the autumn session of 1971, we have before the House the Broadcasting and Television Bill. There will be a number of honourable members, particularly on the other side of this House, who will never have an opportunity to voice any view on this legislation because it may be years before it again comes before this House. 
The Postmaster-General has acknowledged in letters that some change is desirable. I suggest that when items such as this are referred to it the Attorney-General's Department has more than an obligation to attend to them promptly. I am disgusted to read in today's newspapers stories of tape recorded conversations being used in a court case in Victoria. One wonders about the responsibilities of the AttorneyGeneral's Department when Acts of Parliament are so blatantly flouted from time to time. Nobody seems to care. I might say that 1 am one who does care. I. understand that the Postmaster-General has to wait on advice from the Attorney-General's Department in these matters. But for Heaven's sake let us have a change because in the meantime a lot of innocent people are suffering as a result of what might best be described as inadequate legislation. 
Is the Minister for Immigration familiar with the claim of some economists that it requires up to 2i persons to service the demands and needs of a migrant?  la  view of the present difficulties we are experiencing with inflation, are the Minister and his Department giving serious consideration to cutting down temporarily on our intake of migrants, thus lessening demand on services? 
Following the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  tonight, I think 1 owe it to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  to correct the impression that the honourable member for Prospect may have tried to convey - that in other countries the honourable member for Kennedy runs about seeing all these shows for self satisfaction. It would be far better to have a well-informed member for Kennedy than to have an illinformed member for Prospect. I commend the honourable member for Kennedy for having taken the trouble to acquaint himself with certain aspects of censorship. The subject is so intangible that it is not funny. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has a- most important task in that he is presently taking this nation into areas where we have not trodden previously; he is opening the doors, so to speak. Knowing the Minister, I am quite sure that he does not look upon his responsibility as a light one. Although certain people advocate that censorship has no effect whatever on the minds of people, the matter is still very much an academic one and one for personal judgment. 
Earlier tonight the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  spoke in the debate. Although most honourable members and perhaps the general public do not agree with the views that he propounded, I suggest that in this House he reflected the views of a great number of people in their early twenties and late teens. Too often older generations dismiss out of hand the views of the young. Too often the older generations say that the young are wrong. Too often the older generations expect the young to accept their decisions, lt is up to the older generations, to the Minister and to his Department to provide answers to the questions which loom so largely in the minds of the young. If one considers the speech of the honourable member for Maribyrnong and recalls his statement that censorship leads to increased depravity, one must concede that, with a little examination, the argument can be knocked over quite easily. If his argument were correct, Australia, entering the 1970s, should he a most depraved nation because over the last couple of hundred years a fairly strict policy of censorship has been followed. But 1 do not think it is. 
I cannot speak about the position in the Scandinavian countries in relation to censorship. The honourable member for Kennedy has had the benefit of visiting the United States of America and the Scandinavian countries. If one visits the United States one sees an example of censorship in a very minor degree. Most things that can be placed in print, either in colour or in black and white, are easily available. I did not see there any. lessening of the demand for this type of literature. As 1 have said, the subject is an intangible one. Recently a copy of a certain magazine came into my possession. I shall read to the House an extract from its classified advertisements. It is all very well for honourable members opposite to refer to what happens in other countries where allegedly there is no form of censorship and say that those societies have not been harmed, but 1 will leave in the minds of honourable members these quotations and let them decide whether the freedom in the United States - and I believe that in certain States there is almost complete freedom - perhaps has not stopped the depravity of which the honourable member for Maribyrnong spoke. Advertisements in a weekly magazine called the 'Berkely Barb' cost 50c a line, if any honourable member opposite wishes to advertise in that magazine. The first advertisement reads: 
I am Curious . . . (green) 
Beautiful chick 26 with auburn hair and dark brown eyes who is gentle, sensitive, and artistically gifted would Eke to meet someone similar to show her the way. 
A postal address given. The second advertisement reads: 
Mechanical Sex  Trip. 
May we help in your search for the ultimate sex experience? We sell the  Vibra-Sex 
The advertisement continues in that vein. 
If the honourable member for Wills listens, he might learn something. There is another advertisement to which I wish to draw attention. It reads: 
Want To Screw? 
Join the thousands of 'Eager Swingers' looking for the action they desire. Join and you will receive a list of phone numbers of hundreds of gals and guys waiting for your call. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware that in 1969  Dr Price,  the then new  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, said that the Organisation would broaden its work in preventing pollution from damaging the quality of life? In view Of the fact that our agricultural and urban-industrial scene has now reached the stage where scientific research without regard to ecological side effects and environmental consequences is no longer defeasible, scientifically or ethically, will the Minister state what steps have been taken to re-align or alter the research priorities of the CSIRO in the light of the Chairman's statement? 
Mt N.  H.  BOWEN-I  recall  Dr Price  making this statement. He took up office in 
May 1970 although his appointment had been announced some time before. The CSIRO has for some lime been doing a great deal in relation to environmental studies and pollution. I recall when I took over this portfolio visiting CSIRO headquarters in 1969 and meeting about 30 of the heads of divisions who were there for a conference on pollution and environmental studies. There are in fact 25 of the CSIRO divisions currently engaged in research programmes dealing with environmental studies. There would be a total of about 50 projects in this field. So in answer to the honourable member for Griffith I would say that  Dr Price  has reaffirmed his own firm belief in the desirability of CSIRO scientists fulfilling their role in this regard and they are actively pursuing it at the present time. 
Is the 
Minister for Immigration aware that a percentage of Australian university graduates from Asian countries, after being refused residential status in Australia, migrate to developed countries such as Canada? Does the Minister agree that it appears senseless for Australia to educate even one Asian for the benefit of a developed country when the scheme is meant to assist the socalled developing countries? Remembering that we cannot dictate policy for other countries, will the Minister give consideration to instigating the convening of an international conference of developed migrant-accepting countries so that the intention of our contribution might become nothing but 100 per cent effective? 
 I would like to refer to the composition of the Board of Management of the Institute of Criminology. I would dearly like to be able to afford to buy a few thousand copies of the Hansard record of today's proceedings to give to members of the Liberal Party in Queensland because, after reading it, they would know truly from the speeches of Opposition members what centralism is all about. The Opposition's policy of federal intervention has been made clear in the speeches of various members opposite tonight. I realise that in the Committee stage of the Bill I am somewhat restricted in what I can address myself to, but in spite of the earlier comments of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  that the States had agreed with the Bill and on the composition of the various bodies, I wish to register a very strong protest not only at the content of the Bill but also at the way the States have been prepared to step down and hand over their rights to the Commonwealth. 
Earlier, the Attorney-General said that the proceedings tonight would make good reading for the future, and would indicate that honourable members did indeed have hearts. I would regard the report of tonight's proceedings more as a book which could be titled: 'Paddy's Day, 1971- Advice from the Child of Federation to the States'. Honourable members from both sides of the House, including the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  have indulged in fatherly advice to the States. I do not understand why the Ministers representing their various States in the negotiations on the composition of the Institute so readily agreed to allow the Commonwealth Government to take over 3 of the 6 positions of management and to give the Commonwealth the casting vote. I am a humane man who would like to see ali crimes solved and I do not subscribe to a drug society. I regard that as dangerous. But I believe that the matters with which the Bill is concerned are very much the province of the States. Here the States have surrendered their rights to the Commonwealth; yet, almost in the same breath tomorrow, they will be jumping up and down claiming that the rights of the States are being whittled away. 
I am appalled at the suggestion made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that if any person in this nation has earned income by illegal means, and has declared that income in his income tax return, that information should be turned over to the police, whether they be Commonwealth or 
State. As a liberal - 1 use a small '1' - I defend the right of the individual to confide his private information to the Treasury without the need for any suggestion along those lines from a Labor member. Not one of them has spoken against the suggestion so 1 can only assume that they agree that a private matter such as this should become police property. 
 The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  claims to have invited members of this House to 2 meetings he has held recently. I wish to say very briefly and to the point that I for one have never received any such invitation. I doubt seriously whether honourable members on this side of the House were invited in the manner which he suggested. He claimed that the Labor Party was well represented. 
I wish to take this opportunity to make some comments on a recent statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the Premier of Queensland on the proposal for the resiting of the Brisbane airport. All honourable members will know that ever since I arrived in this House I have been a strong advocate of the cause for peace for the constituents residing in my electorate and those who have been subjected over the years to the increasing noise problem. I must confess that, having seen the joint Press statement, I was a little amazed at its wording. It referred only to the Ascot-Hamilton area. I wish to make it plain to this House and perhaps to some of the Ministers and members who come from places distant from airports that airport noise is a definite, intrusion upon the privacy of the individual. The individualdoes not dictate how many flights .will zoom over his house during the day or the night. The point is that he lives there and perhaps il has been his home for years. He has to take it and smile. 
The one good feature of the Press release was that it announced that in the future the  Brisbane Airport will be resited. Big deal!  Mr Speaker,  with your gracious permission I will read part of the Press statement. It is as follows: 
They said it was accepted that while all proposals needed 10 be compared a parallel runway system within the present- airport boundaries but moved about a mile farther to the north-east appeared to offer the most practical and timely solution. 
The key word is 'timely'. They mean 1978. There is an admission that this problem exists and that there is a need to do something about it. But the time scheduled is 1978. Are my constituents expected to continue to live in the present situation until the new airport is erected? Today I am advocating that something be done quickly and that 1978 be the date for the building of a second airport in Brisbane, not just a date for the shifting of the present one which brings so many problems to the people who live in the area. I have been in the homes of people who live in the Norman ParkHawthorneBulimbaBalmoral area. In each case the whole house has actually shaken as an aeroplane has gone overhead. If people who come from country areas happened to be in such a situation they would.no doubt think there was a disaster occurring, not just an aircraft approaching. 
I know there 'are many honourable members on both sides of this chamber who are affected. I know my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  has quietly but positively worked towards the solution of the problem of the Brisbane Airport. He has had my backing all the way. 1 recall the ignorance of certain honourable members who were or are in this chamber in relation to the problem: I remember that great Committee, the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, meeting in Brisbane. Honourable members and members of the public were invited to ' make submissions. Doing the right thing by my constituents, 1 wrote and asked them what they thought. I went along to a meeting of this Committee. I can  assure the House that It was like a court trial. There I was in the box being questioned. One member of the Committee said to me: 'But you live 2 or 3 miles away from the area, you are speaking about. It would not affect you'. I can assure the House, particularly those honourable members who do not live near airports, that it can be absolute bedlam 2 or 3 miles away from an airport. The noise nuisance can be tragic. It can interfere with school classes during the day. Sometimes teachers have to stop teaching because of the noise. It wakes up babies. In one of the homes in my electorate a pane of glass fell out-'of a window because of the constant vibration. ' 
Mention is made in this Press release of only the Ascot-Hamilton area. I would hate it to be thought, that reference has been made to the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley in this Press statement because he has worked harder than I and that no mention has been made of my electorate because of my tardiness. I assure the House and the people, of my electorate that I have always been at the forefront of endeavours to do , something about this problem. I am pleased that the Queensland Government, the Labor controlled Brisbane City Council and the Commonwealth Government are taking some action, but 1978 is a long way away. I dare say that a large number of the honourable members who sit  opposite will not be here then. Their day will have passed by and they will bc back in (he occupations which they held before the last elections. The point I wish to make is that the people of my electorate are not prepared to wait until 1978. As their representative in this chamber, I do not intend to sit idly by without saying anything and watch the hands of time move on. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. During his speech the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  referred to my interjection when I used the word 'garbage' and tried to tie it in with another part of his speech. My interjection followed his claim that Government members view social service benefits as nothing but handouts. I repeat: Garbage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
 We are now to continue the debate which commenced on Tuesday evening. At that time we witnessed a remarkable situation. During the second reading speech by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the so-called shadow Minister for Social Services, interrupted the Minister no fewer than 19 times in the latter part of . his speech. Hansard of last Tuesday shows that the explosion followed the Minister's reference to a statement allegedly made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the feather bedding of pensioners. At the end of the Minister's speech, because he had lost so much time through interjections, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  moved that the rest of the Minister's speech be circulated. Following the reference by the Minister to the Leader of the Opposition and the feather bedding of pensioners the honourable member for Oxley moved a motion of dissent from a ruling of the  Deputy Speaker (Mr Drury).  The motion was seconded by none other than another Queenslander, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is now at the table. The basis of the motion was that the Minister for Social Services had no right to refer to comments about feather bedding. Honourable members who were in the House at the time will remember that it was certainly an explosive situation. 
I agree with the honourable member for Dawson, except as to his statement that I was wrong, because the motion was prompted by the fact that the  Deputy Speaker  had ruled that the Minister was permitted to continue in the same vein, lt is obvious that the Opposition has a lot of feeling about this subject. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  entered the chamber, approached the honourable member for Oxley and advised him to withdraw the motion. Following that instruction or advice the honourable member withdrew the motion. I think we should turn back the pages of history to February when the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  and the Leader of the Opposition became involved in a situation. The honourable member for Shortland retires at the end of this Parliament. He has been here about 23 years, since 1949. A question of credibility is involved between the honourable member for Shortland and the Leader of the Opposition. I ask all honourable members whether they disagree with my view that a member who has served as long as and with as much honour as the honourable member for Shortland, deserves to go out with his character and reputation in question. 
The first reference to feather bedding arose in the Parliament when the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  asked the Minister for Social Services, who is now at the table, a question about it. Shortly afterwards in a personal explanation the Leader of the Opposition claimed to have been misrepresented. He denied that he had ever uttered the words 'feather bedding' in respect of pensioners. The subject was raised again on 24th February when the honourable member for Shortland sought leave to make a statement. He explained the history of the affair, going back into the latter part of 1966, at which time, he claimed, the Leader of the Opposition had referred to feather bedding. Honourable members will also recall how Sturt Corner, if we might name it so, reacted violently and claimed that the honourable member for Shortland did not know what he was talking about. Only one or two members in that corner of the chamber were members of this Parliament in 1966. I think it is significant that the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Oxley, who were here in 1966, were the members who took issue the other night on this matter. In replying to the comments of the honourable member for Shortland the Leader of the Opposition made some very pertinent remarks.  His  statement, which I will now quote, was largely accepted. He said: 
The astonishing thing is that for over 4 years nobody had heard of this allegation. Two questions arise from this. Why did the honourable member for Shortland raise this matter? Some clues may be found in Hansard. Before the 1969 House of Representatives election - 
The Leader of the Opposition went on very cleverly and artfully, because he is an artful man - perhaps an artful dodger. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)The debate has ranged rather widely, but I think the honourable member is getting too far away from the subject matter. I ask him to terminate that point. 
I am coming back to the Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  As I was saying, the Leader of the Opposition - the Artful Dodger - set about creating the impression that because the honourable member for Shortland had some troubles in obtaining re-endorsement, that was the reason he had gone sour on the ALP. He said that the honourable member had never raised the matter before. I realise that the honourable member for Shortland is a relatively quiet man, but noone here would doubt his sincerity. The simple exercise of going back into the past shows the position. Hansard of 11th April 1967, nearly 4 years ago - in 10 days time it will be exactly 4 years ago - records that the honourable member for Shortland in fact did refer to this very issue. This in itself smashes completely the argument of the Leader of the Opposition that the honourable member for Shortland ha.d never raised this subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I think the usual practice is to allow passing references of about 3 minutes duration, but the honourable member has been speaking for much longer than that on a matter not related to the Bill. 
1 realise that the Deputy Speaker has some problem sitting in the chair comfortably, particularly at this moment. 
I will come back ' to the subject matter of the Bill. I realise that probably that remark will attract wrath from the next speaker on the Opposition side, but I trust that honourable members opposite will give serious consideration to the points I made earlier. 
Is the 
Minister for Customs and Excise aware that the Queensland Government has recently introduced legislation dealing with narcotics and dangerous drugs, which is claimed to be complementary to Commonwealth legislation? ls the Minister aware that the Queensland legislation embodies the question of onus of proof? Do other States intend to follow suit, or is this type of legislation operative in some State or States already? Finally, will the Minister give the House an indication of the increase in narcotic trafficking in Australia over recent times. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to raise in the House tonight a matter which is not often referred to in either this chamber or the Senate. I refer to the value of tourism to Australia. It is a subject in which a number of members on this side of the House, through the Government Members Tourism Committee, have shown a great deal of interest over the years and a matter to which I have given serious consideration. In fact, I am in the middle of a survey of various aspects of the value of Australia's tourist promotional methods throughout the world. 
Last weekend the Australian Broadcasting Commission's programme 'Four Corners' dealt with the charter travel by airlines. I would not want it to be thought for a moment that my speech tonight is a case of a member hopping on the bandwagon in respect of this topic because the matter of charter flights is one which has posed a problem to the Government Members Tourism Committee for quite a long time. Honourable members have taken an interest in it. 
I wish to refer to some recent statements made by the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist 
Activities, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  at the opening of the Australian National Travel Association convention in Melbourne on 30th March. I do not intend to quote the Minister's speech extensively but I wish to underline a couple of the more important topics in his speech. Speaking of American tourism, he said: 
To illustrate what I mean, I intend focusing in on several of the major trends in 2 of our most important markets, the United States and Japan. 
Later, he said: 
We know from studies the ATC have carried out, that about 85 per cent of United States travellers to Australia earn JUS 10,000 a year or more. In other words, if we are' looking at incomes, that is where the market is. 
In 1967 there were nearly 17 million US families earning $US 10,000 or more a year. By 1975 there is. expected to be 35 million . . . 
I believe that somewhere in the Government there is a powerful line of thought blocking the development of charter flights. The policy that we are presently following is costing Australia millions of .dollars a year. 
During a private tour of the.United States just over 12 months ago, I made a study of tourism in the tiny island of Jamaica in the Caribbean. This little island earns in excess of $80m a year from tourism. Australia earns just over $100m from the same source. Mexico earns in excess of $1 billion a year from tourism while the State of Florida earns in excess of $6 billion from it. I know that honourable members will correctly submit that these areas have access to the market. What I am suggesting is that our policies are cutting off Australia's access to these markets. In his speech to the convention in Melbourne the Minister stressed the importance of where our markets lie. Yet, unfortunately, he did not suggest in realistic terms the way to get to these markets. 
Tourism is an earner of capital. From memory, I think tourism is rated as Australia's ninth biggest dollar earner. This in itself is a falsified presentation because in reality Australians, particularly young Australians who are travel conscious, spend some $47m per annum more in their own travels than this nation earns from tourism. Going back to this wonderful market that awaits us, it is interesting to note that of every 1,000 United States overseas travellers only 14, or in other words 0.14 per cent, visit either Australia, 
New Zealand, Fiji, New Caledonia or French Polynesia. This in itself should be enough to make those in the high positions sit up and take notice. 
Furthermore, American tourists constitute a minor proportion of the total number of foreign tourists who visit Australia. In 1969, of some 275,800 tourist arrivals in Australia only 50,100 were in fact Americans. Yet the Minister is telling various travel groups in Melbourne and no doubt in other places, that this is where our greatest potential lies; yet we are hardly even tapping the source. I regard tourism as being in an even worse state than an underdeveloped export industry, lt is a neglected industry and we in Australia are the losers in terms of income. I have no brief for World Airways, whose representatives at this very moment are in Australia trying to negotiate permission lo bring 15 charter flights to Australia next year. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a letter from International Travel Advisers Incorporated: 
March  26.  1971  Mr E.  J. Daly 
President Chairman of the Hoard 
World Airway*, lnc. 
Oakland International Airport 
Oakland. California 94614 
Ke: 1972 INTRAV/WORLD AIRWAYS 
South Pacific Adventure Charter Program Dear Ed: 
The purpose of this letter is to define in general terms the South Pacific Adventure Charter Program which we propose to operate with World Airways in 1972, and to authorize you to speak on our behalf with the various Government Officials involved in order to secure the necessary operating authority. 
We plan to inaugurate a fifteen flight charter program for groups constituted from medical, dental and bar associations in the United States. The tour will spend four days in each of the following three locations: Australia, New Zealand and Tahiti. The flights will originate from a variety of United Stales cities, such as the following: 
Richmond 
St. Louis 
Atlanta 
Miami 
Cleveland 
Oakland 
Chicago 
Louisville 
Hartford 
Dallas 
Buffalo 
Detroit 
Philadelphia 
Boston 
I want to make it clear that the success in marketing this program will absolutely depend on receiving the necessary government approvals no later than May IS, 1971. I also want to make it perfectly clear that if the necessary authorizations are not received by that date this program will not be transferred in any manner to any of the scheduled carriers operating into that area. Rather, it would be our plan to redirect these groups, for whom we serve as travel advisors, to other foreign destinations. Japan and certain European or African countries would represent attractive alternatives. 
In operating similar programs with World we have conducted extensive surveys which permit us lo draw the' following conclusions: 
Om customers are affluent and will spend on an average of $400 at each stop over and above the hotel and meal expenses which are included in the tour. 
Despite the affluence of the group, however, they will not travel individually to the same destinations because they prefer the company of their friends in the group program which we have arranged - that desire is greater than the choice of destination. 
This means that if landing and uplift rights are not available these persons will simply travel on charter flights to different destinations. 
I have complete confidence that you will present our complete point of view along wilh World's and authorize you to make the above representations as you may see fit to promote our common interests. 
Sincerely, 
BARNEY A. EBSWORTH 
President 
BAE:nr 
If honourable members read this letter they will learn some interesting facts, but unfortunately time limitation precludes my talking for too long on this subject. But I believe the Government's attitude to charter flights revolves around the question of the protection of Qantas. Those who watched the television programme last weekend will remember the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  sitting before the camera and in Churchillian style saying something like: 'I do not intend to preside over the disappearance of Qantas.' Full marks to him. He has a duty to look after what belongs to Australia, and I am right behind him in this respect. But it becomes a question of commonsense and of how long we should protect something that is perhaps losing us many millions of dollars. 
On all occasions when we try to expatiate on the subject of air travel and international travel we have thrown at us, or waved like a sheet of paper, the International Air Transport Association Agreement. I might mention that when I had a  certain problem with our international airline last year I tried to get a copy of the IATA Agreement. I do not believe that one exists in Canberra. If there is a copy here it is well locked away and not available to members. But this is not the main point. My concern is just how many millions of dollars we are losing as a result of our problem. As a nation we are a tourist flop and yet those honourable members who have seen the world will no doubt come back convinced, as I am, as one who has seen only half the world, that Australia is one of the most magnificent and wonderful countries in the world and that we have a lot to offer tourists. But our policy in relation to charter flights is one which is not to this nation's benefit. Charter companies will not take the passengers who are already intending to come to Australia. They will tap new markets and bring to Australia people who would otherwise go to other countries in the world. 
My only regret tonight is that the time allocated to me has almost run out. I should like to point out to those who claim that charter flights destroy the scheduled airlines that in the last three or four years both the number of passengers carried by the regular airlines and also the charter traffic have increased. My very sincere plea to the House is for Australia not to get on to the bandwagon of charter flights but to take advantage of the money that is available for the asking. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that the Travelodge motel group has been forced to cancel accommodation booked for the South African Rugby Union team as a consideration to other guests? What is the Government doing in an endeavour to put an end to the gun barrel politics being practised by the alternative government and its masters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Will the Minister undertake to write to Prime Minister Trudeau and draw to his attention the concern that exists in this country when newly graduated Asian students migrate to Canada instead of returning home? Further, if the Minister agrees to the aforementioned request, will he respectfully suggest to the Canadian Prime Minister that the Canadian Government give some consideration to requiring students to serve their own countries for a specified period before migration to Canada is authorised so that our scheme will become even more effective? 
During this month and the next few months the issue of sport will possibly hit the headlines in this country to an even greater extent than it did when the Olympic Games were held in Melbourne in 1956. Unfortunately at the moment sport is not being spoken of so much in the context of the achievements of our youth but has become a political issue. In recent weeks we have seen the Opposition and the Australian Council of Trade Unions working as one in their endeavour to force upon the Australian public and the Australian  sporting bodies their views on the question of touring South African teams. However, my purpose in speaking today is not so much in this direction. I wish to speak out on behalf of sporting organisations. 
Only last year an Australian team participated in the Commonwealth Games. Honourable members will recall that at that time  Mr Tunstall,  the manager of the team, was highly critical of the assistance given to the team by the Australian Government and the Australian people. I think $16,000 in cash was given to assist our people in their participation so far away. At that time there was quite a deal of controversy and discussion on the question of government aid to sporting bodies. It is practical to recall the editorial which appeared in the Australian' newspaper of 28th July 1970. I have sought the permission of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is at the table, and with the concurrence of the House I incorporate this editorial in Hansard. 
The indignation of amateur sports ' officials at what they regard as niggardly government support for Australian teams at events like the Commonwealth Games has become a standard feature of such occasions.  Mr Arthur  Tunstall, general manager of the Australian team at Edinburgh, has long been one of the leading proponents ot the argument that as 'official' representatives of their country, and earning it considerable international kudos, the athletes have a natural claim on public funds. 
No such claim exists as a right. Spending $7m at Expo 70 and giving the Edinburgh Games team only $16,000 may illustrate a curious doublestandard on publicity values but neither money nor publicity can be the main considerations lor either side. The general argument has assumed new implications in recent years which most Tunstall-style advocates refuse to acknowledge. 
One of them clearly is the point at which the extent of government subsidy, creates direct government influence, or the appearance of it. 
Any dividing-line that even existed between international politics and international sport has been demolished by the years of wrangling over competition with South Africa. The general attitude of Australian sporting bodies on this question has been to insist on complete independence from government influence. How is this to be squared with growing dependence on government money is not clear - especially when, in most cases, these are the same bodies which constitute the Olympic and Commonwealth games organisations. 
The viewpoint represented by  Mr Tunstall  is working itself into a corner. It is claiming on one hand, for example, that our sporting activities are non-political but, on the other, they earn political benefits warranting heavier subsidisation. It is arguing that independence of the Government is essential in policy but not in finance. And it is using as evidence the examples provided by other countries which often make no secret whatever of political ambitions pursued through sport. 
The Government told the Commonwealth Games Association quite openly that it was unwilling to go beyond $16,000 because it did not want it thought that it was influencing association policy or that of its constituents. If it erred in calculating the figure it was on the safe side. The Government obviously has hs thinking about what is. involved much clearer than have many sports officials. 
For the purposes of this discussion I shall make reference to one or two of the passages which appear in the editorial. The editorial is headed 'A going price on gold medals'. The article stated: ..  ,. 
One of them clearly is the-' point .at which the extent of government subsidy creates, direct government influence, or the appearance of it. ' 
The 'Australian' article at that time underlined a fact which is clear and has been adhered to by members on this side of the House when it said: 
The general attitude of Australian sporting bodies on this question has been to insist on complete independence from government influence. 
The final part of the editorial debated whether or not the SI 6,000 offered by the Government was sufficient. The editorial stated: 
If it erred in calculating the figure it was on the safe side. The Government obviously has its thinking about what is involved. much clearer than have many sports officials. 
This was the argument against .government assistance to Australian sporting teams by The Australian'. 
It is very difficult to calculate accurately the number of teams which have gone from our shores to represent Australia. However, on the work that' I have done I have been able to ascertain that1 137 Australian teams have made application to our national overseas airline in the last 2 years to see whether some assistance could be given under the International Aviation Transport Association contra deal system. Therefore at least 137 Australian teams have travelled outside of this country to represent us in that time. I became truly familiar with the problems of sporting organisations in the latter part of last year when I led an Australian karate team to Japan for the world championships. The amount of publicity that our country  received as a result of this visit and the goodwill that we created between here and Japan were something which would be very hard to measure in terms of dollars. Yet, the Australian team members had to meet the costs out of their own pockets. Certainly some people might say, "Well, if they wanted to go they should have had to pay'. Granted, we did not meet with a great deal of success in the world championships. However, Australia made a good impression at the championships which were attended by the representatives of 42 or 43 other nations. It is right that at this time I should make reference to the fact that the fares of a number of the teams were met completely by their governmens which were not necessarily the governments of Socialist states. Apparently the governments of many other countries throughout the world make contributions to assist the promotion of sport and their sporting teams. 
I know that the question of a ministry for sports is purely one for State governments. I am not suggesting that a Federal ministry of sport should be established. I believe that the State of New South Waley is the only one to have introduced such a ministry. I say good luck to that State because this is something that should be done right throughout Australia. What I am critical of is the complete lack of any financial contribution, other than to benevolent organisations, by governments to sport in Australia. I make reference to the representations I made about a year ago on behalf of the Eastern Suburbs Junior Rugby Football Club in Brisbane and the Morningside Youth Club. At that time these sporting bodies, which depend very largely upon public and parental support for their very existence, made inquiries about the payment of sales tax. The Morningside Youth Club was forced to pay IS per cent sales tax on 4 gym mats. The Eastern Suburbs Junior Rugby Football club was forced to pay sales tax on lights which it was installing around its oval so that members of the club could practise at night. Here we had an area where the Commonwealth Government, if it sincerely believed that it should not be directlyinvolved financially in sport, could have assisted in a manner completely divorced from any accusations of direct influence or interference. I hope that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  who has recently been promoted to the Ministry and who is at the table, is still inspired with the idea's of a backbencher and that he will go to Cabinet and advocate this cause. I believe it is high time that we in Australia did something for the young people. 
We spend hours in this House talking about the damage which is done because of the neglect of families. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  allocates millions of dollars each year in this area yet there is a simple answer to a big part of the problem. This is the provision or more facilities for our youth so that they will have an opportunity to grow up in a world of understanding, clean competition and sport. We in Australia are doing absolutely nothing on a Federal level to essist anyone in this regard. 
Let me turn finally to the question which I discussed earlier, of whether or not the Government should provide assistance to sporting teams leaving our shores. I would like to see the establishment of a completely independent body to look into this question to ascertain whether or not governmental assistance in this field would be interpreted as influence. If it were decided that government assistance would not do any harm then this same body could decide independently the allocation of funds to assist our teams. I am not saying that the Commonwealth Government should pay the full expense account of al! our teams. If your yo-ing sportsmen and sportswomen want to go overseas, the fact that they have been chosen to represent Australia is a great honour to them and they would be happy to make a contribution if they could. But let us as a nation and as a Government show the young people of Australia that we are proud of them and let us acclaim them when they return having covered themselves with glory. Let us show that we are prepared to back them some of the way and let us reverse the present policies which are not in the best interests of the young people of Australia and of Australia as a nation. 
The rather dehortative individual who has just resumed his seat presented a speech filled with inconsistencies. He is a model of the new young left of the Labor Party - the hope of tomorrow. He is a model of the inconsistently minded people that this House is being forced to listen to on various occasions. We often hear members opposite criticising the Government for censorship standards of requirements in respect of books, pornography and drug indulgence. They call for the opening of doors and yet suddenly on an issue like this they are filled with indignation. They say: 'Shut the doors to the South Africans. Keep them out.' It is pertinent to note that not one member of the Australian Labor Party has drawn the attention of the Parliament to Communist persecution - Soviet persecution - of the Jews, Czechoslovakians and Hungarians. It suits them to forget about the actions of the left. They harp on the actions of what they describe as the right wing countries. To me the persecution of any people is wrong. Another factor members opposite failed to mention is that by leaving out coloured players who may be better than white members is to South Africa's disadvantage. If the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  does not want to watch the South Africans playing rugby union or cricket that is his business, but for heaven's sake I appeal to him not to use the machinery of his Party or of the trade union organisation to force his views down the throats of other Australians because, come the next elections, he will see what Australians think of such tactics. 
On 6th April the new Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  presented a fairly comprehensive statement to the House on the current situation in the field of international affairs. He spoke mainly on Indo-China, China, the Middle East and Pakistan. Unfortunately, with only a quarter of an hour at a member's disposal, it is not possible to dwell too long on any one area. In view of the fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  saw fit to move a very carefully worded amendment about China - I say this because he made no reference to Taiwan - I thought I might speak about the South East Asian area. When we talk about South East Asia it would be a cardinal sin to omit looking at troubles that have arisen and been caused in the past as a result of China's role. On 2 occasions in the past few years I have paid my own way to visit South East Asia, an area which is so important to Australia. It is rather amusing or perhaps tragic to recollect the words of the Leader of the Opposition on 26th March 1968 when, in this House, he referred to the Tet offensive in Vietnam. Honourable members may recall that the Leader of the Opposition left Vietnam a few days after I did, just prior to the commencement of that Tet offensive. On 26th March, in this House, referring to that offensive, he said: 
It was clear before the Tet offensive that the policy of punishing North Vietnam had not destroyed the capacity of the Vietcong to mount highly organised and highly effective offensives and to overrun and hold temporarily any city or town in South Vietnam. It was apparent before the Tet offensive that the South Vietnamese Government had in no way won the confidence or the active support of the people of South Vietnam. 
In all these respects, and in every respect, the complete failure of the policy pursued by the allies and supported by the Australian Government was manifest. The Tet offensive has merely underlined these failures. The result has been that no city, town or village - not even Saigon itself - is perfectly secure. 
By our presence and by the American presence in Vietnam the stage has been reached where consideration can be given to the withdrawal of troops. The South Vietnamese, with our assistance, have been able to equip themselves and prepare themselves for the task of defending their country. We responded to a call for help. I do not believe that Australia or the United States intended that the stay in this area would be forever. As a result of our response to a call for help and as a result of our contributions, the stage has been reached where withdrawals can be made. The predictions of the Leader of the Opposition in 1968 have since been proved inaccurate. In South Vietnam today a large percentage of the villages and hamlets are completely safe. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition or my friend the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who seems to be getting his airline tickets ready, might not be prepared to live in one of the villages or hamlets at night, but a large number of these villages have been made secure from the Communists. The people have been strengthened in their determination to keep their country safe. 
In 1966 the crucial decisions were being made. If the Australian people had voted for the Australian Labor Party and if there had been a complete withdrawal of our troops, our future position would be such as very few thinking Australians would envy. A Labor victory then would have meant that we would not have given support to those countries upon which perhaps some day in the future we will be depending - countries with which we belong in a family and with which we work to secure peace. Australia is not an aggressive nation. It has retaliated, but it has never been the first to declare war on any other nation. I think that the inherent make-up of Australians is such that they just want peace. Another thing that the Leader of the Opposition has underestimated in recent times is the determination of the Australian people to make a contribution where subversion by Communist powers could possibly threaten our future security. In March 1968, following my first trip to Vietnam, in relation to Laos I said: 1 wonder bow long the situation can continue in this area as it is at present, without some form of involvement becoming necessary, or without the country requiring some form of assistance. 
In respect of Cambodia I said: 
I wonder what the future of this country is and whether it can continue to live in that part of the world without at some time taking sides. I forecast - and I say this with a heavy heart - that in the years to come, unless we win in Vietnam, Cambodia will be subjected to the same upheavals and attacks as we are presently witnessing in other parts of South East Asia. 
Those statements in 1968 are as true today as they were then. My predictions have come true. The Labor Party has failed to comprehend that had we withdrawn from that region it would have fallen into Communist hands by now. 
The Leader of the Opposition commented that Australia is involved in the Indo-China bloodbath today because of our attitude to China. What an exaggerated statement. What a statement made without foundation and thought. I wonder which member of his staff will be chastised for having written that into the speech that he read here tonight. We recall clearly that when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard),  came back from Vietnam approximately 2 years ago, he described in an off-guarded moment the situation in South Vietnam as being like that in Korea. Even though some members of the Opposition have newly arrived in this place, they are up with their history and do not need to be told again the true facts about Korea. We also remember that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  went to great personal expense while he was in Phnom Penh to send telegrams to the Australian Prime Minister calling for arms and equipment to be sent to Cambodia. Yet we, and the Australian people, are supposed to sit and listen, to members of the Opposition decrying our involvement in that part of the world. Every member of the Opposition who goes there and sees for himself what is happening has to be very guarded on his return in case he slips out the truth. This in itself is a most significant point. The Leader of the Opposition is one who believes that with the effluxion of time what he said in the past is not important. I believe that we have to consider what has happened in the past as well as what may happen in the future. 
The Australian Government is very much aware of the important role we have to play because of our geographical position. We as a nation - I have said this before in this place - are respected more than is any other non-Asian nation, if I might use that term, in this part of the world. The people of Asia trust Australia. They recognise that we do not go to their countries with the intention of overrunning, but to assist and help uplift their position in the world. That is a commendable attitude and has created great friendship towards Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred also to Canada's recognition of China. Noone can predict what might be in the minds of others or what motivates them. Canada is in a very lucky geographical position. We in Australia, in the Southern Pacific, are many thousands of miles from such nations as the United States which might come readily to our aid. The Leader of the Opposition has so often in this House urged the Prime Minister of the day to go to the  President  of the United States and say: 'We want you to do that'. He has suggested that the  President  of the United States would respond and say: 'Yes,  Mr Australian  Prime Minister, we will'. But that is not the situation. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition constantly has over-emphasised the importance of Australia and the influence it can wield. The point I am making is that Canada is on the northern border of the United States. I have been to those 2 countries and one could not help but be aware of the competitive attitude that exists between them. But Canada can afford to thumb its nose at the United States. It can do anything it likes - within reason - because it knows that in the event of its being attacked the United States, by the mere fact of its geographical situation if nothing else, would come to its aid. I am not suggesting this as a reason for Canadian recognition of China or the policies it has adopted towards China but this is something which has never been mentioned in this House by any member of the Opposition and I believe it is a factor which cannot be dismissed out of hand. 
We know that Australia is in a different part of the world. It is very pertinent to remind the House that the isolation of the great nation of China in the last 20 years has been brought about by its own doing. Mainland China has isolated itself. It has hardly wanted to have anything to do with the rest of the world and members of the Opposition realise this but skirt very quickly across it without great conscience while completely disregarding the future of Taiwan. The  speaker  from the Opposition who is to follow me - the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  - has a reputation in this House as one who cares about people. He has made many contributions in this field but I would like to ask him now what he intends should be done with the people of Taiwan as it seems that he will support this motion. I remind him that the Leader of the Opposition has left out any reference to Taiwan. It will be very interesting to hear what he has to say because we can be sure to hear a speech on the cricket tour and the rugby union matches. But let us think about the 14 million people of Taiwan as well. 
I direct my question to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the booklet This is an Australian' written by  Dr Jean  McFarlane of Queensland and her assertions that Queensland might be unfairly maligned for its treatment of Aboriginals? 
Is lt correct that the Northern Territory has a rauch worse Aboriginal infant survival rate than that of Queensland, the figure being some  17  times greater than the overall Australian rate? Will the Minister advise the House what is being done to remove this blot from our nation's record of achievements. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of reports that the Australian Medical Association is devising a scheme to scrap the pensioner medical service? Will he assure this House that the pensioners will not become the meat in the doctors' sandwiches completely and that we will retain a scheme suitable for them? 
 At the outset, I should, like to say that, like every other member of the Parliament, I recognise the importance to Australia of an overseas airline industry. I realise that for every Australian who leaves this country by air or by ship there is a considerable loss of our own capital and if we can recoup a percentage of this capital loss by accommodating people on our own airline it is to this nation's advantage. Almost every country has its own airline. I have been to many countries but I do not think that I have been to one yet where I could not have flown on that nation's international airline. Perhaps one of the problems of international air traffic today is that there are far too many airlines. Consideration should be given to a system whereby this situation could be rationalised and brought back to a sensible level. 
When we read of the sacking of some ISO pilots and the decision not to recruit more staff, we can find much to contrast between the situation of Qantas Airways Ltd and the situation in the United States of America where there have been losses of $150m by the major international airlines and where some 10,000 people have been sacked or stood down. It should be remembered by those who are trying to make excuses for Qantas that this is not necessarily a world-wide happening. In the European sector, airlines are still continuing to succeed. Many honourable members, including the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  have expressed surprise at the fact that suddenly we have been told that our national airline is in trouble. I have done research on this point and I notice that  Sir Roland  Wilson, while bringing down the annual report of Qantas for 1969-70 - I concede that it is not plainly written, and is fairly well couched - predicted a glowing and promising future but went on to say: 
However, new and increased competition from other international airlines, combined with pressures from rising costs, particularly in salaries and wages, make it doubtful whether we can expect a financial result in 1970-71 as favourable as that experienced in 1969-70. 
Perhaps that is an understatement. A little booklet, put out by Qantas last year and titled 'Qantas - at Fifty' is available to honourable members. If we read this booklet carefully, tucked away in a host of other articles, under a section titled Profitability', we find the following: 
There are some indications, however, that despite the introduction of 'jumbo' aicraft, this trend has ceased and unit costs are rising for the first time in the history of civil aviation. The airlines are caught in a scissors grip of rising costs and falling revenue yields and there is, in consequence, mounting pressure for higher tariffs. 
I cannot vouch for the correctness of this, but I have every reason to believe that, more than a year ago, the Department of Civil Aviation projected that Qantas was headed for trouble. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that we had been given little information on this matter and I should like to hear a clear and detailed statement from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  The members of this Parliament, whether they sit on' this side of the House or on the other side, are virtually responsible for what is happening to Qantas. The company reports to us each year, through its annual reports, and I do not believe that we have been given enough information. Perhaps the attitude in recent years has been that because Qantas has been doing well we should leave it well alone. We should not interfere. I notice, from looking at its annual reports, that in the last 10 years Qantas has had only one downturn year and that was 1966-67. Although Qantas has not had a completely progressive decade, on the whole, I imagine it would be the envy of many a business organisation. 
I think it was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who referred to the directors of Qantas. From the same annual report, under the heading 'Qantas Airways Ltd and Subsidiaries, Profit and Loss Account' we see that directors fees have risen from $22,900 to $28,725. From rough calculations I estimate that this is an increase of some 30 per cent. I think that the people of Australia have every reason to demand, when money such as this is being paid to directors, that results be continually good and that there be no downturn years. Perhaps the suggestion by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that the composition of the Board of Directors of Qantas leaves something to be desired may be worthy of investigation. I would not know for certain, but it is a point which was made by the honourable member and it is something which could be examined by the Minister. The average staff strength of Qantas is a story of success. In the last year it has increased by 5 per cent. Another interesting provision appears in the annual report of the company. Over the 50 years preceding its last report, $8,386,000 had been set aside for long service leave, etc. This year's report indicates that the figure has increased to $11,807,000- by over 40 per cent. One cannot help but wonder about an increase such as this - the percentage is quite considerable. 
My own experience of Qantas is that Australians . have every reason to be proud of its efforts overseas. On the whole it is doing a good job. A few moments ago the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  proclaimed how. proud we are of this great company which has successfully carried our flag throughout the world. Maybe one of our. problems has been that we have been blinded by national sentiment and have not been prepared to look closely at the results achieved and the way in which this company, has been growing. I cannot help but refer to. one  i  or two of my own experiences and .venture the opinion that while Qantas may be many things that members have suggested, there is still a lot of room for improvement. I recall an incident which occurred in the latter part of last year when I went- to the international terminal at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport to board a flight bound for Tokyo. On arrival at Mascot I was told that my booking, which had been made many, weeks previously, was . not available and that no seat was available. In retrospect I express my complete surprise that, having gone to the trouble df packing my bags with heavy woollens for the trip to Tokyo, on arrival at the international terminal I was told I would have to wait in the queue to see whether some other person failed to claim a seat. 
-It would not matter if I was a member of the Par;liament or an ordinary citizen. One expects efficiency when one makes an airline booking. This is only one incident. This is only the beginning. There were others during that trip when I stopped in a number of countries on the way to and from Tokyo. I found that I was placed on flights which did not even exist or which had been cancelled months earlier. I recall a few years ago going to the Hong Kong Airport to fly to Laos. I was told that my aircraft was cancelled for the week. That incident alone taught me to be a patient man. I would never have expected that our own international airline would have booked me on flights which did not exist. Then there was the occasion of the missing airline ticket in Taiwan which cost me a full day. There was also the incident when one member of our party lost part of his luggage. Collectively these things have not left me with a good impression of our international airline. 
I know that the father of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  had a lot to do with the formation of the Qantas company which began in my home State of Queensland. Honourable members should hear what the honourable member for Kennedy has to say about the efficiency of Qantas. A number of us in this place could tell good stories. A lot of people swear by the efficiency of Qantas; a lot of people swear by the inefficiency of this organisation. But my own experience has been - I can speak only for myself - that there is a high degree of inefficiency in Qantas and should our national airline continue in this way it will get a bad name and the losses which are being predicted for the future will most certainly become fact. This airline cannot continue to be dependent on national sentiment for support without coming across with the goods, and the goods are efficiency and goodwill. 
In passing, I mention that I know of one or two organisations in Australia with considerable dealings outside this country which have refused to have anything to do with Qantas. I do not say these things for any reason other than to try to impress on those responsible for running this company that they have a duty to ensure that everything possible is done to step up the efficiency. It is of no use to say that if we sack 150 pilots we will save ourselves $500,000, $200,000 or $lm. If this really has to be done then sadly that is fair enough. But if there remain areas in which people can justifiably criticise, Qantas has no alternative but to face the issue squarely before it makes a big decision to lay people off. 
Prior to entering Parliament I was by occupation an industrial officer. I have some idea of the relations which exist between unions and management. But when one looks from a distance at the record of Qantas, as an observer one cannot help but wonder just where the troubles lie. Sometimes I cannot help but feel that the various unions in the industry have been more militant than even some of the more extreme unions in this country, and it seems very strange that this should happen. I submit that it is possible that here again is another area of failure by Qantas and to which that organisation should give close attention. If Qantas has not already a highly trained and developed industrial relations section some of the money which it has put aside in past years could be directed towards this purpose. 
A few weeks ago I raised in this Parliament the value of tourism to Australia. Let it never be forgotten that whilst we in Australia might be saving considerable sums of money on foreign exchange and earning a certain amount of money because of the activities of our national airline, many aspects of our policy, whether it is implemented to protect Qantas or for some other reason, in the field of tourism are costing Australia dearly. I mentioned the other night in this place that Mexico earns $1 billion a year from tourism. The little island of Jamaica earns well over $80m a year. The State of Florida in the United States of America earns $6 billion a year. Ireland earns $1 billion a year. Yet Australia is earning in the vicinity of $100m a year. Tourism in Australia is a completely neglected industry. I believe some of the neglect can be attributed to the policies we have adopted in the protection of Qantas. There was an article in the 'Bulletin' recently which stated that whenever criticism arose the Government blamed Qantas House but Qantas House tried to blame Canberra. I do not care who is responsible for the continuing policy. It is a bad policy and it should be changed. 
I am not suggesting that we throw Qantas to the wind. Of course we should protect it from those overseas airline companies, those fly-by-night companies, that would make inroads into our established markets and bring to Australia people who would come here anyhow. I am advocating a more realistic policy for those companies which are prepared to bring to Australia by charter those people who' would not otherwise come here. We are shutting our doors to those people who have much money to spend and who want to see the world because we continue to over-protect Qantas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 All honourable members would be familiar with and well aware of the views of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who has just resumed his seat, on apartheid. I do not think any of us doubt the genuineness of his hope that the Australian Government will cancel future tours by South African rugby union and cricket teams as a form of protest against the apartheid policies of the South African Government, but I do believe that a great percentage of the people of Australia are frankly not interested in using the cancellation of these tours as a method of protest. We have often heard the views of the honourable member on this subject before and no doubt we will hear him express them again. 
Perhaps the most vital question of an international nature that is at present of concern to us is the question of China. There is no area in the world where there exists greater uncertainty as to what tomorrow holds than exists in relation to the land masses closest to the shores of Australia. An equally obvious comment is that it is the view of the great majority of Australians that the Australian Labor Party has been incapable of rationally and sensibly formulating policies to cope with the uncertainty of our region. Until the structure of the Australian Labor Party undergoes drastic and almost unforeseeable changes this assessment will continue. The only other way in which the foreign policy of the Opposition could acquire popular support would be for Australia to reject completely the philosophies which have determined our economic and defence attitudes since many years prior to the Liberal-Country Party coalition coming to power in 1949. It is only natural that, because of political leanings, some people will reject my utterances as being biased, but bias can determine accidental correctness. I have travelled to the countries of our closest neighbours on 3 occasions, twice at my own expense and once as a guest of another government. I hope that credit will be given to me for some sense of proportion. More than 13 weeks in South East Asia over the last 5 years must be beneficial to my understanding of the situation. 
The fundamental difference between the Government and the Labor Party, which has now lost 9 federal elections in a row, is the latter's apparent willingness happily to accommodate Communism at any time. The only time the Australian Labor Party has spoken out against Communism in recent times was during the Soviet rape of Czechoslovakia. I suspect it was motivated in its action more by indignation at the use of such blatant methods of suppression than considered philosophical disagreement. The only countries the modern Australian Labor Party condemns are those outside the Communist blocs. It is at its destructive best when organising demonstrations against non-Communist countries, such as South Africa. For myself, I reject the concept of suppression, whether it be practised in the United States of America, South Africa, China, the Soviet Union oi any other place in the world. But the selective silence of members of the Opposition has rightfully given the Australian public and the world many opportunities to judge where their sympathies actually lie. I believe that in reality my desire to live in a world of peace is no greater or no less than that of the Opposition. But the question is: How do we acquire and mamtain that elusive dream of man? 
If, when in Peking, the Leader of the Opposition had asked Chou En-lai what was one of the greatest lessons learnt by the Chinese people this century, no doubt he would have pointed to the Japanese invasion of a then militarily weak country and the need for preparedness against the unforeseen. This has been and is the foundation stone of Australian foreign and defence policies. We must always be flexible and capable of meeting the demands of a changing world. But I do not believe that flexibility requires of us that we should boot the Republic of China in the stomach and unreservedly embrace the Government of mainland China, as the Leader of the Opposition and those who sit behind him advocate. 
The Leader of the Opposition is guilty of gross over-simplification in his endeavours of self-justification. The problems of China have implications far greater than a comparison of 14 million people with 800 million people. How 1 dread and loathe his carefree dismissal of 14 million people. I speak not just as a Liberal member of this House but also as an individual living in a country with a population of 13 million. The corollary needs no explanation.  President  Nixon, as history now records, announced on 16th July his intention to visit mainland China. The Australian Labor Party, which for years has held to a policy of 'to hell with Taiwan', suddenly seizes upon this announcement as a vindication of its policy, as if it were the possessor of a great crystal ball. 
The true and stark fact is that mainland China has now shown a tangible interest in becoming involved in world affairs. Regrettable as the necessity for international defence pacts is, history shows us clearly the need to choose strong and reliable friends with a common interest. Mainland China's intervention in the Korean campaign, her massive contribution to the unrest still existing in South East Asia and the road she is building in Laos in the direction of Thailand are all factors which give the thinking person reason to be wary. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  made pleas earlier tonight for the House to recognise the Leader of the Opposition as the Moses of the twentieth century. If one examines the speeches and utterances of the Leader of the Opposition and those who sit behind him, there emerges another clear pattern - the pattern of their being on the defensive, wittingly or unwittingly. There are few in this House who could exceed the contact experience that the Leader of the Opposition has had in Asia. I give him credit for paying close "attention to our neighbours. I, too, have experience with Asians and understand many of their ways. Asia consists of more than just mainland China. There are the 104 million people of Japan, the 40 million people of the Philippines, the 40 million people in Thailand, the 17 million people in South Korea and many others. The effect of Australian Labor Party policy is 'to blazes with these people' and 'recognition of the mainland at any cost'. 
Canada, which is cited so often by the Leader of the Opposition and members of his Party - it will be cited by the next speaker, no doubt - is in a completely different situation from Australia. Being placed geographically on the United States northern border, Canada can be sure of one thing: That if ever North America as a continent was attacked the United States geographically would be forced, whether it agreed with the issue or not, to come to Canada's aid. We in Australia do not enjoy that geographical advantage. I reject completely any comparison between Australia and Canada of policies in the field of foreign relations because the fact of life is that we do not enjoy the position that she does. She is in a different situation. 
However, I was mentioning the defensive pose that the Australian Labor Party has assumed. I have been a member of the Parliament all the time the Leader of the Opposition has held that position. Never have I seen him so sensitive to criticism as on the question of his visit to Communist China. My experience with Asians has been sufficient to confirm the view that all the Leader of the Opposition has received in Japan is typical Asian hospitality. He has continued to be frantic in his attempts to retain his shattered credibility by claiming here, even as recently as this evening, that his assessment on the mainland was eagerly sought'. He grasps for anything that might give Australians the impression that we are but of step with the rest of South East Asia. Let me refer now to Hansard of only a few days ago. Last Thursday the Leader of the Opposition claimed in this very House, as reported at page 318 of Hansard: 
I might add that that night after my speech to the National Press Club I received a phone call from the Japanese Embassy to compliment me and to thank me on the balance of my presentation. 
That was a wonderful quotation. Those who were listening that day would rightfully have gained the impression from what he said that the Japanese Embassy was happy and going along with everything he said. Having some understanding of Japan's reaction to the Nixon statement - I might mention that I returned only 3 weeks ago after 3 weeks in South East Asia - I could not believe that this was so. I rang the Japanese Embassy at approximately 3 o'clock and asked for the Ambassador. He was out. But, when we eventually made contact at 5 o'clock, he denied that any such statement came from him. He subsequently checked with the Embassy and advised that no such claim was ever made. 
If the Leader of the Opposition sees fit to come into the House, as he did earlier tonight, to try to explain with some concocted reason how this denial has come about, he may claim that the driver of the Ambassador's car, as he was leaving the National Press Club luncheon, said to him: Well done,  Mr Whitlam'.  Perhaps that is the explanation; I do not know. All I do know is that the Leader of the Opposition has misled this House. The Japanese Embassy in Australia has made no such statement. The Ambassador has disowned it and disclaimed it. I do not consider it fair or just that the Leader of the Opposition or any other member of this Parliament should resort to using people who cannot protect themselves in this House, when trying to build up his own case. That appears to be what has been done. I demand of the Leader of the Opposition that he give a full and unequivocal apology to the Japanese Ambassador, because all he is doing is compounding the problems of this nation. I believe that he is doing every living Australian a grave disservice. 
When it was announced that he would leave for China, I wrote him a long letter which was sent by registered post. I said: If you finally get on your slow boat to China, on your trip of dreams, please,  Mr Whitlam,  raise with the Premier or the  President  of that great nation which you embrace the question of its involvement in Vietnam and its actions which have prolonged the unrest and unease in South East Asia'. If one looks at the carefully documented reports of the conversations that he had, all one finds is reference to his inability to control chopsticks capably but no reference whatsoever to the question of Vietnam and China's role in that region. I say: 'Fair .go*. If the Leader of the Opposition expects Australia to step ahead in international affairs and to play a part, he must recognise that it takes 2 sides to create unrest anywhere in the world. He sets himself against the United States- 
You sit down, my friend. You will not be here after the next election. He sets himself against the United States and constantly holds out a branch of friendship to China. Recent events have caused all of us some concern as to the direction the United States will eventually take. But if I am going to hitch my horse to any rail of hope - and I think history as it has been and as it probably will be will support me in this view - I would rather align with a powerful ally such as the United States than to put my faith in a glimmer of hope. It is true that we want to live in peace. There is not one Liberal Party or Country Party supporter here or outside the Parliament who wants to live in a state of war. 1 believe that every honourable member, be he on the Government side or the Opposition side, has an obligation carefully to assess history. As I have already said, the Opposition has lost 9 elections in a row. The tenth is coming up. Even after 22 years in opposition honourable members opposite still do not have the trust of the people when it comes to assessing foreign policy and directing our destinies in such a way as will ensure the long term happiness and security of ourselves as a nation. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Does the Minister recall the replies he gave to the Leader of the Opposition last Friday in answer to a question on notice by that honourable gentleman concerning members of the New South Wales police force illegally taping telephone conversations of a defendant who was before the court on 16tb March 1971? Was the Minister's attention drawn to allegations by the New South Wales  division of the Australian Medical Association that police were raiding surgeries and seeking access to patients' files which were once considered to be confidential? Will the Minister request the AttorneyGeneral to initiate proceedings against New South Wales police for breaching the Commonwealth Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act 1960 and show by example that we are not prepared to sit by idly while the rights of individuals are trampled upon? Finally, is the Minister as tired of hearing my questions on this subject as I am of the need to ask them? 
The exhibition we are witnessing today makes evident the wisdom of our forefathers when they draw up the constitutional requirements of the Senate. Today we have an example of members from Sydney and Victoria, by sheer weight of numbers, able to dictate the sitting hours of this House. Some honourable members have spoken about the great chance they gave members from the far-flung cities of Australia to let the new system work. I suggest that the system, as introduced some months ago, was not a proper system and we have not yet tried anything. We were given a compromise which was destined to doom from its commencement. The fact is that on a Friday the House usually rises at 4 p.m. and does not resume until 2.30 p.m. or 3 p.m. on the following Monday. What else would members be expected to do other than to go home? I draw attention to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  with his hair sleeked back. He is like a punter leaving the racecourse after he has lost his money on the first race. He hastens to get back to Sydney. But it is easy to get back to Sydney on a Friday afternoon. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  is the same, and so are the members from the southern capital. Why do they want the reintroduction of the old scheme? 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  can well remember when some honourable members returned to their electorates on the express to Melbourne. Came midnight on the Thursday and they would trot out, catch the train and travel to Melbourne. They would wake up bright and early at 7 o'clock on the Friday morning in their electorates. Yet members from Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania spent half a day travelling back to their electorates and, if they were lucky and had no plane delays, arrived in their electorates in time to spend a couple of hours in their offices. On Monday they departed again for Canberra arriving either late Monday night or first thing on Tuesday morning. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I confess to being a single man, but I do not consider that to be a crime. It has nothing to do with the running of this House, which surely is important. The honourable member for Grayndler referred to his plight and expressed his concern that when he returns to his electorate at the weekend he does not have time to see his secretary. He is a married man. He bemoaned the fact that he did not have the chance to dictate letters. Has he not heard of the dictation machine? He could sit in his office on his own with this little machine and dictate letters onto it so that while he was in Canberra the following week administering the affairs of the country his secretary could carry on with his electoral work. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you are a Queenslander, as I am. You have to suffer, just like yours truly, the problems and burdens of lengthy travel. If we are lucky, every week we spend 8 hours just getting to Canberra and back again. The equivalent of an ordinary working man's day is wasted in flying through the skies to get to and from Canberra. Members from the southern capitals catch one plane or use one form of transport and get to Canberra in less than an hour. Often it takes them only 40 minutes. This is the difference between honourable members. Whilst I do not intend to support some of the amendments that have been moved, because of the riders which have been added to them, T want it known that 1 believe that the experiment with changed sitting times has failed for one reason only, namely, that despite the generosity of those who made the introduction of the present scheme possible, the conditions they attached to it ensured its eventual failure. 
Reference has been made to honourable members returning to their electorates at the weekend. I can remember well, when I was a member of a committee of this Parliament suggesting that the committee should sit on a Saturday morning. It was not northern and western members who said no; it was the members from Sydney and Melbourne who said: 'No, we do not want to sit on Saturday. You can sit here on your own, if you want to'. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. On Tuesday last I directed a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  acting in his capacity as Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  Quite accidentally a number of newspapers referred to my question as being on the subject of the New South Wales Police tapping telephone conversations, when in fact I was referring to the taping of telephone conversations. There is a difference, because tapping is authorised under certain circumstances and taping is not. 
My claim is in relation to the difference between tapping and taping. 
-] direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a claim involving the Japanese Embassy's alleged complimentary comments relating to our negotiations with Japan and Peking China, ls the Minister aware that a check has indicated that no such complimentary remarks were made? This claim, involving as it does a foreign embassy, could influence Australia's overseas strategic relations and embarrass the Japanese Embassy. Does the Minister consider this to be the best way for the Commonwealth to pursue friendly relations with other countries, especially as this unfortunate claim was made in this House by the Leader of her Majesty's Opposition? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, asin duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In following the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  in this debate it is appropriate for me to remind the House that he is a member of the Australian Labor Party which has not been returned to power since 1949 after 9 Federal elections. In fact the Australian Labor Party has won only 3 elections in the last 55 years. I do not believe that the people of Australia are so empty minded as to accept everything the honourable member for Stirling said in his speech because these people have already shown that they are capable of sifting truth from fiction. The truth is that every honourable member in this House - he does not necessarily have to sit on the Opposition benches - would like to see a better deal for those people who are dependent upon the Government for assistance. I for one do not classify those who need social service benefits as people who are incapable of doing anything for themselves. There are opportunities available to some but not necessarily to all. It is up to the Government to ensure that those people who do not progress are catered for by a distribution of the wealth of this nation. 
Listening to what the members of the Opposition have said in this debate one would think that we as a nation of almost 3m square miles and some 13 million people have nothing else to do in building this country. There are other fields into which our finances have to be directed. The people who listen to the broadcast of the debates tomorrow will probably hear honourable members on the opposite aide talking about the problems of city development, highways, beef roads, defence - although they rarely ever talk about that one - primary industry and Australia's contributions to underdeveloped nations which depend on us for foreign aid. It is a fact of life that there is just so much money to be distributed each year. This Government has to have a system of priorities, particularly at a time when we hear members of the Opposition castigating the Government for what it has not done and at the same time taking a 2-bob each way attitude and saying that they support this Bill. The Opposition does support this Bill. 
There has been an increase in pension rates and the Government has worked to channel money into the area where it is most needed. We heard tonight members of the Opposition suggesting a system of superannuation. This is something which is not wholly unattractive to me but the fact is that each and every Australian as a taxpayer contributes in a way to a superannuation scheme. The question is: Do we give it to everybody or do we channel the available resources into the area of greatest need? I do not wholly embrace a system whereby people, on reaching qualifying age for a pension, have to lay on the table all their private financial affairs to be examined by some Government department. However, in a nation the size of Australia with a population of only 13 million money is a problem. Surely the Government has a responsibility to channel this money into the area of greatest need. 
It is always interesting to listen to speeches by members of the Opposition because every time they speak on the subject of social services their speeches are broken into 2 parts. If people read the Hansard record carefully they will clearly see that in one part of a speech members of the Opposition talk about greater increased assistance to areas of need but in the next part they talk about pensions for everybody. Members of the Opposition are trying to pull the wool over the eyes of the people. Everyone knows that there is just so much money to be distributed. I thought 1 might draw attention to honourable members to some interesting figures on social service contributions. I want to point out how much extra this community of ours has directed into social services with a population of 13 million people today compared with the amount involved in 1949 with a population of some 7 million people. In 1949 when this Government first came into power the Labor Party was spending only a lousy $149m on social services. Today this Government is spending S 1,1 81m. That is a tremendous increase over that period. In 1949 there were 403,000 people in receipt of age and invalid pensions and 43,000 people in receipt of the widows' pension. Today there are 941,000 people on the age and invalid pension and 90,000 on the widows' pension. It can be seen that the ratio of pensioners to population generally has increased since 1949. Australians are being asked to carry a greater burden today in assisting people who come within the field of social services than they were a generation ago. I am not condemning this but we should bear in mind the other things which have to be done in this country. It is all very well for members of the Opposition to scream as the honourable member for Stirling did tonight and dismiss the good work that has been done by this Government. 
There are one or two points which I would like to repeat. I believe that we in Australia are contributing to national wastage. Elderly people in receipt of the pension but without any supplementary assistance, who have a home, who are fortunate enough to retain good health and who live on, will in time have their assets depleted. They reach the stage where they will be unable to make a contribution towards the maintenance of their homes. I believe that this is a direct contribution towards the creation of areas of run down housing - I do not want to use the word 'slums'. I wonder how much this nation can afford not to assist these people. Serious consideration should be given to devising some means whereby, having acknowledged the fact that these people are unable to paint their homes or to meet the cost of maintenance on their homes, they could obtain loans at low interest rates in the same way as we assist those people with supplementary allowances who live in rented accommodation. This is much the same thing. I believe - and I notice the Minister nodding approval - that something should be done in this area. 
In considering other aspects of this Bill, it is interesting to note that tonight we have heard much criticism about the value of the dollar. As I said at the outset of my speech, I think that without doubt the position of pensioners still leaves a lot to be desired, but the fact is that things are not nearly as bad as members of the Opposition suggest. They try to paint this Liberal-Country Party Government as being a government which does not care but I completely reject that attitude and philosophy because the facts of life are that, having regard to the relative values of pensions over the years, pensioners are better off today than they were under a Labor government. It is appropriate to compare pension rates with other costs as they were in 1949, using a base rate of 100. In the 22 years since 1949, the consumer price index has risen from 100 to 254 while at the same time the maximum rate of age and invalid pensions has risen from that same base rate of 100 to 376.5. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. With the de-escalation of American involvement in South East Asia, does the Minister foresee a considerable drop in the capacity of the tourist industry to attract foreign capital to Australia? Does the Minister con  sider a change in charter flight policy a necessity to ensure the expansion of this still undeveloped industry? Finally, does he consider the imposition of a bedroom tax as being in the long term interests of this nation? 
In speaking tonight I wish first to pass some words of praise to the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  for the job he has done for Australia since being elected to this Parliament in 1949. He has been Postmaster-General since the federal election in 1963 and over those 8 years has directed his Department through a period of massive growth. It is interesting to compare the number of Post Office staff, which is about 110,000, with the number of people who reside in my electorate on the south side of Brisbane. My electorate has only slightly more constituents than people the Post Office employs. It is amazing when one considers that all of those people - men, women and children - who live in my constituency could be employed in some manner by the Australian Post Office. I do not believe that any department which has a staff of 1 10,000 people or a projected staff of 115,000 people can be totally efficient administratively. I suggest this, bearing in mind that there are thousands upon thousands of dedicated men and women employed in the Australian Post Office. 
Another comparison can be made in this direction. The combined numbers of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force do not equal the number of people who work within the Post Office. It does not matter how courteous, careful or praiseworthy the staff may be or how much they try to be efficient, the time has surely come for us to take a closer look at the present structure of this huge organisation to see whether we are getting value for our money. At the beginning of the financial year 1970-71 the overall Post Office trading profit was estimated at $3 Om. By the end of this financial year this had changed to a trading loss of $2m, with a loss on postal operations of S25m and a profit on telecommunications operations of $23m. The deterioration in the financial position is due principally to new wage awards. During 1970-71 some 50 new awards affecting Post Office staff were granted and the direct costs of these will add $77m to Post Office expenditure during the year 1971-72 compared with a 5-year average increase of $40m. 
I would trust that not one honourable member of the Opposition would try to make cheap political capital and suggest that this was an indication that I, the honourable member for Griffith, was against the cause of the worker. But this is a statement of fact: $77m has been added to the total costs. Whenever something such as this happens, particularly in the case of a public instrumentality, the people of Australia must pay. Basically, the abnormal increases in labour and other costs, the serious deterioration in financial prospects, the level of demand for services and the excessive pressures this places on available resources have led to the increases. I would like to mention to the House and to remind the people of Australia of the actual increases in charges proposed. Adjustments to the telecommunications operations will bring about an increase in the 3 basic telephone rentals from $47, increased by $8; $31, increased by $6; and $23, increased by $4. The service connection fee will rise by another $10. Local telephone calls will increase from 4c to 4.75c. 
There will be increased charges for the installation or renewals of miscellaneous items of telecommunications equipment. Telex call charges will be increased from 5c to 6c for each meter registration. For the average person and his involvement in the postage of letters, the basic letter rate will be increased from 6c to 7c for the first ounce. Parcel rates will be increased by 10 per cent for domestic services and 20 per cent for overseas services. Overseas airmail letter rates will rise by 5c a half ounce and 2c in the case of New Zealand. Aerogrammes will increase by 2c. Increased charges are proposed for registered post, etc. I know that the PostmasterGeneral is retiring at the next election. This will probably be the last real shot in the arm for the Post Office revenue. No doubt, he is pleased not to have again to be part of such increases, although he no doubt feels satisfied, as his departmental officers do, that there is no other way out. 
But when one looks back over the last 20 years one sees that in 1949 the cost to post an ordinary letter was 2.1c. The cost to operate from 1st October is 7c. This will be a rise of 333 per cent. Since 1956 the average wage has increased by 100 per cent. Yet the cost of posting a letter has risen from 3.3c in that year to the proposed cost in a couple of weeks of 7c. This is an increase of much more than 100 per cent. These increased charges have occurred despite the technological improvements of the modern day. I would suggest, with respect, that this makes the situation a lot worse. In recent times we have also seen delivery services of mail cut by 50 per cent. The old twice a day delivery is now down to once a day. The postal boxes in which people post their letters in the various suburbs are not being cleared as regularly as they were. This, too, makes the situation even worse. I cannot remember back too far into the old days, but I can go back sufficiently far to remember when one used to be able to send at a cheaper rate an envelope with the flap tucked in. This service has also disappeared. The other concessions that the Post Office has chosen to apply in the past are fast disappearing. I just wonder where it will all eventually end. 
We have seen the introduction of subscriber trunk dialling and the cut down in switchboard operators that are necessary. I think I saw figures the other week which indicate that 50 per cent of trunk line calls were now made using the STD method. Here is another saving for the Post Office. There is no need for an increased staff to handle the increased number of trunk line calls in the modern day. With the combination of all these factors, we should hope to see at some stage some stabilisation of postal charges rather than a continuation of increases. A Press statement was recently released by the Postmaster-General showing comparable rates of postage in Australia and overseas countries. It was interesting to note that the United States postage rate is 7.1c and that the Canadian postage rate from the beginning of next year will be 6.6c. But the facts of life are that the average person in North America receives twice as many dollars in his pay packet as the average person in Australia does. So if we are to relate this to the actual burden and costs imposed on persons in Australia, we have to halve the figures that have been suggested because of the opportunity to earn much more money in the United States of America and Canada than in Australia. In 5 short years we have reached a stage where a 4c postage stamp has become a rare collector's item. This is enough to make us stop and think where we are going and where the situation is going to end. lt is not my intention to support the amendment moved by the Opposition, i consider the first section of the amendment is only duplicating and more or less continuing the present problems. I consider the second part of the amendment which relates to the application of special telephone charges in country areas is purely political and is designed to enhance the position of the Opposition party with those people who live in the country areas. I dismiss the amendment as shallow and unworthy. But I say with great sincerity that over the years I have made many complaints and written to the PostmasterGeneral seeking explanations as to why certain things have occurred. For 5 years 1 have held my peace. But I do not believe that I can continue any longer and not acknowledge the feeling which is emanating from the electorate and from the people. 
I am not suggesting that the PostmasterGeneral's Department is a huge, inefficient machine. But I am suggesting that perhaps it is time that there was some independent inquiry, just as one has been set up to inquire into the Repatriation Department, quietly to look at the methods it uses. It does not matter how good an organisation is. It does not matter how good the men at the top may be. There is always room for improvement. I feel that with the rapid escalation of postal rates over the years the time has come when the Government and the people of Australia must take a good look at what is happening. I am only echoing here the sentiments of the people. Naturally. I hope that I will be in this chamber for many years to come. But I hope that I see a cessation of this rate of increase and that I will not be called upon again in the future to pass remarks of condemnation of this Department. I make it clear once again that I am not directing my remarks at individuals. But I am not going to the other extreme that we have seen tonight with some hypocricy being demonstrated by some honourable members. I will not say that they were honour able members from the other side of the House, but one could feel that I am implying that. Some honourable members have risen in their places and said that everyone who works for the Post Office is good. I suggest that any organisation which has 110,000 people working for it must have some dead wood. The way to prune that dead wood and to make the Department even more efficient is a challenge which lies in the future for the Government and for the Department. As 1 said earlier, I for one am no longer prepared to come into this House and blindly support increases in postal and telecommunications charges year in year out. 
In directing a question to the Minister for Defence, I refer to the joint United States-Australia defence space research facility at Pine Gap. Is the Minister aware of the assertion that the establishment of foreign bases on Australian soil is a piece of national treachery? Is there any justification for such a claim? Secondly, is this view representative of the thinking of any group of members of this Parliament? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I refer him to 26th August 1970 when in this House a former Attorney-General, referring to a major consideration in his decision not to prosecute  Mrs Margaret  Berman, of Victorian abortion inquiry fame, for her infringement of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act, said: 
The lady concerned was suffering from the terminal stages of q fatal disease, and ] would not be the first Attorney-General to manifest some disinclination to prosecute a person in this condition. 
Did the Minister see  Mrs Berman  on the television programme This Day Tonight' last week being interviewed about her difficulties in obtaining and retaining employment? Did he witness her calculated evasiveness when asked about the condition of her health? Will the Minister ask the Attorney-General to review the Berman case to ascertain if this condition still exists? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Navy. I refer to the search for the crew of the 7- man vessel 'One and All' missing off the east coast of Australia, ls the Minister in a position to confirm or deny that the vessel sailed without seaworthy certification by the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine? Secondly, will the Minister assure the House that the search for the survivors will not be abandoned while hope still exists? 
I ask the 
Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport whether he will spell out to the House details of the difficulties encountered by his departmental officers in their unsuccessful endeavours to prevent the 'One and All' from sailing in southern waters long before it went to Queensland and commenced its disastrous voyage? Can the Minister tell the House whether any national government lacks control over its territorial waters as much as this Government does? 
I have listened with great interest today to a number of speeches from both sides of the chamber. Some speeches have been impressive and worth listening to and although I cannot help but disagree with some of the views expressed by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  1 commend him for some clear thinking on this subject. In recent days we have heard rather dramatic exaggerations of the way patients are treated in these hospitals. Whilst we are in the Committee stage of the Bill, I believe that if members of the Opposition are convinced that there is unfair and bad treatment in these hospitals and that the situation is as they have painted it, they have an obligation to name the particular hospitals. It is not fair to the entire hospital system for honourable members opposite to drag an 8-inch wide paint brush across every private hospital which is involved in this field. Unfortunately many honourable members have done this, and the effect is - 
The hon ourable member has spoken and he can just settle down. The effect of these comments is to cause great concern in the minds and hearts of the close relatives of people in these hospitals. I would suggest, with respect, that if any member of the Opposition has any information to back up the sweeping statements that have been made, he has a duty and an obligation to go to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and to name those particular hospitals. lt has been suggested by Opposition members that the moment the increased subsidy is approved, the hospitals will gobble it up without any benefit to the patients or to the people who are contributing to keep people in the hospitals. I do not know what has happened since yesterday's meeting but when I was in Brisbane on Monday, knowing that this subject was. to be discussed and having had a couple of inquiries from some of my constituents, I spoke to people who are involved in this field. They informed me that great consideration was- being given to returning  a  percentage of the increase to the patients so that it would become an actual patient benefit and would lessen the contribution that these people must make for their hospitalisation. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  went to great lengths to say that some new system of guidelines should be drawn up to decide who would qualify for what is described as the intensive care allotment. I fully realise and appreciate that there are many people who probably do not require the extra attention for which the money is being paid. By way of interjection I asked the honourable member for Hawker - I noticed that he was rather stunned for  a  moment or two and was unable to answer my query - to specify the guidelines which should be drawn up to meet this situation. Any honourable member can say that this is wrong and that is wrong but it is more difficult to be able to present new views and to suggest methods which could be implemented. The same arguments can apply to the patient benefit for nursing home care which is to be increased from $2 to $3.50 a day. We all know that in this field  a  number of people who qualify for this nursing home benefit really should not be in these hospitals. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, the honourable member is sitting on the wrong side of the House. Will you name him? As I was saying, a lot of people who are receiving this money benefit should not really be in these particular hospitals. I suggest that a greater effort should be made to police the qualifications of patients to ensure that the taxpayers of Australia pay only what is required and no extra. Earlier today there was criticism of our hospital system, care for the aged and ill and of the intensive care provisions. I submit that Australia has the best record in the world in the provision of beds per thousand of population for people over the age of 65. It is all very well for members of the Opposition, with their Socialist doctrines and philosophies, to knock the present system but that system has been developed to the stage where beds are being provided for such people. Perhaps we have not completely solved the problem of the cost but I am quite sure that the present Government, in the years to come and as it remains in office, will continue to work on this aspect. As I said earlier, the organisations in Queensland intend passing back to the patients part of the increased benefit so lowering their contributions. I hope the situation will continue to improve in Queensland. 
I wish to support the request by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  In doing so I am not necessarily supporting the suspicions he has expressed. I support him just on the principle that a marine inquiry should be held. I did place question No. 4488 on the notice paper today in which I asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  whether, in view of the information which had come to his hand about the One and All', a full scale marine inquiry would be set up and also why the 'One and All' travelled to the Middleton Reef. I might say that the reason 1 became quite suspicious as to previous decisions in regard to the 'One and AH' was that in Adelaide, before the ship even went to Queensland, the Commonwealth Government had made a pronouncement on this vessel, as I mentioned in the House yesterday. Last weekend when I was travelling on an aeroplane to Sydney I happened to sit next to an ex-public servant who, unfortunately, had forgotten his vows and, thinking that I was just another person, started telling me everything he knew about the history of the 'One and Ali' and his department's dealings with that ship some months ago. But I have risen only briefly to support the honourable member for Newcastle in his call for a marine inquiry and to underline the fact that in reality he is supporting the request I have made in my question. 
during the course of his speech tonight mentioned that he believed that the lack of educational opportunities in the Territory of Papua New Guinea was not important. T have no intention of challenging those remarks. T intend to make a study of the educational background in the Territory. As all honourable members know Papua became an Australian Territory in 1906. Under the Treaty of Versailles New Guinea became a mandate of the League of Nations and in 1921 Australia was given responsibility for civil administration. In the early decades our interests were conceived narrowly in terms of strategic importance. Prior to the Second World War there were only 500 children in Administration schools and 90,000 children in mission schools. At this stage 1 think it is only proper that we express our recognition of the fact that if missions had not moved into the Territory in the early years the base which has been built upon in recent years would have been very shaky. Recently in Auckland the Anglican Bishop of New Guinea, the Rt Reverend David Hand, said that the church was in the box seat because of its past efforts in education. Society in Australia recognises that the church is involved in hospitals, homes for the aged, corrective institutions, work in underprivileged areas here and overseas and is doing nothing but good. 
It is appropriate at this stage that I praise and mention my feeling of admiration for those people who are working as missionaries in the far flung regions of the Territory and doing a good job. In fact, the Australian liberal philosophy is one which promotes, assists, helps and encourages selfhelp. In recent years the Government has made a marked contribution in the field of State aid to assist the churches in their educational work. But when we hear the concept of State aid being defended, arguments such as the right of choice of education and the benefits of a dual system of education are discussed. Briefly I shall mention what comprises the dual system of education as it exists in the Territory. The T schools follow a Territorial syllabus and provide the indigenous population with primary, high, technical and vocational school education and the A schools follow the New .South Wales syllabus and provide a primarily academic education for the children of expatriates as well as for indigenous and mixed race pupils with early facility in the English language. That is different to what we in Australia understand as a dual educational system. The dual systems of the Administration and non-Administration schools generally do not overlap. In 1970 non-Administration schools had approximately 50 per cent greater total enrolments than did Administration schools. Unfortunately the extent and depth of educational services in Papua New Guinea are as yet insufficient to meet the potential demand. In reply to a question asked in the House about a month ago the Minister for 
External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  provided information in relation to the number of children in the Territory who were unable to obtain primary and secondary education. It is estimated that there are 359,000 children in the 7 to 12 age bracket in the Territory and of these 223,000 are in primary schools. It is estimated that approximately 60 per cent of students completing a primary education are unable to obtain a place in secondary schools. That means that 3 out of 10 children have the opportunity to go through to secondary schools. 
Prior to the Second World War the great bulk of educational opportunity in Papua New Guinea was provided by voluntary mission schools and was essentially limited to primary schooling. After the war an increased awareness of the needs of and responsibility for territorial advancement brought a much greater official Australian involvement in education as well as in other fields. Despite this growth and its anticipated acceleration the missions will continue to be the major educational force in the Territory. This can be seen most clearly in the present policy of locating new Administration schools in new areas so as to spread educational resources as widely as possible and to prevent competition between the 2 systems. In effect an educational monopoly is held by either the Administration or one of the voluntary missions in each area or village. Some criticism has been levelled at this. 
The missions have tended generally to operate at the purely local level and hence are more village oriented than are schools in the Administration network. Village pressures have tended to cause missions to expand their facilities horizontally rather than vertically. Mission policy has been aimed at preparing the majority of pupuls for village life. Alan Randall's 'Reorganisation of Education in Papua New Guinea' covers this quite clearly. He is an officer of the United Church. This emphasis upon the village has worked against the building up of a national character and national attitudes in the indigenous population. In particular, political education has suffered. This was emphasised recently by the United Nations mission which visited the Territory earlier this year. 
Missions have tended to regard spreading the gospel as their prime activity. 
Recently I made a study of a paper by Daniel Kunert who is a member of the New Guinea Lutheran Mission-Missouri Synod. He made a study of Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Ghana. I say to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  that we have nurtured a system of education in the Territory which I believe is making one of the greatest long term contributions to the lack of unity in that country. The system now is that if the Catholic church, the Anglican church, the Methodists, the Baptists - if any church one wishes to name goes into the area we say: 'OK. That territory is yours.* The system is such that the cargo cult could qualify for State aid in the Territory if it wished to set up a school. If anyone doubts that he should make a close study of it. I believe that we in Australia, not through meanness but perhaps through lack of vision, are making a big mistake for the future, perhaps 50 years from now. 
In the paper to which I have referred  Mr Kunert  said that schools have also been used by various missions to cause divisions within the country, setting denomination against denomination. While this has been true only to a limited extent, it is something which a country preparing for unity and independence cannot afford to tolerate. I believe that parents have the right to pick the school of their choice and to choose a particular denomination if they want their children to have a religious upbringing. But what I am arguing against is that no choice exists. Either one goes along and becomes indoctrinated or trained in some particular religion or one does not get an education at all. I believe that the people of Australia must play a much greater part in the Territory by making more money available for 2 aspects of education. The first is to ensure that a greater percentage of the people does receive an education. The second is to ensure that the dual system which we have adopted, which we cherish and which we have fought for in our own country is offered to the people of Papua New Guinea. At present we are giving them a second rate choice in education. Unfortunately I think that we will feel the effects of this policy in years to come. It will not contribute to the stability of this nation which is our closest neighbour. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Has the Minister seen a report alleging that 2 Soviet citizens who sought political asylum in Australia were subsequently subjected to considerable psychological harassment in Sydney involving the Second Secretary of the Consular Section of the Soviet Embassy? Further, is it correct that one of the refugees was physically restrained from leaving the Soviet Embassy and was involved in a scuffle at the Canberra Airport while trying to board a plane for Sydney? Have officers of the Department interviewed  Mr  Strakhovsky?  Is there any truth in the allegations? Finally, is it reasonable to assume that, like any other person in Australia, a person who has sought political asylum is entitled to the protection of our law against unlawful restraint? 
 I wish to speak only briefly on this matter. As a member of the Privileges Committee, I would like to endorse the comment of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that the suggestion of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  whilst appropriate, is a little impractical. It is terribly difficult to check on the authors of letters because with the number of people who change addresses the electoral rolls would- never be up to date. Often this Parliament is rightly and justly criticised for wasting time, but the number of hours that the Committee hits had to sit to come to a' fair and just decision on whether or not this letter constituted a contempt of Parliament is something which should not be allowed to pass unmentioned. I am not sure at the moment exactly how many meetings we had to ensure that the final decision would be honest, just and fair, but I can assure members of the Press and the editors that collectively the hours would have been many and that our deliberations would have involved the time of some very important, members of this Parliament, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  other members from the front bench of the Opposition and some senior members of my Party. 
I would like to impress upon members of the Press the importance of becoming closely acquainted with what actually constitutes a contempt of Parliament. It includes falsehoods, inaccurate reports and so on. In its position the Press has a responsibility to avoid writing things which are anything but the truth because at any time of any week many a member of this Parliament sees something written about himself which he knows is false and inaccurate, but Australians are a race of people who are prepared to take a little without whingeing and complaining every time. If every time there was a contempt of Parliament it was referred to the Committee, the Committee would be sitting for more hours than the Parliament itself sits. 

 Mr Speaker, I see you nodding your head in agreement. It is most desirable that the Press play its role, with the greatest degree of responsibility because it is indirectly contributing to a waste of public money and time by virtue of members of Parliament being tied up for many hours sitting on these committees. 
In the 5 years I have been a member of this Parliament I have never heard in a speech so much hypocrisy as was contained in the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  He is doing a good job in keeping alive the somewhat questionable reputation of members from that electorate. I speak now as a member who has been overseas on a number of occasions. On each and every occasion I have paid my own way. I have not cost the Australian taxpayer a cent. 
That is about as much as we could expect from the babbling didgeridoo from Sturt. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark. 
All rightthe didgeridoo from Sturt. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark. 
All right, so that I can continue my speech. As I was saying,  Mr Acting Speaker,  or whatever you may be - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Griffith to withdraw that remark. 
And that one,  Sir. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  You will withdraw the remark  'Mr Acting Speaker  or whatever you may be'. 

 - Mr Chairman. Is that better? Good. As I was saying, I speak as one who has received no gift from the Australian people to help him go on these jaunts, as the honourable member for Adelaide described them. I remind the House that it is not many months since the honourable member returned to this Parliament after a trip around the world undertaken within 2 years of his election. The honourable member for Adelaide referred to VIP flights. I am very loath to refer to this matter, but in defence of Ministers of my own Government I feel I have no alternative but to raise the matter of the use by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  of a VIP aircraft to fly to Brisbane to open a swimming pool in one of the suburbs there a few weeks ago. The honourable member is shaking his head. He does not think it possible. I can assure the honourable member for Adelaide that what I say is dead right. 
I have taken the trouble to investigate why the Leader of the Opposition used a VIP plane on that occasion. It was because he was in another town, away from a capital city. The only way he could get to Brisbane in the short time available was by using a VIP plane. I am quite certain that after the hullabaloo 3 or 4 years ago that followed the alleged misuse of VIP planes there is no Minister in the Parliament who would not think twice before asking for a VIP plane. When Ministers do use VIP aircraft, it is not just for joyriding, lt is because the people of Australia have an equal demand on the time of Ministers. If the people in Coochi Mudlo or Cribb Island want to see a Minister and he can get there only by a VIP plane, because of his duties, I say it is fair enough and the people should not be deprived of their right to see their Minister. 
The honourable member for Adelaide made a big deal of the number of Ministers who are going overseas on what he called jaunts. This is great for the electorate. What a wonderful thing it $. We can be sure that the honourable member for Adelaide will get a great Press tomorrow or the next day, even if he has to take a copy of Hansard to an editor. This is great for local consumption but what about Australian consumption? I do not believe there is a great deal in making a trip overseas. If a Minister goes overseas he acquires knowledge which he can apply in the running of this country. I say good on him for bringing that knowledge back to this country. 
What a cheek the honourable member for Adelaide had in referring to the trip of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the United States and the United Kingdom. I know that the honourable member visited the Soviet Union on his trip. Perhaps if the Prime Minister had gone to the Soviet Union or to Peking the honourable member would have been on his feet applauding him and saying what a good thing it was. The honourable member may not be here after the next election. I do not believe it is wrong for members of this Parliament to visit the United States and to hold discussions there. 
That is not for me to say. The Prime Minister will go on from the United States to London. Australia is just one of the nations which, because of world circumstances, are suffering the repercussions of economic problems. It is not our fault here in Australia. It is a world matter. If the Prime Minister, by his visit overseas, can talk with people and make arrangements that will be to the betterment of this country, I am proud to stand behind him and to say: 'Good on you. Prime Minister'. 
The honourable member for Adelaide has a lot to learn. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  agrees with me on this matter. The members of Parliament have to protect the institution. It is difficult enough for the people outside the Parliament to understand a number of matters. I recall very clearly the time when a former honourable member for Adelaide made certain remarks about honourable members in the Parliament. They were the types of remarks that many members of the public would have liked to believe. The present honourable member for Adelaide has done exactly the same thing tonight. He has tried to make cheap political capital out of people such as the Prime Minister going on what the honourable member calls jaunts' when, in fact, the Prime Minister is on a fact-finding mission on which he will make a contribution to the betterment of this nation. I think the remarks of the honourable member are cheap and nasty. I say to Ministers in this Parliament  -  I stand beside the honourable member for Adelaide on this question - do not misuse VIP aircraft and do not go on jaunts. But, if they have a legitimate reason for using those aircraft for the benefit of the people of Australia and Australia as a nation, I am with them all the way. 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Has the Minister read a statement by  Mr Wally  Bauer, the exowner of South Molle Island situated off the beautiful Queensland coast, that he had sold out with a feeling of disappointment and disillusionment about the lack of Government policy on tourism? Is the Minister aware that war torn Ireland and Mexico earn more than $1 billion a year from tourism and Florida  $6,000m  whilst our own earning rate is on a par only with that of the island of Jamaica? Will the Minister give top priority to devising a means whereby the Commonwealth Government can assist the tourist industry as the Development Bank assists secondary industry? Does the Minister agree that hundreds of millions of dollars of overseas currency are being lost indirectly every year because of 
S'ur present policy7 Finally,  Mr Speaker  - I ad better leave it at that. 
1 speak tonight on a subject on which I have spoken a number of times over the last 4 and a bit years. In fact, I have asked 9 questions and made 5 speeches in this chamber on the subject and this is the sixth speech so the genuineness and sincerity of my concern should not be questioned. 1 deal principally with the question of the invasion of privacy by various means, such as the use of listening devices, the tapping of telephones and the taping of telephone conversations which in recent times have become more and more acceptable in courts of law as evidence. I would like honourable members to reflect upon the thought that a man without privacy is a man without dignity. I hold very closely to that point of view. The scientific prospects for the next decade indicate a continuing increase in the range and versatility of listening devices. Man today is becoming swamped by the proliferation of the very technology he has created. The question is: What are we doing? I suggest that we are marking time; in fact, we are taking 2 steps forwards and 3 backwards. 
On 24th August 1971 in the Senate in reply to a question asked by  Senator Carrick,  the newly arrived senator from New South Wales, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said:   all my endeavours are designed to ensure that the privacy and the rights of individuals, subject to law, are protected and preserved as far as possible. 
That was indeed a Churchillian statement, but what Churchill said he would do he did. I am still waiting to see action from the Attorney-General. In recent years under the Act we have seen the Pentridge case in North Queensland where the Government sat by while somebody who had taped alleged conversations was allowed to present that evidence in court and as a result a man was convicted. We had a case in Brisbane a couple of years ago where a person wrote to the editor of the Brisbane Telegraph' claiming that he had recorded certain telephone conversations. I drew this to the attention of the Attorney-General and the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and the answer I received from them was that there was not sufficient evidence. 
Then we had the big abortion inquiry in Victoria.  Mrs Margaret  Berman who had carefully recorded many conversations - not that I am condoning the actions of certain people in Victoria - had in fact broken the law. When the Attorney-General was asked in this House why the Government was not taking action he informed the House that  Mrs Berman  was suffering from an incurable disease. On 29th September I asked a question in this House after  Mrs Berman  had appeared on a television programme and, I am happy to say. looked remarkably well. I asked whether it had been established that she had got over her disease and whether prosecution could now proceed. I asked the question on 29th September and it is now November. I suppose by the middle of next year we might have had an opportunity to make an assessment of her health. 
What is the latest case where this type of thing has been done? The latest one is the case of the New South Wales Police Force taping conversations which were used as evidence in court. It was reported in a Sydney newspaper that the State police prosecutor in the Central Court of Petty Sessions on 16th March 1971 had brought forward evidence to assist the police in prosecution. So being a diligent and awake member I wrote to the AttorneyGeneral some months later after the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had noted this point. I asked him whether he would tell me why we continue to ignore these obvious blatant breaches of the law of the country.  His  answer is a classic and I would like to read certain paragraphs so that it can in part be recorded in Hansard. First of all he refers to my letter regarding the tapping of telephone conversations by members of the New 
South Wales Police Force and advises me that he will give certain consideration to it. He said: 
The Government, at the time of introducing the legislation, decided that interception should be permitted for security purposes only: there should be no authorised interception for police or customs purposes. It will be necessary for me to consider, in the light of experience with the operation of the Act, the experience of similar legislation in other countries, and current crime patterns, whether or not it is desirable that the Act should be amended to permit police interception in certain areas of crime.  lt is appropriate to note here that the Queensland Government under the guidance of the recently retired State AttorneyGeneral,  Dr Delamoth  - I wish him well in his future career and commend him for his efforts while in office - brought in an Act which provided that listening to conversations by use of listening devices could be done only on the authorisation of a Supreme Court judge. I recognise that crime in the 1970s is a lot different to crime in the 1940s and that we must move to keep up with modern methods of crime. I believe the former Attorney-General in Queensland did the right thing in placing the authorisation to use these devices on the highest possible level. Continuing with the letter I received, the Attorney-General said: 
Areas I have in mind are extortion (witness the recent Qantas bomb hoax) - 
What a joke this is. I cannot imagine that no effort was made to record the voice of the elusive  Mr Brown.  I would imagine that it was -  kidnapping and attempts to prevent the course of justice. 
I seek leave of the House to incorporate this letter in Hansard. 
 1 must say that I find it rather strange listening to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  even though I am not questioning his sincerity, because he is a member of the Australian Labor Party and it is a Party based on a philosophy of socialism. We all know that socialism involves an enforced agreement in everything and that the architects of socialism - Sombart, Plenge, Marx and Trotsky - all believed in enforced agreement. I think it was Sombart who said that the state is a unity in which the individual has no rights but only duties. It is rather strange to hear members of the Opposition who belong to a party which attempts at all times to push on the individual the views that that particular party holds- 
I hear the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  interjecting over there. I remember him well from recent times during the Springbok tour leading those rowdy mobs through the streets of Sydney, the same people who would go to the matches and throw tennis balls filled with nails and glass onto the field in order to stop the game. All right, I know you are about to say you have been misrepresented. You had a lot to do with them and you built them all up. 
1 always obey your rulings,  Mr Chairman,  but honourable members opposite display strange schizophrenic tendencies abou! this matter. They wish to pose as champions of democracy but at the same time they are committed to socialism which means the very destruction of civil liberties. In my speech a few moments ago I was referring to a letter from the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in another place about the recording by the police of certain telephone conversations which ultimately were used as evidence in court proceedings. What 1 wish to refer to is the daddy of all sentences. I would remind the House that this letter was written on 24th September, a month after my letter of inquiry. It states: 
It is noi clear precisely how the tape recordings concerned were made, and therefore no decision as to a prosecution can be made at this stage. 
The actual incident took place prior to 16th March and well over 6 months later the Minister is not in a position to inform this Parliament how the tape recording was made. I wonder whether the Depart ment takes any notice of these cases which are reported in the newspapers or whether it has been a long held view that anyone can tape a telephone conversation and use it as evidence in court proceedings or, in fact, as they may choose to use it. I suggest that  Sir Garfield  Barwick in his chambers in Sydney must shudder every time he reads of the Federal Government allowing another instance of what could be regarded as a blatant breach of the Act which he had so much pride in introducing into this Parliament. When honourable members study what I read into Hansard earlier, they will realise that what the Minister says is that anyone, as long as he does not intercept a telephone conversation, can plug in at the hearing end and record the conversation. 
I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is the Attorney-General's representative in this chamber and a very cautious and clever man, is in the chamber and obviously will answer this point later. However, I ask the representative of the Attorney-General: Is it correct that in 1971 anyone can tape record a conversation through the receiving end of a telephone and be excused from having committed any breaches of the original Act? This is how I interpret and understand the significance of the words written by the Attorney-General. 
If honourable members have grown a tittle tired of the honourable member for Griffith raising this subject some 16 times over the last 4 years, 1 can assure them that I too am tired. All I am asking is that we do something about it. The years are going by and still nothing is done. I recall back in 1968 asking the then AttorneyGeneral whether he would put on the agenda of the Attorneys-General conference the question of the introduction of legislation to protect people against the use of listening devices. I suppose there is some consolation in the fact that now the 3 east coast States have at last introduced legislation to fulfil this need in our community. But I hope that the Commonwealth, the body which at times appears to be so progressive, does not lag behind and wait until the 6 States have done something. The Minister suggested in his letter that he is reviewing the whole situation. But how long does it take to come to a conclusion? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the Minister seen reports about a charter company called Qantair which proposes non-affinity charters to London and not to and from the United States of America where a multi-billion dollar tourist market exists? Will the Minister advise the Minister for Civil Aviation and Qantas Airways 
Ltd that Australia can no longer financially tolerate the dairy industry type of protection given to that company and will he do everything in his power to allow American charter carriers into Australia or get Qantair to move into the lucrative United States market? Finally, is it true that wc have consistently refused American charter companies landing rights while we awaited the birth of Qantair? 
Is the 
Prime Minister aware that the AttorneyGeneral has stated that his department is reviewing the terms under which a person can intercept or record a telephone conversation, as laid down in the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act? Is the Prime Minister aware that  Sir Garfield  Barwick, described eavesdropping as abhorrent and that  Sir Robert  Menzies was emphatic that its use should be restricted to matters involving national security? Will the Prime Minister assure the House that as Prime Minister he will not allow any extension of the Act without contemplation of the fact that a man without privacy is a man without anything? 
 The only thing that exceeds the sincerity of the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  is his facility for living in a dream world and those people who listen on another occasion when he is speaking will hear him referring to the need to spend more money on such things as pensions, national development and irrigation. He is hoping that the Australian people will fall for the suggestion put forward by the Australian Labor Party that if the Commonwealth takes over education it will be the end of all the problems. But the fact which everyone understands is that the Commonwealth has only a certain amount of money and this type of involvement with its weaknesses would have limited benefits. It is all very well for the honourable member to compare the Australian Universities Commission with a national schools commission which the amendment put forward by the Opposition tonight seeks to establish. But the facts of life are that the honourable member for Barton would not have any idea at all how many primary and secondary schools there were throughout Australia.  -  Mr Kennedy  - You do not know either. 
Anybody in this House could remind the honourable member for Barton and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  who just interjected, that there are just 18 universities throughout Australia. To compare the control of 18 universities by an independent organisation with the control of literally thousands of primary and secondary schools is ridiculous. Does the honourable member for Barton know where the Humpybong  State school is? He shakes his head. He does not know where I am talking about. He thinks I am talking about Arnhem Land. It is in the Petrie electorate on the Redcliffe peninsula. The honourable member puts forward these dreams as though they will solve ali the problems before us. 
The suggestion has been made tonight that what the Labor Party would have in store if it ever came to government would put an end to the problems of education; this is so much rubbish. A few weeks ago the totalled up expenditure required to meet the promises made during the socalled mini-campaign of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  exceeded $4 billion. On the day he spoke about education in Adelaide, when he told the Australian people it would not cost anything, he committed the expenditure of some S900m in one go. All of us, including the honourable member for Barton who feels that his electors might not be quite as sensible, know that there is only one way that the Government gets its money and that is out of the taxpayers' pockets. So what the honourable member is suggesting is that the Commonwealth should stop giving money to the States and should take over education. I am totally opposed to a concept of centralisation when it comes to primary and secondary education, and I say that without qualification. The honourable member for Barton wandered far and wide in the debate of a Bill which really seeks to make available to the States some $30m for the creation and construction of more library buildings. 
One goes back to the comment about teachers colleges. Many young teachers are leaving the profession today and I agree with the honourable member opposite that this is totally undesirable. I believe we should be more flexible in our attitude towards granting scholarships to people who are perhaps 30 or 35 years of age, not in the later stages of life but in the  maturer  years, and who decide they would like to become teachers. I believe quite sincerely that when a person of that age makes up his mind to choose a profession he has made up his mind on a solid basis. So many young people today go to a teachers training college only because they are able to get a teachers scholarship which gives them an opportunity to further their education. Many of them are hardly out of college, with a couple of years out in the world, when they realise it was not the profession for them. Then we have the controversial bond system under which they are held to their profession and at times pupils are subjected to teachers who are dissatisfied and only biding their time until the term of the bond expires. I do not believe that this is really in the best interests of education. I would like to return to my earlier point that there should be some reappraisal of the system of granting scholarships to older people who wish to enter the teaching profession. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in trying to remember his careless raptures, which I would suggest were probably many years ago, suggested that the creation of the concept of science blocks was purely a political move for the 1963 Federal election, which is some years ago now. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is shaking his head. He is in agreement with his colleague, the honourable member for Fremantle, but this concept of science blocks and libraries has made a tremendous contribution towards the education of young Australians. For members of the Opposition to wipe it off as being purely politically motivated is totally and utterly unworthy of them. 
It has been stated on many occasions that in this day and age when more knowledge and research are going into education the provision of these library facilities has enabled those children whom we might describe as exceptional students to take advantage of the facilities and on an equal basis with other children who also have these opportunities, to further their education. When these children eventually reach  university or other high planes of education, they are more prepared to shoulder the responsibility that face them. 
It gives me great pleasure to support the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this Bill. I look forward to the day when the Balmoral State High Scool in the eastern end of my electorate has a new library block. A great number of secondary schools now have these library facilities. This State secondary high school still has not. Some nongovernment schools are in the same situation. I hope that this $30m allocation will not be discontinued at the end of the next triennium. Looking at the situation in my own State and studying relevant figures - and there are still a great number of secondary schools in Queensland without Commonwealthfunded libraries - 1 notice that the allocation for Queensland with respect to non-government schools is $1.338m. This is surely not enough to cover the need that exists. I advocate here and now in these early stages that because many schools still require libraries the Government should not drop this scheme at the end of. the next triennium. 
I do not necessarily agree with the remarks of some members of the Opposition, but I would like to refer to the concept of providing libraries for primary schools. As I see it, there is a great waste in Commonwealth-provided libraries because, when students leave primary schools, only a small proportion of them have had the opportunity to become acquainted with the methods of use of a modern library. If we are to obtain full benefit of the great expenditure, which has been made available for building libraries - at the end of- the next triennium this amount will have reached some $57m - I think that we should be giving some thought to the lower levels of education so that these students are prepared for and are given an opportunity to understand the use of a library. When these students move on to secondary school level, virtually from the day that they arrive they will be able to take advantage of the library facilities offering. 
I know that it will be argued that so much additional expenditure would be required to meet the needs of primary schools than secondary schools, because of the number of primary schools. But without distinguishing between the needs of primary and secondary schools 1 would say that libraries for primary schools could be on a much smaller scale but should embody methods to give effect to the necessity to train young people to use these libraries. 
In conclusion, I state that no member on this side of the House could possibly be expected to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle. The facts of life are that if this Bill is not passed through this Parliament in this session, the expenditure of Commonwealth funds on libraries for secondary schools will cease next year because the money will not be available. I am quite sure, that the people of Australia will recognise that the amendment moved tonight represents a political ploy and a cheap political trick by the Australian Labor Party to try to help the Leader of the Opposition out of his troubles in relation to- education. I remind members of the Opposition that in recent weeks we have seen constant battles between the Leader of the Opposition and the Minister for Education and Science, over .this most vital question. I can hardly recall a time when the Leader of the Opposition has been as touchy on any question as he has been on the question of education. Perhaps it is because he spent millions in a half-hour television discussion in Adelaide on this  topic and then suddenly realised the implications of his rather exaggerated point of view. The Minister for Education and Science wasted no time in realising the errors that the Leader of the Opposition had made and quickly followed up the subject. 
I do not know what is in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition. I am quite sure that very few members of his own Party have any idea. But what I do know - and I know it positively - is that the Austraiian people will not fall for cheap and unworthy promises from the Opposition but will support this Government in its plans to enable education to continue to progress in the best way that it can and to make available facilities of the type proposed in this legislation to the children of Australia in the years to come. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House  of  Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as pari of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are  of  such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And thai some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government lake immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state.' All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Territories, ls he aware that the present educational system in the Territory of Papua New Guinea is such as would enable the cargo cult to open a school and qualify for financial aid? Is it correct that the present policy dictates that the Government will not establish a school if a religious' group is already operating" one in the district? While recognising that the Christian churches have made a commendable, selfmotivated contribution in the past in the Territory of Papua New Guinea does the Minister foresee the danger of this policy leading to the creation of an intolerant nation divided on religious differences? 
Prior to the speech of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  we listened to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who indulged in what one might say a careless rapture. But it is a long time since he has had a careless rapture. It is appropriate to remind tha House that only recently the Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  removed the honourable member for Grayndler from his position of shadow minister with responsibilities in conection with the handling of the Labor Party's side of immigration. ] recall the Leader of the Opposition making the comment that the honourable member for Grayndler would be a lot happier looking after matters within the Electoral Act. Everybody in the House knows that the honourable member for Grayndler would like to look after the Electoral Act so that he could bring about a distribution which would wipe out the seat of the Leader of the Opposition. This is just a fact of life. The honourable member for Grayndler is laughing and has turned the other way because he has gone red with embarrassment. It is notable that every time the honourable member for Grayndler speaks in this House the Leader of the Opposition walks out, as does his staff. Every time the Leader of the Opposition speaks in this House the honourable member for Grayndler walks out. Yet this paragon of virtue stands in the House today and tries to present to the Australian people who had the misfortune to be listening to him a few minutes ago the impression that the Liberal Party is divided. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you as a member of the coalition Parties know as well as I do that the Libera) Party today stands united and with a common front. But we all know that the Australian Labor Party is split with rifts. One never knows who is its official spokesman for anything in this place these days. One can go to Adelaide, Brisbane and other capital cities to hear what is said by the Leader of the Opposition. But if one refers to what the Leader of the Opposition said in some place some other members of his Party say: 'No, our policy was written in Launceston', or talk about something which was written in caucus. The Labor Party is a farcical Party. After 22 years it is still unfit to rule. Next year the Labor Party will have lost .10 elections. 
Already the Leader of the Opposition is covering his tracks. He is looking for friends because we all know that when Labor does not win the next election fearless Freddie will be back in favour steering the destiny of this nation insofar as he can as Labor's spokesman on its immigration policy. But I have already wasted enough time talking about the alternative government because it may be many years before Labor becomes the Government. 
I wish to refer to a matter which is of vital importance to Australia. 1 would like to express my congratulations to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  for his announcement earlier this week about the reduction of fares to Europe by Qantas Airways Ltd. Often Ministers of the Crown reply on departmental heads for advice, but on this occasion I think that Australia is extremely lucky that  Senator Robert  Cotton was appointed Minister for Civil Aviation. Without that senator I do not believe that Australia would have moved in the direction of expanding our charter flights or into other areas in which markets have been expanded. I believe that these changes have resulted from the Minister's determination. 
I must level some criticism on the subject of charter flights. The Minister has announced only recently that Qantas is to start charter flights to the United Kingdom. But the facts of life are that the great tourist market for Australia still lies in the United States. Tourists from the United States have the money to enable them to come to this country and they look with interest towards Australia when deciding on where to go for a holiday. Qantas has had a history in world aviation conferences of opposing every suggestion for a reduction in fares which would make it easier For people to fly throughout the world. My suggestion is that this policy, by discouraging tourists, has contributed in the long term to the loss of millions and millions of dollars for Australia, lt is appropriate that I remind the House that because of the stubbornness of the Department of Civil Aviation in respect of reaching a conclusion on charter flights we have completely lost this year the 15 charter flights that were to come from the United States. Next year we can expect none because it takes a lot of time to prepare charters and sell them to people. The applications for 19-73 - that sounds a long way away, particularly to some members of the Opposition who will be back in their old jobs at that time - have already been presented and the Australian Government or the Department is still dillydallying in coming to a decision. The 
Department just cannot make up its mind. The deadline for receipt of permission for 1973 is next month. If we do not come up with a conclusion by next month we will be gone once again - but gone for good. 
It is appropriate to compare our situation with that in New Zealand because New Zealand had stuck by Australia in the past. New Zealand has now realised that we were dragging it down with our outdated over-cautious policies. That country has now approved 15 charter flights from the United States. Yet we in Australia are just talking about a meeting at the end of next month which will be the beginning of a series of meetings to discuss this question. The charter operators in the United States have every reason to be disillusioned. I believe that they have lost faith with the treatment which has been meted out by the Australian Government. I do not believe that we have been far-sighted enough. I just say thank heavens for Australia that  Senator Cotton  was appointed as Minister for Civil Aviation.  Senator Cotton,  who has a background of business experience, is a man who is prepared to step forward and take a risk 
We have had the announcement that Australia's, new charter company is to be called Qantair. I would like to suggest that it is time Australia realised that the word Qantas really does not mean much throughout the world, although it means a lot to people in Australia. When we consider that Qantas attracts only 0.3 per cent of over 7 million passangers who travel on North Atlantic air routes it is obvious that we are not as well known as we could be. I believe that Australia is well known throughout the world. It is about time that we took a close look at the name we are using for our international airline. I suggest that it should be called something like Air Australia or Australian Air so that people throughout the world would get the message. Some people in Australia indulge in nostalgic feelings about how the name Qantas was derived from the old Queensland and Northern Territory Aerial Services. I admit that this means something to about one half of one percent of Australians but to the rest of the world it means nought. There are company names such as American Airlines, Japan Airlines, Air Thai, Air New Zealand and BOAC. These names actually mean something. But the words Qantas or Qantair mean absolutely nothing. 
Our nation's reputation is good enough to attract more business to our airline. Those of us who have been out of Australia and who face reality realise that when we see names such as Qantas in Los Angeles, the east coast of the United States or Jamaica it sounds like the airline comes from some South American banana republic. Again, I commend the Minister for Civil Aviation for his new approach to this subject. 
I must have certain qualities that I have never recognised, because I was able to talk to  Mr To  Liman for some 2 hours in Port Moresby without any trouble. I also had the opportunity to talk with  Mr Tammur  on a flight to Lae. That talk lasted a couple of hours. So perhaps I have been a privileged Liberal in that respect. When we are discussing the Papua New Guinea Bill tonight I think it is appropriate to recall that Australia's involvement in this part of the world has been intense only in recent years. Just prior to the Second World War, only 500 children were in administration schools and about 90,000 in the mission schools. Today, there are some 223,000 children of the 359,000 children in the 7 to 12 year age group attending primary schools. Still, 60 per cent are unable to obtain a place in secondary schools. Honourable members may recall that today I addressed a question to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes).  Part of the question was: 
Is it correct that the present policy- 
I was speaking in relation to education -   . . dictates that the Government will not establish a school  if  a religious group  is  already, operating in the district? 
I went on to ask: 
While recognising that the Christian churches have made a commendable, self-motivated contribution in the past in the Territory of Papua New Guinea, does the Minister foresee the danger of this policy leading to the creation of an intolerant nation divided on religious differences? 
Quite properly, the Minister reminded me and the House that this was more a matter for consideration of the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea and he assured me that he would refer the question to the House and eventually pass the answer on to me. I wish to make it quite plain in the House tonight that this is not the first time I have raised this issue. On 26th October this year, at about this hour of the evening, I made a speech on this matter. I believe with great sincerity that the policy which has existed in the past and which has contributed to increasing the educational opportunities is outmoded. Under the present system, as I pointed out in the question, if there is a school established in an area the Government refrains from establishing a school and the children in the area only have the opportunity of attending a school run by either the Methodist church, the Catholic church, the Anglican church, the Lutheran church or quite a number of other religious groups. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who is sitting at the table, spoke earlier tonight. I believe that, with the exception of a few sentences, he made quite a good and thoughtful contribution on the question of national unity. I would like to state my belief: I do not believe that the educational programme that presently is being followed in the Territory is contributing to the establishment of national unity. It is interesting to note the comments that I made in the House 2 months ago when I said: 
The missions have tended generally to operate at the purely local level and hence are more village oriented than are schools in the Administration network. Village pressures have tended to cause missions to expand their facilities horizontally rather than vertically. Mission policy has been aimed at preparing the majority  of  pupils  for  village life. 
Then I referred to the fact that Alan Randall's 'Reorganisation of Education in Papua New Guinea' covered this matter quite clearly. I made known the fact that he is an officer of the United Church. I went on to say: 
This emphasis upon the village has worked against the building up of a national character and national attitudes in the indigenous population. In particular, political education has suffered. This was emphasised recently by the United Nations mission which visited the Territory earlier this year. 
I assured the  Deputy  Government Whip that I would curtail this speech tonight. However in that speech 2 months ago I went on to mention  Mr Daniel  Kunert who is a man of the New Guinea Lutheran Mission-Missouri Synod. I referred to his paper. I said: 
In the paper to which  I  have referred  Mr Kunert  said that schools have also been used by various missions to cause divisions within the country, setting denomination against denomination. While this has been true only to a limited extent, it is something which a country preparing for unity and independence cannot afford to tolerate. 
I agree with the system of giving people a choice of the types of education available for their children. I firmly believe that one of the by-products of this system in Australia is the creation of divisions within our community. But the advantages of the dual education system are such that they more than submerge the disadvantages. There is a difference between our dual education system in Australia and that of the Territory of Papua New Guinea. The people up there hardly have a choice. I really believe that in the long term it will be to that country's detriment. Fulfilling my undertaking to the  Deputy  Whip, I will resume my seat. 
Considering that Papua New Guinea is moving towards independence more rapidly than most people imagine and the fact that this will increase the importance of localisation in all possible areas of responsibility, I ask the Minister for the Army: To what extent is the Army of Papua New Guinea localised? I refer, of course to the officers and other ranks. Is he concerned that the Pacific Islands Regiment may develop into an elite in Papua New Guinea particularly in any post-independence situation? 
1 think that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  was, to say the least, a little unfair at the end of his speech when he attacked the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  If there is anyone in Australia who is genuinely concerned about the effects of the drug problem upon Australia as a nation, it is the Minister for Customs and Excise. I grant to the honourable member for Maribyrnong the right to hold a view as to whether Australia is approaching the drug problem in the correct manner, but I repeat: It was unfair for the honourable member to attack the Minister in such strong language. 
This is not the first occasion on which I have spoken on this subject in this Parliament. While doing some research I found that nearly 3 years ago, on 27th March 1969, I made a speech in which I drew the attention of the House to what 
I regarded as the inadequate penalties for drug offences pertaining in Australia. I made certain comparisons between Australia and the United States of America. Having read what I said at that time, I suppose that my views have moderated slightly. I have now spent 2 months in the United States and listened to various points of view expressed as to the danger of drugs. 1 recall living in San Francisco for 4 days with a number of young people, a great percentage of whom were actually smoking pot and a number of whom were on the harder drugs. I was fortunate in having witnessed the situation and having talked to these young people. Today too many people, not only in this Parliament but all over Australia, denounce drug taking without ever having the advantage of even knowing somebody who had partaken of some form of drug. At the time when I spoke in this Parliament in 1969 I made known my view, that whilst I recognised that each individual had the right to decide his own destiny, in an unqualified manner I was opposed completely to drug pedlars, and that philosophy still holds. I pointed out then - and it is interesting to recall it to the House - that the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  either late in 1968 or early in 1969 directed that a conference to discuss drug and narcotic taking should be convened. When we look back on history the former Prime Minister will be given credit for his contribution in this, direction at a time when others were not taking much notice of what was happening. 
The Australian Labor Party has moved an amendment this afternoon. I believe that in an enlightened approach to this subject one really, cannot condemn the Opposition for its suggestion that certain of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Aouse should be followed. I could not reject the submission that more treatment should be made available to people and, to use the word of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who expressed the views of a country man, are 'hooked'. But I do believe that this is definitely the responsibility of the States. The introduction of this legislation has been necessitated because of the attitudes of some of the magistrates and judges who have handled various drug cases in the past. I wonder whether or not various State governments - perhaps some members of the Parliament may be able to give a run down on exactly what the State governments have done in this field - look at this as a matter which does not hold many votes and therefore they let the ball pass through to the keeper. They will wait until the day when there are so many addicts around and a great public outcry arises for the establishment of certain hospitals and centres at which these people can be cared for and, if possible, restored to health. I do make an earnest plea to the various State governments. I may be accused of being a centralist but they should give more consideration to the treatment aspect and make more opportunities available to those who are seeking help. 
I imagine that IS years ago the number of drug addicts or people who were accustomed to taking drugs in Australia was but a handful. Unfortunately today the world is becoming smaller because of faster transport. Australia is becoming more exposed to worldly attitudes. The drug problem is growing faster and faster. It is high time that we introduced legislation to counter those people who have been able to slip through the net because of the weakness of our legislation. 
The House is aware that I have expressed great and constant opposition to the extension of the rights of police forces, etc.. to tap telephones on all but the most important occasions. I have no hesitation in stating that when it comes to the apprehension of drug traffickers and the elusive  Mr Big,  who was mentioned by the honourable member for Kennedy, I would be prepared to yield my stand on telephone tapping. I qualify that statement by saying that permission to eavesdrop on telephone conversations should be granted only by the Attorney-General, the Comptroller-General of Customs and Excise or the Minister for Customs and Excise. I regard drug trafficking as a serious enough subject to cause me to yield on that point. No doubt exists that there are people in this world who are growing fat and rich because they are taking advantage of this weakness of certain sections of the population. I believe that any opportunity to catch and to imprison these people should be availed of. The honourable member for Kennedy proposed that they should be put to death. Some people may regard that as being too kind. Perhaps life imprisonment might be a better proposition. 
I draw to the attention of the House the fact that in 1965 in the United States of America the Johnson Administration amended the Drug Abuse Control Amendments. A section was inserted which provided that the sale, barter, exchange, giving away or transfer of any narcotic drug or marihuana to a person under 18 years of age would attract a penalty of imprisonment of not less than 10 years and not more than 40 years, and in addition a fine of not more than $20,000 might be imposed. This legislation talks in terms of a penalty of $2,000 and $4,000 depending on the seriousness as related to the quantities of drugs carried at the time of apprehension. I wonder wonder whether we in this enlightened age are going as far as we could. I do not think that too much can be done to stop those people who are using the weaknesses of other people to fill their pockets. There is the addict who is caught on the drug and there is the other person who is out to make addicts and to build up his business so that he grows wealthier. The latter has no concern for individuals.  His  only concern is for himself. I do not believe that we can do too much to apprehend a person of this type. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  made some comparisons earlier which showed that in the United Kingdom there was one addict to every 18,500 persons while in the United States there was one addict to every 700 to 1,000 persons. Surely no-one can jump to the conclusion that, because the United States has harsh laws, this level of addiction is the direct result. I think that it is unfair or impractical to compare that situation to that in Australia. The situation in the United States is entirely different from that in the United Kingdom. I hold the attitude of society in Australia to be more akin to that of society in the United States than of society in the United Kingdom. 
We are doing the right thing in nipping this problem in the bud. So much of the U.S. drug supply is grown in the fields of Mexico and is smuggled into the United 
States. Australia has been fortunate in the past. But I am worried because the Minister for Customs and Excise stated that only 15 per cent of all drugs actually smuggled into Australia are confiscated by bis Department. Even if the world average confiscation of drugs is 10 per cent, I think that Australia should be doing better. If I belonged to any force, be it a customs or a police force, I do not think that I would be overly proud if the level of success was that only 15 per cent of all drugs smuggled into Australia were confiscated. 
If the Minister considers this problem to be of such grave consequence as he has suggested - I am sure that he does - and ff it is as serious as members on this side of the House in particular believe it to be, it is time we realised that it does not matter how much we spend on building up and training our customs staff if we do not adopt sterner measures to confiscate drugs. I say to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is at the table, that it is about time we woke up to ourselves in relation to our slipshod handling of overseas visitors to Australia. I have been in and out of this country on a number of occasions. I have watched the way in which customs officers operate. It is a wonder that 15 per cent of smuggled drugs are confiscated when we consider the way in which our customs men handle people. The policies that we have adopted mean that tourists from some overseas countries suffered 2 minutes inconvenience at the customs gate before they are passed through customs. A selective system is applied under which, one in, say, every 6 is checked. 
I recall very clearly an incident which occurred while I was travelling from Acapulco to San Antonio. It was known that T was a member of the Australian Parliament. I had the green passport. The person who checked me said: ' I am sorry, sir, but it happens to everyone'. T said: That is fair enough'. A very careful examination was made of my possessions. The point I am making is that every person who came in before or after me was subjected to the same very close scrutiny. It is about time we took off the gloves at the gates to Australia. It is about time we started taking this problem seriously. Not too long ago we had the case of a diplo mat from an African country being given his marching orders from this country because he was guilty of bringing in a great swag of a particular drug. Because a person is a diplomat nobody touches him. I appreciate that diplomats are closely screened in the early days but, as they are no different to anybody else, why should they receive preferential treatment? They are no different to members of Parliament and they are no different to the ordinary John Citizen. They are people the same as everyone else. Just as some people have a weakness to succumb to the opportunity to make easy money, so do certain diplomats. I am not saying that diplomats are responsible for the importation of all the illegal drugs which are coming into this country, but I do not believe that anyone should be exempted from scrutiny because of the position which he holds. Drug addiction is the most vile form of human misery which can be inflicted upon any person. I have read articles recently about heroin being mixed in with marihuana in order to hook tha user of marihuana on heroin without them knowing that they are on heroin. I despise this practice. 1 remind the House that the Opposition has not appeared in good light in recent months as a political party. While I was in the United States of America I heard people of far greater authority than any member of the Opposition expressing their uncertainty as to the long term effects of marihuana. Tt is unfortunate that in the last couple of years we have seen a division in the attitude of the Opposition and tha Government in this Parliament to the drug problem. The Australian Labor Party has been presenting itself as the enlightened political party and the party that knows all the answers to questions about drugs while the Government Parties have been ultraconservative in their approach. 
Tha honourable member is on another trip. We are told that the ultra-conservatives sit on this side of the chamber and the radicals sit on the other side of the chamber. I believe that the Australian Labor Party has been totally irresponsible in its actions. I am all in favour of a proper examination of the available information, but I do not think that some of the comments which have been made by members of the Opposition make it any easier for parents to bring up their children to believe that certain things are good while others are not. I conclude by saying to the Opposition that if it ever wants to govern this country it will have to change a lot of its ideas because the way in which it behaves in opposition at present does not give the Australian electorate great hope as to how it will behave and how responsible it will be in government. 
 Very briefly, because that is all the amendment deserves, I question very seriously the sincerity of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)- 
I speak as the first member on the Government side who I suppose has stood out to be counted in the last few weeks. It took many weeks to deal with this case. I have listened and watched with great interest in the last few days as suggestions have been made that the Committee of Privileges, because it was adopted from the British system at the beginning of the century, is completely unacceptable. The Committee was partially denigrated. I contend that the Committee will be much better when we have our own setup. However, up to 1970 it has been acceptable to most, but suddenly it becomes unacceptable. 
I support the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  all the way when he suggests that it is unjust to say that because he worked for the 'Daily Telegraph' he came down with a vote of not guilty. This is an unworthy comment from any person. I refer the House to how the honourable member voted on 12th October in the case of the letter that had been printed in the 'Australian' claiming that to get anything done one had to give members of Parliament $10,000. On that case Messrs Brown, Donald Cameron, Crean, Jarman, Turnbull and Whitlam all voted together, whilst  Mr Allan  Fraser voted the other way despite the fact that the editor of the newspaper concerned had agreed that what was involved was a contempt of the Parliament. So, to suggest that the honourable member for EdenMonaro is motivated by nostalgia is absolutely wrong. Let me refer to the findings and the recommendations in this case and read them in part. We found:  (a) That the article published . . . constitutes a contempt  of  the House  of  Representatives, and 
That  Mr A.  D. Reid as writer of the article and  Mr D.  R. McNicoll as Editorinchief, Australian Consolidated Press Ltd, are both guilty of a contempt of the House of Representatives in that they were responsible for the publication of a newspaper report which incorrectly described the proceedings of the House .' . . 
The point  1  wish to make is that nowhere in the proceedings did anyone come forward and present evidence to suggest that members of the Australian Labor Party walked out. I would not care whether they were members of the Liberal Party, the Labor Party or the Country Party; the statement was made that men walked out. 
The honourable member for EdenMon.aro talked of intimidation at a particular meeting. I am' sorry that he raised that question; but I assure him that he did not have intimidation on his own. I know another member of the Committee who was subjected to intimidation. On a number of occasions during the latter stages of the trial, or whatever one might like to call it - 'the preparation of the Committee's findings' is probably the correct term - that member was told: 'Reid must not be found guilty'. I believe that that is a condemnation of this Parliament and a wicked condemnation of members' ability to free themselves from the yoke of politics. 1 might say that I mentioned this matter to the  Chairman  of the Privileges Committee many weeks ago. So, 1 cannot be accused of suddenly resorting to this statement as a bad loser. 
Journalism, like politics or anything else, has its perils. Members of the Australian Journalists Association rely on various methods to gather together their information. No-one is beyond making a mistake. To be someone who can always be trusted does not mean that one is incapable of making a mistake. If honourable members read carefully the evidence and crossexamination of  Mr McNicoll  they will see where he refused even to consider a withdrawal of the statement that had been printed in his newspaper. 
I come to the question: What exactly is privilege? I do not regard privilege as something that belongs to me or to individual members of this House. It is something that belongs to the people we represent. Privilege continues on. Although we are removed and replaced, it is still here as something belonging to the people. The report of the Committee sets out quite clearly what constitutes a breach of privilege. I remind the House that when this matter was referred to the Privileges Committee we members of that Committee had to work on terms of reference which had been laid down at the beginning of Federation in Australia and which went back into the last three or four centuries. Let me remind honourable members - some of those on my own side as well as some of those on the Opposition side - of exactly what constitutes a breach' of privilege. I quote the following from the report - and I will read it carefully: 
A writing which reflects on the character or proceedings of the House or its members, or- 
I ask honourable members to note this one: 
A publication of proceedings of the House which is false or perverted, or partial and injurious, or 
A written imputation  affecting  the character or conduct of a Member or Members of the House, or 
A misrepresentation of the proceedings of Members in the Parliament. 
Honourable members can take their pick of either requirement 2 or requirement 4. It constitutes exactly what the Committee found in its original or later findings. 1 am far from happy with the fact whereby we had this situation of the matter being recommitted. 1 defend staunchly the  Chairman  of the Committee of Privileges.  Mr Drury,  who at no time, convened a meeting without attempting to sec that ail members of the Committee could be there. It must be remembered that at times Bills are presented to the House and members of the Committee, such as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and various other members are required to speak to them and to reply to submissions made. It is a very difficult task to convene and carry out properly the proceedings of the 
Committee during the times of parliamentary sittings. Perhaps the matter of whether the Committee should meet only outside of parliamentary sitting hours and in a proper, uninterrupted manner should be given consideration. The present practice is not conducive to arriving at a decision free of controversy, which I am sure everyone in this place would prefer. 
I do not question  Mr Reid's  belief that his article was correct. If one was to read carefully the minutes of  Mr Reid's  evidence, one would see that he believed what he said. But with respect, 1 suggest that he was badly misled. I know that many journalists depend on certain people as sources of information. After a time, and after the passing of a certain amount of information, they might regard a source as being reliable or unreliable. This has nothing to do with the Committee or the Parliament. But if such journalists rely on people, whether they have reason to rely on them or not. and they suddenly find themselves writing the wrong thing, J regard that as a peril of occupation and an indication that perhaps more checking was required. I repeat my view, and the view of every member of the Committee, including even the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  - as contained in the minutes of the proceedings of the various meetings - that no member of the Labor Opposition walked out of the Parliament. 
The honourable member is rather unusual. Each and every one of us in this Parliament has been misrepresented by the Press at some time. I recall another unusual person named Mungo Mccallum writing an article some weeks ago which reported certain events in the Parliament. I could have easily stood in my place and taken a point of order on misrepresentation and so on. But honourable members are used to this and no-one gets greatly inflamed unless he feels that an injustice has been done. The facts are that under the present system any member of the Press is liable at any time to become the subject of an inquiry such as the one just, completed. Many articles are written which are inaccurate. Perhaps they are only partially inaccurate but a thing is either true or false and, as 1 said earlier, once the Committee found that a breach had been committed or that the article was false it had no alternative hut to come forward with the present suggestion. 
Every effort has been made over the last few weeks to denigrate the findings of this Committee. I cannot help but wonder whether, if some other journalist had been involved, the same lengths would have been reached in an effort to bring about a different decision. These are questions which can only be asked because no-one really knows. I reiterate that it is time that we had a Committee of Privileges system operating in a way that would remove us from the areas of criticism which unfortunately have arisen this time, particularly because of the recommittals. Finally I hope that every honourable member of this Parliament will be objective when voting on the amendment because if justice is to be done it must bc done for all and not just for special people. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that the New Zealand Government has now granted landing rights to American charier companies wishing to take thousands of tourists to New Zealand? Is it correct that until now New Zealand stood firmly with Australia in opposition to charter carriers? Does the fact that New Zealand is going it alone cast dark shadows across the wisdom of our present day policy? Finally, is it correct that thousands of American tourists have been refused permissionto land in Australia in 1972 and that the tours for 1973 will be cancelled at the end of next January if permission is not granted? Can Australia continue to be the ostrich of the Pacific? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to  a  statement made by a former Attorney-General on 26th August 1970 that a major consideration in the decision not to prosecute  Mrs Margaret  Berman for her infringement of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act was because  Mrs Berman  was suffering from the terminal stages of a fatal disease. 
If so, did the Attorney-General see a recent television programme in which  Mrs Berman,  displayed calculated evasiveness when asked about the condition of her health. 
Will the Attorney-General review the Berman case to ascertain whether a health problem still exists or whether a prosecution can now proceed. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that when tanned kangaroo pelts are exported to the United States of America that country applies a 17 per cent import duty and allows a duty free entry only if the pelts are in the pickled raw state? Does the Minister agree that this could be to the detriment of Australian tanneries? Can the Minister advise the industry what the United States is protecting by the imposition of that duty? Will the Minister consider the recommendation that only processed pelts will in future be exported, thus ensuring tremendous benefits and increasing the monetary value of this sought after, purely Australian product? 
Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that it is unreal to talk of troop de-escalation in Vietnam and at the same time of civil aid which has been necessary to sustain the advantage gained through military action? Is the Minister aware that a group led by a very high official of another Commonwealth department recently visited South Vietnam and is likely to submit certain recommendations on the future of our medical teams practising in that country? Will the Minister assure the House that this form of civil aid will not be withdrawn, recognising of course that the safety of such teams is of primary consideration? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of (he undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian - people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present end particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray- 
Petition received. 
 I intend to be brief in supporting the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I have had dealings with the AttorneyGeneral's Department in the past. I understand, while the honourable member for La Trobe may not, how the AttorneyGeneral's Department takes months and months and at times years to come forward with what some may consider very simple proposals. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  expressed some doubts about whether State courts would be able to accept as evidence tape recordings of radio or television programmes. I want to use this occasion to draw to his attention the fact that the Victorian courts used tapes, which were used in contravention of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act, in the Margaret Berman abortion inquiry. At that time this was definitely contravening the Act but the AttorneyGeneral said that nothing would be done. So I assure the Postmaster General that this matter will present no problems. Without supporting the Opposition completely at this time, and giving the Minister some chance to reconsider the matter, I hope the assurance that the Minister has given this Parliament means that should the AttorneyGeneral's Department come forward in the very near future with a decision on this question he will not prolong amendments to this legislation, because, as the honourable members for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and La Trobe said, people are entitled to this type of protection. 
In conclusion I would like to express my amazement at the concern which has been voiced by various members of the Opposition at the thought of the news media falling into the hands of a few. It was only two or three nights ago, or last week, that one of the Ministers, during a debate, made a reference to the fact that the Labour Party wished for true blue-blooded, or red-blooded, socialism, and many members on the other side said: 'Hear, hear!' in utter agreement with the Minister. The fact is that true blue-blooded or red-blooded socialism dictates that the various media businesses should fall into hands of one. To honourable members opposite private enterprise is anathema. If control is in the hands of government it is all right, but if it is in the hands of private enterprise it is all wrong. Honourable members opposite refer to the $ 19m profits made by the news media but they fail to take away the 46 per cent tax component which has to be deducted from those profits. They do not make any mention of the millions and millions of dollars which have been invested throughout Australia by private companies and by people such as those sitting in the gallery, who have invested small amounts of money and backed these companies and who as a result of their investment are earning an income. The Labor Party constantly niggles away at everything that is successful. I believe that the honourable member for Franklin is one who sees the benefit of a dual system, but he is very much alone on the opposite side of the chamber in that regard. The stories about his reconsidering his decision to remain in the Labor Party have a lot of truth, from what I hear. He is one man who recognises that two systems can work together. Let us hear no more of this castigating and tearing to pieces of every private enterprise company that has ever been successful. 
 It always suits the arguments of members of the Opposition, including the emotional honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  to completely gloss over the facts relating to national service. The honourable member for Sturt and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  carry on here as if a young man had no choice in life other than to face being called up. The truth is that if he wants to opt out he can join the Citizen Military Forces, and he does not even have to face the risk of being called up for national service. But I do not wish to dwell on that subject tonight. 
The honourable member for Sturt made reference tonight to a slump in the popularity of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  If he catches up with the figures, he will learn that the popularity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  also has taken a dive. Many members on this side of the House are aware of the quiet whisperings on the other side of the House to the effect: 'It is time we did something about our Leader'. One looks back to a publication written by  Mr Cyril  Wyndham when he wrote for the first time 'his version of  a  controversial and stormy period in the Australian Labor Party' and told of 'the horrors of working with Whitlam' - horrors such as those the honourable member for Sturt gives us. The caption reads: 
Whitlam: He had acquaintances, hangers-on and carpetbaggers, but not one genuine friend. 
Members of the Opposition pretend here tonight that they are an alternative government; that they - members of the Party that has won only 3 elections in about 53 years - are ready for office after 22 years out of government; that the time has come for them to cross the desert; that they have arrived. I assure them that they have not arrived. The quality of the people in their party is such that the Australian public will never buy them. 
I wish to draw attention to a newspaper clipping. Normally I do not refer to newspaper clippings, but this one of last year states that  Senator Georges  told the ViceChancellor of the University of Queensland to 'close the university for next week'. What audacity! What cheek members of the Labor Party have, when they think they can go to the vice-chancellor of a university and say: 'Close your university'. The people outside, the workers whom they claim to represent, the people who vote for us year in and year out, are the ones who supply the money to open the university so that the young people of today can have a better opportunity for education and then plough back into our society some of the knowledge they have gained. But members of the Labor Party go along and say: 'Close down the university for next week*. 
Let us look at this Labor Party. The Courier-Mail' of 29th July last referred to  Mr Tom  Burns, the man who scuttled the ALP ship. He got out of it. He went for a seat in the Queensland Parliament because he knew he would never win one in the Australian Parliament. He has fragmented the Labor Party in Queensland which is completely topsy turvy because of him. If you ask any good Labor men in Queensland they will whisper to you quietly - because they are frightened of losing their endorsement - that Burns is a - it starts with 'B' also. Let us see what  Mr Burns  prescribes as the necessary prerequisites for a Labor candidate. This is what he told a trade union congress in the Brisbane Trades Hall on 28th July last year: 
We need you to back us up now and to help us select the best candidates for future elections. The real remedy is in your hands. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  had better watch out because he might be next.  Mr Burns  continued: 
We need politicians who will carry out the party's platforms. 
That was a great display of independent mind. He went on: 
If you put people in a Parliament and they don't do this, then don't ring me to complain. 
We need some decent candidates in the  next  election whose hearts are in the Labor movement. 
I feel like crying. What a disgusting exhibition. That was the great leader of the Labor Party,  Mr Burns.  I am glad that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is here tonight because we come back now to the football games again. Referring to the way  Mr Burns  reacted after the Labor Party lost the by-elections in Queensland under the headline 'Labor probe into two poll defeats' the 'Courier-Mail' stated: 
The Federal ALP  president (Mr T. Burns)  said yesterday it appeared that the fascism of the State Government in belting down peaceful protestors had won the favour of electors. 
He made no apologies. He said: They are fascists!. That is how the Labor Party takes an electoral defeat. Let us go one step further and talk about a most shameful demonstration, a sell-out of our nation. It almost passed unnoticed at the end of last year.  Mr Bart  Lourigan, who was then acting general secretary of the Labor Party in Queensland wrote to the United Nations about our country. This report was published in the United Nations. Remember that he is a member of the Australian Labor Party. If it were the Somali Labor Party I might believe it, but it is not. He wrote a letter saying that the Labor Party would continue to struggle against racial discrimination and was firmly committed to oppose any sports team sent to Australia, etc. But in that letter, to make a quick precis, he said: 'Out here they are a mob of racists.' To my recollection, I have never before seen anyone in this country who would write to some world body and sell out his country. This man wrote to the 
United Nations selling us out. Do honourable members consider that that was worthy? 
Let us come right back to home right back here where we are tonight. Only a week or 10 days ago the Brisbane 'Courier Mail I might say that it carries more information than the 'Sunraysia Daily' carries and one can rely on it much more - carried a story titled 'ALP vote sack him.' Who was it talking about? The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  should sit down. He is not being demoted any further. He can relax. He has already had his chop. We all know what happened to him when he supported Australia's immigration policy Kapow! The article was referring to another man in the Labor Party - the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley). 
I do not believe that it is.  Sir, but  it meant 'the end!'. As I was saying in this very serious contribution, 2 weekends ago there was an overwhelming vote in Victoria that the honourable member for Fremantle was unsuitable for his job. I wonder why honourable members in this House are prepared to hide behind the genuine appearance which the honourable member for Fremantle presents and the votes he undoubtedly wins because of his sincerity, knowing that when the Victorian group moves it spells death for anybody. Even the Leader of the Opposition went out to reform them but accepted the fact that he could not, and joined them. One day he was saying that they were witless men; the next day he was accepting his orders from those witless men. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  I am not vindictive by heart. I have made these remarks because these things had to be said after the terrible contribution this evening from the emotional honourable member for Sturt. Every time the Labor Party is in trouble he gets up, screams, yells and carries on, and his own Party sits back in horror and disappointment but cajoling and egging him on. I would suggest that that is not the way for the honourable member for Sturt to carry on. I am quite sure that, come the next election, the honourable member for Sturt, like many other members of the Opposition, will be back where he came from and this Parliament will again be blessed with men of ability and discretion. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio)- The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  during the course of his speech, I think unintentionally, clearly implied that I had avoided military service. I think it should be made clear that in 1939 I was 8 years of age. I do not think the Army took recruits at that age. In 1945 I was 14 years of age. [ do not think military service is usually commenced at that age. My father died as a result of war injuries, so I think I did suffer because of the war. Since 1945 no military engagement involving the defence of Australia has taken place, so I think any other military service would be irrelevant. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. As I represent the electorate in which the Brisbane abattoir is situated I ask: Has the Minister seen reports of a claim made in the United States Congress by  Mr J.  Melcher,  a Democrat, that Australian meat was dirty? Can the Minister advise the House whether or not during the Vietnam war any Americans who came to Australia on rest and recreation leave were lost because of meat poisoning or  whether or not over the years a great number of Australians have died as  a  result of inadequate health requirements being applied to the production of meat? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition from certain citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the amount allocated for Overseas Aid by the government does not befit Australia's standing in the world as a developed nation. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House urge the Government to increase Overseas Aid from its present rate of 0.6 per cent to 1 per cent of the Gross National Product. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 refer specifically to the announcement by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on 17th March that Australia had granted landing rights to World Airways for the purpose of bringing 21 special inclusive tour charter flights from the United States to Australia. Those who have taken an interest in this subject will be aware that by speeches and questions in the House I have relentlessly pursued a belief that this should have been done a long time ago. When we consider that our previous policy actually prevented World Airways operating to Australia during 1971 and 1972, at a cost to Australia of several million dollars, the Minister's announcement reflects a welcome aboutturn and economic boom. I have been critical in the past, and not without justification, of the head of the Department of Civil Aviation, but on this occasion I have nothing but praise. The fact that he reversed his stand and recognised that Australia was losing millions of dollars through short sightedness is credit to him. On reading the Minister's Press release one would think that extracts from my earlier speeches in this place had been pieced together. The very reasons he states for lifting the ban are those which I have long propounded. I do not advocate policies which suggest a sell-out of Australia's interests, but as I have said on so many occasions, the type of tourists who travel on these charter flights would never otherwise come to this country. 
It seems incredible that New Zealand had to show Australia the way. We all know that last year New Zealand authorities lost faith with the Australian policy and granted World Airways landing rights in their country. No doubt this was instrumental in forcing us to change course. I believe that the main obstacle has been Qantas Airways Ltd itself. I notice that the Minister's statement refers to the experimental nature of the permit, with future permits being governed by the United States approving Qantas or Qantair operations on exactly the same terms and conditions as United States charter operations. I am all for this attitude and hold the view that the United States would be unreasonable if it was to withhold these rights from our country's national airline. I am eager to campaign even more strongly for the rights of Qantas in this respect than I have in the past for permission to be given to American based charter operators to come to Australia. We are no longer tackling Goliath with David and slingshot but no stone. 
In the field of international tourism we are a babe in arms. We smugly boast about the $100m plus that we receive from international tourism, but never mention the millions of dollars above that amount that Australians spend overseas. War-torn Ireland and Mexico both receive more than $1 billion a year from tourism. The State of Florida receives $6 billion a year and the tiny island of Jamaica receives almost as much as we do. Our progress in this respect has been blocked by those who sit on the very top management of Qantas. They have responded to charier operations only as a result of strong pressure by the Government, the very able Minister for 
Civil Aviation and lately the change of attitude by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
Sometimes when one is flying with Qantas one is given postcards showing aeroplanes which were flying at about the time of Qantas's inception some 50 years ago. It is my view that the business acumen of the management of Qantas today is very much in keeping with those give-away postcards. It is time the management was replaced with men who possess some semblance of initiative and drive. Qantas fights for its survival in one of the most competitive business systems known to exist in the 20th century and it requires fat more than an ex-Treasury official, an expilot and a mediocre bunch to steer it off a course of disaster. No doubt every Australian is concerned with the staff sackings which have taken place in the past and which are promised for the future. If the management of Qantas had been aggressive and awake in this changing world, I believe that such ventures as Qantair would today be a reality and not just a forced and hurriedly conceived dream written on paper. 
For every 100 members of the staff of Qantas who have been sacked a director should be dismissed. The application of this formula would clean out the cobwebridden board room and ensure that the airline does not fall apart under our noses. It is no use blaming changing patterns for our demise. We must move with the times. Australians everywhere must recognise that for Qantas to turn in a loss is not a disaster, because a loss is more than offset by other gains such as foreign currency inflow. But Qantas has ridden for too long on the back of Australian nationalism and loyalty, and this is not sufficient. Qantas is a company that all Australians would wish to support but it is for a clever and progressive management of Qantas to show the people of Australia that it is a company worth supporting. At this very moment Qantas seems to be becoming bogged down in attempts to win a percentage of the European market. We all know that this involves taking Australians to European countries. This definitely has advantages in that Qantas regains in air fares the Australian currency that is spent, which is to our national advantage, but the facts of life are that the real gain to Australia will be by our making Australia accessible to the world. It is in respect of this fact that a mental block has existed for so long. 
Without doubt the United States of America is the supplier of the greatest number of tourists. I know that recently it was pointed out that Japanese tourists spend more per capita than do Americans, but a far greater number of Americans are able to come to Australia and, as the previous Minister for Civil Aviation, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr Swartz)  said some time ago,' our future lies in gaining American money, but in the past we have done nothing to secure this market. As all honourable members know, last week  Senator Cotton  announced that Australia is granting World Airways 21 flights to Australia. I have every confidence that Qantas will be given a reciprocal agreement and will be allowed to go to the United States and organise 21 flights of American tourists to Australia. 
It is high time that Qantas stopped dreaming of the past and went to America in anticipation of approval of reciprocal flights and started the preliminary organisation to enable Qantair to get off the ground. I am confident that Australia has so much to offer the world, including the United States, that given the right fare structure people who before could never have afforded to come to Australia, and people who will be reached through the advertising media, will want to come here. I believe that 21 flights is but a beginning and that within 2 or 3 years we will be talking and thinking in terms of 221 flights, not just 221 flights in 1 or 2 years but perhaps 100 flights for Qantas and 100 flights for the foreign company. We hope, of course, that even more flights will be arranged. 
I conclude by making a plea to the Minister to come to grips with the problem which has beset Qantas. Its problem is not due to the fact that Australians are not travelling; Australians are travelling more than ever. But they will opt out when other companies offer them cheaper air fares. For too long it has been alleged that Qantas has blocked the concept of cheaper fares, and it has agreed to them now only because it has been forced to move. If this is not true then the people of Australia are entitled to a clarification of the situation from somewhere. But please let us place at the head of Qantas younger and progressive men who have grown up in a world which has prepared them to tackle this aggressive airline industry. It is only by this means that Qantas will succeed and be able to stop this recent pattern of staff having to be laid off. 
Has the attention of the Minister for National Development been drawn to the claims by a conservationist,  Dr John  Coulter, that Australia's huge deposits of iron ore will be exhausted in 16 years and that its bauxite deposits will be exhausted in 31 years? Has the Minister any idea what motivated  Dr Coulter  to make these claims? Is there justification to compare these claims to the reckless and irresponsible utterances, damaging to Australia, made last week by the honourable member sometimes described as the Australian Labor Party's shadow minister for foreign affairs? 
 Mr Speaker,  last week it was reported that  Mr Willis,  the Chief Secretary in New South Wales, warned the public to avoid making travel arrangements with fly-by-night agents, offering cheap fares. This statement was possibly prompted by the publicity given to the fact that the New South Wales Fraud Squad was investigating complaints that a firm which promised air charter travel had defrauded many young Sydney people. We are all aware that at the last meeting of tourist Ministers, it was decided that travel agents throughout Australia should be licensed and registered. According to reports the Victorian Government is now drafting legislation on behalf of all States and the Commonwealth. This is both necessary and welcome. It is my intention to draw to the attention of the House and the people of Australia, certain aspects of charter flight operations in Australia that cause me some concern. The word 'misrepresentation' has many definitions, but to me it has the connotation of wrong. My condemnation varies according to circumstances. 
To make profit by the exploitation of human weakness is a miserable way of doing business. Government can never completely protect every individual from himself or others, and too often man's natural suspicion fades when what is or appears to be a bargain is dangled before him. Many bargain hunters have been foolish and trapped by trying to obtain cheap fares for overseas travel. The purpose of this exercise is to draw to the people's attention, from this privileged platform, some of those things which are likely to cause them distress, if they are careless in negotiation or gullible to attractive advertisements. I refer to the activities of an organisation known as Travel House, which at the end of October 1971 had the following outlets in Australia and South East Asia: Club International, Melbourne; London Travel, Geelong; European Tourist Promotions, Sydney; World Airline Services, Sydney; Capital Travel Centre, Canberra and Travel House of Australia, Adelaide. The organisation had a subsidiary in Perth and another one in Fremantle. In addition to these the organisation had the following outlets: Travel House of Australia, Brisbane; Crest Travel, at the Crest Hotel, Brisbane; London Travel, Hobart; Space Travel Centre, Singapore; and Space Travel Centre, Kuala Lumpur. 
I refer to some of that organisations recent advertising and members can make their own judgment on this, but so far as I am concerned it has, to say the least, characteristics of misleading and false information. At the end of last year it indulged in a massive advertising campaign claiming: Now you can get to London for $359 - Australia's lowest genuine fare'. However, perusal of its private and confidential staff bulletin of 27th October 1971 states the following: 
The fare is shown as being S359; this however applies only to return sectors, provided the return sector is pre-booked and prepaid. Single reservations are at the special fare of $395; also prepaid. The total return fare is therefore $754. What this means, in effect, is that we are giving the passenger a Xmas bonus in the form of a saving of S96 on a normal return flight. In addition, all passengers will receive a gift in the form of transistors, cameras, watches, etc., which will be drawn as a 'lucky dip' (in other words, a passenger cannot nominate a specific gift) - but everyone will receive a gift. 
What a lucky dip this is. The bulletin continued: 
Should any passengers wish to alter the date of their return flight from London, the fare must then revert to $395- and the difference also be paid either in Australia or in London (whatever the case may be) before departure. 
Is that not misrepresentation? It is little wonder that the staff comments in the back of the bulletin reports a Miss Theresa Wong as saying that she enjoys her work very much but disagrees with the accountant, and a Sylvia Sweet as saying everything is fine with the work: 'I like the job very much but hate to say that we ponder over bills not paid'. 
People could be excused for believing that the document signed during the making of a firm booking was a contract, but so far as I am concerned it is a trap for young players. Some people have complained recently that when they have cancelled their ticket they have been unable to get back their money. Let me read the conditions of booking and in particular the clause in relation to cancellation. It states: 
Cancellations: It is to be noted that by virtue of the warranty obtainable in conjunction with these fares upon payment of the sum of five dollars (AS5.00) passengers are entitled to a refund of 75 per centum of all monies paid providing the full fare has been paid and the advice of cancellation is advised in writing at least 14 days prior to departure. 
Here comes the punch line: 
All fares and deposits are otherwise non-  refundable. 
If I may express myself in the vernacular: Come in suckers. A recent article in the Brisbane 'Sunday Sun' quoted advice from a so-called Brisbane travel agent recently. I am told that he has no travel industry experience and by occupation was a used car salesman. The registration of the travel industry can not come quickly enough. 
Another interesting advertisement was that placed in newspapers for over a fortnight during last December. The advertiser proudly announced that he would fly a person to London via New York for $395. lt was only run for two weeks and then withdrawn. He could not send people for that fare via New York. I wonder what happened to the hopefuls on that occasion. Airways international has produced a magnificent brochure promoting its travel and in it it says it offers among other things: free total personal insurance, guarantee on all flight tickets and budget plan and travel finance. From the information I have, if there is a crash there will be no insurance because policies, allegedly, do not exist. I am informed also by a reliable source that the other attractions are non-existent. 
Another advertisement, which has by now probably appeared in the 'Australian', Sunday Australian', 'Sunday Mirror', Daily Telegraph', 'Mirror', 'Newcastle Morning Herald', 'Canberra Times', 'Canberra News', 'Sun News Pictorial', 'Melbourne Herald', 'Courier Mail', 'Brisbane Telegraph', Adelaide 'Advertiser', Adelaide News', 'West Australian', 'Sunday Times' and 'Mercury', claims that this organisation will get a person to London and return for $595. This should be $644, taking into account the extra $32 to be paid for mandatory stopover, the $7 reservation fee and the $10 insurance warranty, which I am told is just not written. 
I refer now to an advertisement which appeared in the 'Sunday Australian' of 12 March - 10 inches by 7 inches of enticement. I quote: 
Travel House of Australia announce a historic fare reduction ... for eastern states travellers. 
This organisation claims that for $295 it can ship-jet a person to London, Paris or Amsterdam via New York. It is beginning to sound like a Peter Stuyvesant cigarette advertisement. This travel agency claims to be able to fly people across the Pacific, via 
Honolulu and San Francisco. For S265 a person can ship-jet to New York via the same exciting route. That was how the advertisement read. From my inquiries I have learned that Travel House is taking deposit and full passage money for this excursion. At this time it has no aircraft organised and no traffic rights. To travel by ship it was planned that passengers would disembark in Fiji and then fly the rest of the way. But even the most starry-eyed and optimistic traveller would grant that this  is  difficult when Fiji had advised that no traffic rights will be granted. 
L do not have a reputation for making accusations in this House that are later proved to be false, but I think it is high time that such organisations as travel houses were forced to come out into the open and show the public exactly the manner in which they operate. If they can do this to my satisfaction, I will sing their praises everywhere. But I would not have made this speech tonight had I believed the situation to be any different from that which I have outlined. 
I have no intention this evening of voting against the proposals outlined in the report of the Standing Orders Committee but I want to raise a matter that no honourable member has referred to previously and which I believe is worthy of mention. The fact is that today we operate under a system of government whereby the people are very much dependent on the. elected representatives. In resent months we have created a situation whereby some 41 per cent of those honourable members who sit on this side of the House have been virtually silenced by their promotion. Parliamentary democracy is such that one of its essential ingredients is that members on both sides of the House can look at proposed legislation and Cabinet decisions both critically and objectively. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I have no intention of voting against these proposals but I would like to place on record my own personal warning that this act of the creation of Assistant Ministers in itself contributes to the erosion of the democracy which keeps this nation going. 
On the credit side, I recognise that with a parliament of 125 members, with as many issues to consider as the Congress of the United States or the British Parliament, more and more work is falling upon the shoulders of a few, and because of this these men need assistance. The creation of Assistant Ministers will in some way contribute to helping the situation and alleviating the work load of Ministers. I would like to repeat my warning that if democracy in Australia is to continue to succeed, moves to silence either on purpose or without purpose the views of those who sit on the back benches should be stopped because they can only lead to its eventual destruction. I had hoped that it would not require a member from the Government side to draw this feature to the attention of the Parliament because it seems to be a fact which has completely slipped by those who sit on the Opposition benches. 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that there are still approximately ISO Australian soldiers serving in South Vietnam? Has the Minister seen reports of a decision reached by a certain Victorian body indicating that that group prefers a communist victory in Vietnam? Is that pro-communist group affiliated with any Party represented in this chamber? If so, does that Party pose as the alternative Government? Finally, will he assure this nation's armed forces that, while this Government continues in office, not even one Australian soldier need fear being ratted on? 
A free vote is to be held on this subject and in view of the fact that hon ourable members have been extended what might be described as this privilege I believe that we have the right to speak our minds. That certainly is my intention. It has been suggested that members of this Parliament use petitions for political reasons^ - that they present them without any basis at all and just use them for political purposes. Back bench members of the House never really know whether they are on the right track. We work under a system of Cabinet government and only members of the Cabinet or of the Ministry have access to government files. For all the information they get, back bench members from both sides of the House might be likened to a flock of pigeons in Hyde Park being fed crumbs during the lunch hour. Members have available to them the processes of question time, questions on notice and letters to Ministers. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in referring to the petitions presented to the House said that members never received any advice from the Minister concerned with the subject matter of those petitions. I wonder whether he has ever written to those Ministers. During the last 6 years there has never been an occasion when a Minister has not acknowledged, in some way or another, a letter which I have written to him. 
I believe that many a just cause has been raised in this Parliament by means of petitions. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation, which was established during the term of the previous Prime Minister, was the outcome of a campaign spearheaded by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  when petitions about the conservation of kangaroos were presented to the House. Almost every honourable member was sick and tired of hearing about kangaroos, but that campaign got results. It was all very well for the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  to recall the big petitions which were presented in 1947 to the then Labor government on the matter of bank nationalisation. The Labor government ignored those petitions and 2 years later it lost office. The Labor Party has been out of office ever since and I do not see it being returned to power for many years yet. 
The people of Australia are entitled to this form of protest. I am not saying for- one moment that what is being suggested today will deprive the public of a form of protest. However, just because a Labor government was wrong in the 1940s it does not give us an excuse to project such thinking into the 21st century. The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  presented some interesting figures. He said that in 1969, 90 petitions had been presented; in 1970, 494 and 1971, 723. I ask all honourable members to keep in mind the last 2 figures - 494 and 723. Yet between 1970 and 1971 when the number of petitions was almost doubled, the time taken to present them increased from 8 hours 39 minutes to 8 hours 31 minutes - only 12 minutes more. I do not regard giving the public  8i  hours or so in a full year as allowing it an excessive amount of the time of the Parliament. This Parliament exists because of John Citizen - because of the people whose right we question to sign a petition and to protest. Without those people there would be no Parliament. I repeat that, as far as I am concerned, even if we spend a little time each day on petitions, this is something to which the public is entitled and, in fact, is a fundamental right of the citizen. 
We seem to forget that many of the petitions that have been presented in this House have taken hours and hours of the time of people who collect signatures, whether they be misled or whether they be on the right track. They have been prepared to give up that time to the process of collecting signatures to register the protests. We have now reached a stage where members of Parliament are to surrender to the  Clerk  of the House the right to present a petition. This change makes every member of Parliament, including the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, message boys of the  Clerk  of the House. 
The people have a right to be heard. The honourable member for North Sydney says 'break it up', but he knows that the people have a right to be heard. When you stifle democracy you are in fact contributing to its very destruction. Australia, as a nation, has a history of people accepting the rule of law, except, as we know, unfortunately - and I do not wish to be political - for certain members of the Opposition who seem to specialise in the breaking of laws. We have a history of acceptance of the law, and I believe that that acceptance has been contributed to in some way by the systems of democracy which have existed in the past. If members of the Parliament have grown tired of bearing petitions, perhaps they should give extra thought to whether they are still suitable as members of Parliament, for the moment we stop listening to the cries and pleas of the people, I believe that we ourselves become somewhat ineffective. There is no denying that at times the time of this House has been wasted by schemes that have been dreamed up by certain members who wished to push a particular cause. But because some people have abused the system, is the entire system wrong? 1 for one do not believe so. 
Perhaps there should be changes. These are the changes I would like to suggest. There should be a system of presenting petitions in which a petition that is presented, say, 20 or 30 times on one day, is read on only one occasion. Honourable members understand that the system is that the member has a choice of saying whether the petition be received or whether the petition be received and read. If a petition has been presented previously, most members of the Parliament have the common sense, or use their discretion, to accept that the petition should only be received, but there are some members who, for various reasons, insist not only on reading the abbreviated form of the petition, but also that the  Clerk  of the House be forced to stand up and read the full terms of the petition. If we do wish to make changes that are time-saving, this is the area where those changes should be made. It is in this area where the greatest waste of time happens on each occasion. 
There is another suggestion I would like to make. It has been suggested that some members of the Parliament present petitions with only 4 or 5 signatures. When we have an issue that has created or generated a certain amount of public interest, we should require a minimum number of signatures for the petition to be presented - or combine petitions for the purpose. This in itself would also contribute to time saving. On the other hand, I am not suggesting that if a member walks into  this  House and says that his electors in Cooktown  or  some other part  of  Australia  wish  to put forward something, because there are only 10 signatures that person or those people should not have an opportunity to have their protest heard. This, we have been told, is a matter for open discussion. I am surprised when 1 look at the membership of the Standing Orders Committee - the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Looking at them quickly, I think that the Opposition almost has a majority of numbers. Why did this democratic body not think of some of these objections itself? 1 would like to hear an explanation of how some of these basic principles of democracy have been allowed to slip by and to be omitted from this report when we have such champions of democracy as the honourable member for Wills, as he tries to present himself from time  to  time. This is to be a free vote and I have no intention of supporting the suggested amendment on the question of petitions because I believe it is not in the best interests of the Parliament or the people of Australia. If members have grown tired of listening to the pleas of the people of Australia, they have one alternative and wc all know what that is. 
I wish to speak tonight in support of the concept of an earlier rising of the Parliament on sitting days. However, I agree with those honourable members who have suggested that there should be an allocation of so many hours a day in which the Government can complete its business. One cannot help but ponder on this rather antiquated procedure whereby Parliament starts its daily sittings at 10.30 a.m. on Thursdays and 2.30 p.m. on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. No matter at what time the Parliament starts and no matter at what time the Parliament adjourns the great majority of members are assembled somewhere in the precincts of the House around 9 o'clock in the morning. If we were to go through to 7 o'clock, we might not be here until 10 o'clock that morning; but no matter how late the Parliament sits at night, we are all back again at 9 o'clock in the morning. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  made some boast earlier as to his great strength, and I must comment that he has always been a lively member of this House and an acquisition. Nevertheless, towards the end of a week it must be a lovely sight for members of the Press gallery and those who sit in the public gallery when they look down into the chamber and see some members half asleep. They must say to themselves: 'Well, what a sight. We send these men to Canberra'. 
The honourable member for Sturt is back. He has been away for 2 days. I say to him: Welcome back'. The people who see members half asleep must go away from here sadly disillusioned as to the manner in which honourable members take an interest in the business of the Parliament. However, the fact is that most honourable members - and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said this earlier- work 80 hours a week and their working day in Canberra is something like 16 hours. It is little wonder that the Parliament at times gives a drowsy appearance to the people who sit in the galleries. 
Another aspect of this matter relates to the Ministers of the Crown. I often wonder how on earth they continue, in the manner in which they do, to carefully scrutinise submissions and papers over long periods while still maintaining their alertness. There would not be any other group of administrators or top businessmen in the nation who would work the hours that are worked by Ministers of the Crown and who would be expected to make the important decisions that Ministers make because they are in charge of the business of running the nation. I repeat the earlier suggestion that perhaps we should consider bringing forward the starting time of sittings of the Parliament. If a number of us do see common sense, as was suggested by some of the previous speakers, and vote in favour of the amendment that the motion to adjourn the House be moved at 10 p.m., then no doubt the Government, being confronted with the problem of finding extra time in which to deal with the business of the House, will give consideration to an earlier start to offset the disadvantage which will accrue as a result of an earlier rising of the Parliament on sitting days. 
I do not intend to speak for very long on this matter because it is one on which one has only to state his position. I think that most honourable members have a mind of their own and do not need to be subjected to long speeches of coercion to make them see sense. However, I remind all honourable members, particularly those on this side of the House because I know that honourable members on the other side can speak for themselves, that this is a free vote. The honourable member for Wilmot said that this is the first time for many years that there has been a free vote. I repeat the suggestion which I made last night: Just because the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  stands up in this place and says what the Labor Party did in the 1940s, it does not make it right that we should continue to do the same thing in the 1970s and all the way through to the 21st century. Let us wake up to ourselves. In the 1940s most members of Parliament remained in Canberra during the weekend. They did not jump on a plane at 7 o'clock on Friday morning, soon after the House rose, return to their electorates, sit in their offices and meet constituents who thought that they had been down in Canberra for 3 days doing absolutely nothing. They did not pretend that they were as fresh as daisies and they did not attend functions on Friday nights and spend busy weekends, all the time pretending that they were alert and awake. 
No doubt some people will say that if we need a rest we can go and have a little snooze during the dinner adjournment. But we all know that committees meet during dinner adjournments and that time is precious. I support the suggestion made by none other than the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull).  I note that the Government has seen fit to knight him. If the Government has seen fit to knight a man of his standing and position, who commands so much respect, I am quite sure that all honourable members should examine his suggestion that the House should adjourn at 10.30 at night. After more than 20 years of service in this Parliament, what finer tribute could we pay to the honourable member for Mallee than to make him responsible for changing the sitting pattern of the Australian Parliament. I say that even though he is not a member of my own Party. Although at times he is a little parochial, every now and again we see a glimmer of brightness and commonsense come from him which completely counterbalances the parochialism which from time to time he displays in this House. 
I do not intend to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  because, as the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  said, it would be a little too much to take  3  hours sitting time out of every week, but certainly there could be a compromise. Time and time again when we are not allowed a free vote on a subject I know that many members on this side of the House are bubbling and boiling inside, wanting to support the Opposition on a certain matter, but because members of the Opposition play so much party politics, it is very difficult for honourable members on this side of the House to support the Opposition, and we stick together as a team. On this occasion we have been given a free vote, and I think that we will be able to discharge our responsibilities if we start our day earlier and rise at an earlier hour each night. 
1 was quite pleased to hear the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  raise this subject tonight. I know that for quite some time he has had an interest in it. I spoke about it in this House on 29th March last, as reported at page 1379 of Hansard of that date. As a result of my speech, Travel House of Australia Pty Ltd wrote to the Editor of the 'Sunday Australian' in the following terms: 
We seriously question the knowledge and eligibility of  Mr Cameron,  MP, to discuss booking conditions when relating to charter passengers. 
I have never set myself up in this House as being a specialist on charter flight operations; I do not think that any man would do so. But I do set myself up as being one who has a sense of proportion which enables him to judge what is fair and what is not fair. Before I proceed any further I should like to refer to the last speech which I made on this matter. Travel House (Orange) Pty Ltd is a company which has been established for many years in the electorate of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  and members of that company were really upset because they thought that I was referring to their company. The honourable member for Calare informs me that it is a very reputable company, and I make it clear now that the company in Orange was not the subject of my remarks on the previous occasion I raised this matter in this House. I make all the apologies in the world for the inconvenience and embarrassment caused to this company as a result of a similarity of names, which clearly is not my fault. 
Immediately after I had made my speech in this House a man in Brisbane came to me and said that Travel House of Australia owed him $700. He said: 'I took out a ticket from here to London and back and I had a ticket from London to Brisbane' - or somewhere else in Australia - for this lady and her daughter, but for certain reasons they did not come'. I suggested to him that he should go along to the Travel House agency in Brisbane - Crest Travel which is situated at the Crest Hotel in Brisbane. He said: T have been there many times and I have had a fairly rough deal. I have not got anywhere'. I said: 'Why do you not contact the Brisbane "Sunday Mail" which might give you some support?' Then he went and saw employees of the Sunday Mail' and showed them a copy of my speech. Representatives of the 'Sunday Mail' accompanied him to Crest Travel which, I believe, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Travel House of Australia. Crest Travel immediately rang the Melbourne office, and I must say that they were courteous. An assurance was given that a letter would be written on the following Saturday. 
This constituent came into my office on the following Tuesday and said: 'I am going to Melbourne. I am frightened that this company will go broke. I want to get down there. I said: 'Give them another day'. He said: 'No, I am going'. He went down to Melbourne by bus. 1 think it was on the Thursday morning that he went in and said to the people in Melbourne : 'All right, you have got until 3 o'clock in the afternoon'. It was obvious to him that they did not really intend to pay him at that stage. He suggested to them that if they did not pay him the money he would bring representatives from the Melbourne 'Herald' along to see them. He returned that afternoon and they did come good and pay him $700, or $694, which they owed him. This was a case where pressure was brought to bear and a refund was made. I wonder what would have happened if this man had not gone to Melbourne, because the money had been the subject of dispute for some 4 or 5 months. 
Now I wish to read to the House a letter from a  Mr Ruxton  in Canberra. In the letter he referred to the letter from the directors of Travel House of Australia, which was published in the 'Sunday Australian', in which they claimed that my speech had forced them to cancel certain flights to London via the United States of America. We must not underestimate the power of a member of Parliament. A big company with many subsidiaries - I think that Travel House of Australia has approximately 2 dozen subsidiaries throughout Australia - was forced to cancel a whole flight programme because of the utterances of a member of Parliament who was only seeking truth and justice for the unwary people of Australia. This is the letter which was written by  Mr Ruxton: 
In your issue of 9 April 1972, three Directors of Travel House of Australia Pty Ltd claimed that all their agencies throughout the world were free of all or any liability'. 
May I point out that I have at the present moment a summons out against 'London Arcade Travel' a wholly-owned agent of 'Travel House' for breach of contract. 
In brief, I paid for a return trip from Sydney to London in mid-1971 and was sent a voucher stamped on the inside 'Travel House of Australia Pty Ltd', for the return journey from London to Sydney. In a covering letter I was asked to hand in the voucher to 'Travel House' in London for necessary ticketing for return. In England, I wrote to 'Travel House' confirming an agreed date for my return and saying that I wished to pick up the tickets at their office in London. They replied giving instructions for the return journey but sent no tickets. When I called at Travel House four days before departure, they refused to exchange the voucher for tickets and said the tickets would be available from Southern Cross Airways at Gatwick Airport, on departure. 
At Gatwick, on departure, no tickets were available nor was the voucher acceptable to Southern Cross Airways. After confirming that it was the right flight, at the right time, and after meeting two other passengers in the same plight, I paid my own fare from London to Kuala Lumpur, where 'Travel House' had said tickets would be available, at the desk of Cathay Pacific Airways, for return to Sydney. At Kuala Lumpur no tickets were available for me and I had to pay my own way back to Sydney. 
On return to Australia and in reply to a request for a refund of the fares. Travel House promised an 'immediate investigation' and a prompt settlement'-- 
He must have been quoting from some correspondence-- 
. but after 6 months nothing has happened. There has not even been an explanation. 
Yours faithfully, 
P. Ruxton 
I fully realise that charter operators rely heavily upon booking fullflights; if aircraft are not fully booked, the operators cannot make the business a paying proposition. Passengers have to be fairly certain about their movements. But I do not believe that the type of advertising in which these charter operators indulge - they have big advertisements in various colours displayed in their windows and in almost every newspaper in Australia - gives every Australian the correct picture. The advertisements refer to a fare of $399 for a flight to London via New York or Amsterdam. When many people who are usually cautious see advertisements like this they drop their guard because not too many people can resist a tempting bargain. Very many people are not experienced in world travel, and they think to themselves: 'We will be right'. They will be 'right' all right; they will be left in places such as Kuala Lumpur or Singapore for many days. 
I believe that recently someone sued  a  charter operator - it might have been Travel House - because that person arrived at his destination days later than had been arranged when the original booking was made. I think that the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities  (Mr Howson),  who has had the opportunity to listen to 2 members of Parliament speaking on this matter tonight - the honourable member for Oxley and myself - will recognise that we are not just flying kites, that there is something radically wrong. I know that Qantas Airways Ltd, following months and months of pressure from myself and a few other people, has at last moved to introduce charter flights. Although I have expressed certain feelings about Qantas in the past, now it has done what I have suggested it should do, and regardless of what I have said about Qantas in the past. 1 would rather spend $420 on a flight with Qantas, which I am sure will get me where I am going, than to take the risk of being stranded in some far-flung place, or, alternatively, losing a lot of money, because there are so many conditions attached to booking a flight with these charter operators. Certainly it is a trap for the unwary. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he is aware that President Nixon recently ordered a tightening of security in relation to public accessibility to parked aircraft and the handling of cargo and baggage. In view of recent events at home and abroad have  preventitive  measures been planned or introduced to protect Australian air travellers and crews against attempts at air piracy and other dangers? Will the Minister do everything possible to ensure that our own airlines security policy is so designed as to minimise public exposure to the activities of the mentally ill and the criminal? 
Did the Minister for Primary Industry make a statement at the end of last week in which he said that Australia possibly would not be able to meet the quotas for the supply of beef to the United States of Amenca because of the recent development of other markets throughout the world? If he did, does he have any suggestions or plans to promote the Australian beef industry so that as a nation we may take advantage of the markets offering to this country? 
lt is a shame that 1972, a year in which Queensland has asked for and received its first grant, just happens to be an election year in that State because since this debate began we have heard and seen nothing but displays of sheer and utter humbug and politicking from members of the Opposition. As a Queenslander listening to the speeches of the Opposition, I wonder just what type of State 1 actually come from and how incompetent the Queensland Government is. However, I realise that all Queenslanders will see for themselves that Queensland has progressed since the election of the Liberal-Country Party government in 1967 and that the Queensland Government will be returned to office in a few short weeks. In speaking to the Queensland Grant Bill, I wish to make complimentary remarks about the honourable member for Lilley, who is the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who, almost since his arrival in this Parliament, has continued to press his belief here and in Queensland upon the State Government that it should make an application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This has resulted in a temporary payment on an early assessment of $9m with the possibility of an even greater payment in the future. 
All honourable members know that the Commonwealth Grants Commission was set up in about 1933 or 1934. Today, we heard the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  make derogatory remarks about the Queensland Government because it had not applied before to the Grants Commission. I think that this is a little unfair when we look at the situation and when we consider the efforts which were made by the Minister for Housing. It is the prerogative of the States whether they will apply to the Grants Commission. The honourable member for Oxley was rather harsh in his comments and it is appropriate to remind him that, of the smaller southern States, Tasmania is the only State to have continued for many years to make application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. South Australia withdrew as a claimant in 1959, after having made applications for some years, and resumed applications only in 1971. Western Australia - another Labor State - withdrew in 1969 and, since the election of a Labor government, that State has not seen fit to apply to the Grants Commission. So, I think it is inappropriate and unreal for members of the Opposition to seize upon this fact because, as I have already stated, it is the prerogative of the States to do as they wish. 
The speeches which we have heard today probably have given the rest of Australia the impression that Queensland is a very backward State. I would like to tell those Australians who may have listened to the Parliament this afternoon and who may be listening tonight that this is not so. I am one person on this side of the House who is proud to be from the State of Queensland, The claims of members of the Opposition are completely false and without foundation. It is a fact of life that Queensland is different from many of the other States. There would not be another State which has its population so well spread across its entire area as has Queensland. Of course, we must take into account the size of the State when we consider this statement. Like other parts of Australia, Queensland has suffered from drought over the last couple of years. Unfortunately, some members of the Opposition who have electorates based in city areas hardly realise or care that a drought may be in existence in the outback areas. I know that my friend the honourable member for Kennedy and Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  will be speaking shortly. No doubt he will elucidate this point a little further and remind members of the Australian Labor Party who represent Brisbane metropolitan electorates that the State has a west upon which Brisbane is dependent. 
Another economic fact is that the entire world has suffered an economic recession. All in all, Australia has weathered this economic recession quite well. While our unemployment is not pleasing - the rate has increased over a time and is still too high so far as many of us are concerned - the figures are nothing like those in, say, the United States of America and Great Britain. The only countries which I think can beat our figures are Japan and West Germany where the unemployment rate is lower than it is in Australia. When we look at the national picture, all in all, Queensland has weathered the storm better than any other Australian State. A couple of honourable members opposite look surprised, as if to ask: 'How can you substantiate this claim?' One can use figures until the cows come home. I would like to quote a few figures which would suggest that things are not nearly so bad as honourable members opposite have been suggesting. I do not think that such figures as these are at all unimportant. The figures I have are for the December quarter, which is just completed. These are the latest figures which members of the Opposition would not have as they have just come down from Queensland. The average weekly earnings in Queensland have risen from $79 to $89, an increase of 12i per cent. 
The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  made reference to housing. Whilst I would not say he was dishonest, because that is not the honourable member for Brisbane, he was very tricky in his use of figures earlier today. He plucked figures for one section of housing out of the sky and pointed to the fact that the Queensland State Government had a policy of not fostering housing commission homes. He said that for this reason housing figures were down in Queensland. However, when we examine the overall picture we see that the number of houses approved for the month of February 1971  -  this is very recent - was 1,219. For the same month in 1972, the figure was 1,581, an increase of 29.7 per cent. Is this an indication of a State on the skids? Motor vehicle registrations are up 25.2 per cent on February 1972 figures as compared with the figures for 1971. Bank deposits in Queensland have risen by 14.2 per cent. Truly - I see you nodding your head in agreement,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - Queensland is far from being on the skids. That State has continued to progress despite the problems of drought and many other problems which have confronted it. 
Those honourable members who have read the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission will have seen that the Queensland case was to a great extent built around some of the problems which confront the State because of its size - the problem of railways and the many miles of rail track and also the number of ports in Queensland. I believe that Queensland has more ports than all the other State in Australia put together. There is a problem in relation to the hospitals which are spread throughout the State, catering for small communities. There is an extra cost in providing educational facilities in schools for students all over the State. Queensland also has certain taxation problems in comparison with the 2 main States. 
The Commission pointed out that it doubted whether the problems in certain areas were as great as the State Government had made out but, overall, it acknowledged that Queensland had a special case because of these features. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  commenced his speech before dinner but, unfortunately, he came back into the House after the suspension of the sitting and rather spoiled the pleasant meal which most of us had enjoyed tonight by suggesting that the State Treasurer was incompetent. He dragged out some of those matters which the Australian Labor Party used to their sorrow in the 1969 election campaign when it tried to suggest that the Premier and various people in Queensland had been involved in illegal transactions in shares, etc. We all recall that in that year the Government was returned once again. Quite frankly, I do not understand, when it is obvious that the people have rejected something before, why the Australian Labor Party persisits in dragging up this matter. 
We witnessed today sections of the parliamentary wing of the Australian Labor Party verbally disowning  Mr Westerman,  their New South Wales manager. The Australian Labor Party has always reminded me of a bird with lice - it can peck away with its beak but it cannot or will not use its claws to get at the root of the trouble. 
Listen to them squarking. I was pleasantly surprised to find that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  did not raise the question of the Griffith University. Back home some of his colleagues - aldermen and State members of his Party - have persisted for some weeks in building an issue around the so-called failure of the State Government to provide a university on the southern side of Brisbane. Might I say as one who was born, bred and still lives on the southern side of Brisbane that I am as pleased as anyone in this House to see progress on that side of the city. Perhaps the honourable member for Bowman has hardly said a word about the Griffith University because he believes that this should be left to the local aldermen and State members whom some might regard as being able to indulge in a little more parochialism than does a Federal member. 
There they go again. The facts of life are that while members of the Opposition have tried to gain public support and make political capital out of the alleged failure of the State Government to erect or to go on with a university on the south side of Brisbane, in recent years we have seen the creation in Townsville, a city so ably represented by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who will be returned here with even a greater majority after the next Federal election, of the James Cook University. 

 Mi Keogh - What Party does he represent? 
He is very fortunate in that he does not have any handicaps - he is a member of the Liberal 
Party. The creation of the Griffith University is something which we have all longed for and looked forward to. I have been informed by reliable sources that students will be attending that University by 1975. 
It is a fact of life that the Australian Universities Commission has strongly advocated that the Griffith University should not be commenced at the expense of the University of Queensland at St Lucia. It stated that for educational purposes it was to the State's best advantage to channel more money into bringing the University of Queensland up to a certain standard in order that it might be able to use facilities and modern techniques and provide the room to teach students to the best financial advantage. The decision to improve the University of Queensland was made on the recommendation, I believe, of the Australian Universities Commission. It is not fair to slate the State Government continually because let us face it: In this world of politics when one is listening to the Australian Labor Party one has to be on one's toes. It would suit the Government a lot better politically to have redirected some of the money away from the University of Queensland in order to start building the Griffith University so that people on the south side would say: 'Well, they are on their way'. This would no doubt win votes. But the Government stuck by its belief when it had to make extra money available for the university at St Lucia. 
I would like to quote from an article which appeared in today's 'Courier Mail' - the paper that tells us all. It concerns a statement by Professor Zelman Cowen. The article states: 
He stressed that the new Griffith University should not be financed, either for capital or recurrent expenditure, at the expense of the legitimate needs of the Queensland University. 
Are the aldermen and State members in Queensland who belong to the Opposition suggesting that Professor Cowen does not know what he is talking about? Is that what they are suggesting? Most people realise that no matter how desirable a project may be there is only a certain amount of money that can be allocated and that is that. 
While we are talking about education I would like to raise one or two matters. 
Firstly I want to express my concern at the fact that the Balmoral High School still lacks a Commonwealth library. 
That school happens to be situated in the electorate of Griffith of which for some years I have been the representative. Students who leave that school each year are unfortunate to be turned out into society or into fields of higher education without having had the benefits of the use of one of these very modern and efficient Commonwealth libraries. I hope that the Commonwealth Grants Commission will broaden its scope and take into account the difficulties of the State of Queensland in providing libraries for all secondary schools because they deserve such libraries. 
Another matter to which I wish to refer is the great need in Queensland for a vastly improved in-service training system for teachers. We live today in a world which is rapidly changing and there is a constant need for teachers to return to college in order to keep up to date. Just as doctors who do not read medical magazines continually will be seen to fall behind, so can teachers if they are deprived of this opportunity. So there is a need to keep our teachers in touch with the most modern methods. This is something to which, I hope, the Queensland Government will give more attention. I hope that it will use some of its money for this purpose. Perhaps when we get the reviewed grant we can make this one of our first priorities because no doubt such attention is needed. 
I notice that the honourable member for Brisbane is sitting in his seat with a pleasant smile on his face. He belongs to a party which has condemned the efforts of the Queensland Government in the field of education. I remind the honourable member that only yesterday the 'Courier Mail' carried a story of a Sim rural training college which is proposed to be built at Clare which is near Ayr in north Queensland. In 1967 this so-called incompetent Government opened one of these colleges in Longreach. Last year it opened a new college at Emerald. Queensland is a primary producing State. In many respects the people of that State rely heavily upon primary products. It is good to see that the 
Government has educational intentions of this kind in mind. I remember my own experiences at the Gatton College, which is an agricultural college in Queensland, when the Labor Party was in power. I notice the eyebrows of honourable members lift. At that time the great Opposition, the Party which cares so much for education and students, was in office in Queensland. Gatton can become as cold as Canberra. Despite this we did not have even hot water. When I was there the hot water system had been out for a year. The college did not have enough money to fix the hot water system. The only way to have a shower was to shower in the warmth of the afternoon. 
Is the Minister for Shipping and Transport able to tell the Parliament when the Tariff Board's report on the shipbuilding industry is likely to be made available? Is he aware that the  Chairman  of Directors of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd is definitely not kidding when he says that the firm may soon be forced to abandon ship building? Is the Minister able to name any other industry which has such an important part to play in a time of war but which is allowed to run like an unheld headless rooster during times of peace? Is he aware that 1,500 Queenslanders could soon be without work? Will the Minister assure the House that we may soon witness some decisiveness in relation to the needs of this industry, as I have advocated in various quarters for some time now? 
I ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts whether he has seen a report of comments made by Professor Ali Mazru of Uganda recommending a policy which encourages Aboriginal children to be educated with ot without the consent of their parents and suggesting that some degree of coercion is needed if Aboriginal children are to be separated from parental influence and absorbed, through education processes, into the mainstream of change? Does the Minister agree that this is a view held by many Australians? Will the Minister inform the House what is proposed in Commonwealth administered areas to ensure that Aboriginal children are given every opportunity to overcome their present environmental handicap? Does the Professor's suggestion that in the future boarding schools should be used much more than they have been in the past have any appeal? 
 The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  has made quite a deal out of the amendment which has been moved tonight by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  My comments will be very short and sweet. So far as I am concerned, if this Bill is to be worth anything it should ban all forms of cigarette advertising. I have been in the United States where cigarette packets carry the warning that cigarette smoking will be hazardous to health. Smokers, including myself, did not cease tearing off the sealing strip and lighting up. Whilst we may be subjected to that type of warning in the future, one will have only to open a glossy magazine to see advertisements for different brands of cigarettes. I predict that cigarette advertisements in magazines will be greatly increased because the cigarette companies, which are so reliant upon promotion- like any organisation - will simply rechannel their advertising funds. If we were really fair dinkum about this matter we would stamp out all cigarette advertising. That is all I have to say. 
 I desire to oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for 
Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  He has a history in this Parliament of opposing everything that represents private enterprise. He will stand up in this Parliament and claim that his party endorses a 2-air- line policy and yet he will make utterances which, if closely examined, will show that basically he is the spokesman for a party that is totally against the concept of a 2- airline polity. While he was speaking I took out a copy of the platform of the Australian Labor Party as approved at Launceston in 1971. I would like to read to the Parliament the section under the heading 'Economic Planning'. Sub-section 3 reads as follows: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. 
The Australian Labor Party and its official spokesmen always seem to jump up and down on the ground when the name 'Ansett Airlines' is mentioned. They think they have a right to do so because Ansett Airlines of Australia is in some way assisted by Government policy. I suggest that the Australian Labor Party, by proposing this amendment, is showing its true colours. What it proposes is but another contribution to the concept of centralisation 
The honourable member for Newcastle suggested that because Ansett Airlines receives some form of protection from this Government it should be required to present to the Parliament each year an annual report stating that company's activities. I seriously question the logic of the honourable member for Newcastle because what he is saying is that, because an industry is afforded some protection, it should answer directly to this Parliament by presenting an annual report. I ask the honourable member to consider all the other industries which, in various ways, are protected by government, whether they be secondary or primary industries. We provide subsidies for our rural industries. The Opposition's spokesman on this subject is also its spokesman on shipping. I ask him whether every shipbuilding company in Australia that receives government assistance should be required, as a private company, to present to this Parliament each year an annual report. I ask whether every company or organisation that receives protection through tariffs should be required to do likewise. 
Thank you for your protection,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but what I have been reading is directly from the Australian Labor Party's platform. That is the first member of this Parliament who has had the decency to stand up in this House and admit that the Labor Party's platform is a misleading document. That is exactly what he has done. It is no wonder they call him 'Stormy Normie'. 
I do know what I am talking about. Even the printing companies in Australia which now receive a book bounty should also be required to produce an annual report to this Parliament, because every company that receives some assistance should be required to do so, if the honourable member's approach is carried along to its logical conclusion. I notice that you are shaking your head,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in disagreement with this because you know that the Parliament is subjected already to so many reports and things that this would be impractical. In the later part of his speech the honourable member for Newcastle spoke about the policy in relation to the flight times of airlines. 1 agree that the change that has been made is really not as great as the airlines are trying to make out. It has been interesting to watch the spokesman for Trans-Australia Airlines being interviewed by Roland Strong about these changes of schedules. They have made a big thing about these proposed changes. I am quite sure that the honourable member for Newcastle, who has spoken with obvious affection for the other airline, if he is as true as he likes to appear will draw this fact to that company's attention. Australia is a large country with a small population. If we had a population the size of that of the United States of America we might be able to indulge in extravagances such as many airlines flying different times and different routes. But with a population of less than 13 million in a land mass of some 3 million square miles our policies must be designed to fit in with the environment and the population that we hold. 
 As I have already spoken to the Deputy Government Whip in regard to the time remaining in which to dispose of Government Business I shall make my comments very much to the point. After listening to speeches from members of the Opposition in this debate this afternoon I have reflected on the subjects which they chose to use by way of comparison. Some chose Canada as a country for comparison and others chose other countries just to bolster their stories. Honourable members opposite seem to choose these various countries at various times in making comparisons simply to try to make Australia look worse than other countries. I am sure that if our performances in all fields were to be compared with the various aspects of government in other countries, our country would line up quite well. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  spoke this afternoon in the debate and said he supported the proposition. He showed more sense than did most honourable members opposite who spoke in this debate. The speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was possibly one of his worst performances ever. The fact that this afternoon - only a short time ago - he came into the House and altered the terms of his amendment because certain things have been said which showed the original amendment to be unsatisfactory further underlines the fact that the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition on this subject is far from satisfactory. There are one or two points that I wish to make quickly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member state his point of order. 
The honourable member for Sturt need not worry very much about his parliamentary pension because after the next election he will be on the waterfront whence he came. As I was saying before that rather trivial interruption by the honourable member for Sturt- (Quorum formed) 
As I was saying before the mountain erupted, the Australian Labor Party's amendment suggests that every migrant who comes to Australia should be naturalised before he qualifies for an age pension and that after only 10 years in Australia he should be allowed to leave the country and take his pension with him. I suggest that by the imposition of a naturalisation requirement the Leader of the Opposition is putting a price on Australian nationality - $17 a week, the amount of the present age pension. I know families who have come to this country, the husband of which has decided to become naturalised, but for her own private reasons the wife has been reluctant to do so too quickly, and sometimes many years have passed before she has become naturalised. The Australian Labor Party is suggesting by its amendment that any person who does not choose to become a naturalised Australian should be ineligible for an age pension, a widow's pension or any other pension. As I said before this is discrimination in its worst form, that we in Australia would be sitting in judgment on the private motives of those who may or may not choose to become naturalised. 
Earlier today the Leader of the Opposition made a great deal of fuss about our migration policies and the state of the economy in this country being such that we were no longer attracting migrants. J draw to the House's attention Labor Party policy on this question. The Leader of the Opposition has been reported as saying that under Labor 'fewer migrants will come to Australia'. The Leader of the Opposition, who would like to be the nation's Prime Minister, seems to pick up arguments and use them just to suit the discussion of the day. On many occasions in the last couple of years he has said that we must cut migration back. The Government has cut our migrant intake back from 180.000 to 140,000 a year. But now because it is opportune to do so he has cited what the Government has set out purposely to do as an example of why this country is no longer attracting migrants. This is a very unworthy and unfair approach by the Leader of the Opposition, and indeed he certainly sells his country short as does no other man that I have seen in this House. I could say much more, because I have many thousands of migrants, including naturalised migrants, in my electorate, but because it is intended to pass this Bill before dinner I will now allow the Minister to conclude the debate. 
In making my comments brief and to the point, I must say that when one considers a parliamentary salary of some $9,000 and looks back at the contributions that have been made in this House by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  one can only draw the conclusion that we get what we pay for. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, parliamentary salaries are very low. I suggest that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party is laden with insincerity. The actual wording of the amendment to the Bill has been so framed as to capitalise to the best possible advantage on the majority of the people. Honourable members opposite see that this present Bill is designed to cater for a handful of people, so they have gone to the other extreme of opposing the Bill because they think that that will appeal to the majority of the people. It is purely a political stunt on the part of the Australian Labor Party. But on the other hand, the figures set out in the Bill represent a sizeable increase in the existing salaries of the officers concerned. 
On this occasion I want to express my concern about the system under which increases in pensions, parliamentary salaries and other salaries are paid from a date in the future, while the increases to be paid under this Bill are to be made retrospective. As far as I am concerned, what is good for one is good for the lot. If increases in pensions cannot be paid retrospectively, why should increases in the salaries paid to officers of the Public Service be paid retrospectively? In fact, why should increases in anybody's salary be paid retrospectively? 
I think that the honourable member for Grayndler was unfair in what he said tonight. He presented what could almost be described as a Press attitude. When I listened to him tonight making a hero of himself in the minds of people who may have been listening to him, I could not help thinking that that is the way in which newspapers talk about us. The honourable member for Grayndler has a smile on his face now. Knowing the way in which he puts away in a filing system everything that goes on, I am quite sure that he prepared his speech tonight from some articles written around the time of an announcement of proposed increases in parliamentary salaries, because what he said and what the newspapers have said were exactly the same. 
I see that the honourable member for Grayndler is more than smiling now; he is laughing - laughing heartily. On occasions when people have criticised increases in parliamentary salaries, the honourable member for Grayndler has said to me: "They are forgetting that we are still making a full time contribution to the Parliament and to the nation of Australia, and it is not quite fair to make a comparison with pensioners'. Yet tonight he did that very thing himself. In conclusion, it was unusual to hear this man, who is respected on occasions, making what was purely a political speech. We expect alot more from him than we heard tonight. 
 Mr Speaker,  I endorse your action because I do not consider that as  Mr Speaker  you have the right to decide the type of material I should see. I consider any decision on whether we should receive material as going to the core of censorship. The argument against censorship is that if people do not wish to see something they can avoid it. As members of Parliament we are subjected to the views of the population, and as a member of Parliament, I welcome public views at all times.  Mr Speaker,  I uphold your decision on this matter on the base that you as the  Speaker  have no right to decide whether members of Parliament will be subjected to this type of material. I am positive that some members of this House found the material in question quite offensive. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the information given by him to the House on 13th October 1971 concerning the vessel 'One and AH', will he now establish a fullscale marine inquiry. &lt;2) Can he say why the 'One and All' travelled to the Middleton Reef if his Department refused to give the vessel a commercial licence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth Government subsidies have been paid to individual organisations under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act since its inception in 1956 in the categories of (a) those in existence at the introduction of the Act; (b) those affected by the limitation clause whereby the full Commonwealth Government subsidy has not been paid but only subsidy matching State or local authority grants and (c) those which have commenced since the introduction of the Act 
What staff was employed by each organisation as at 30th June of each year since the introduction of the Act. 
 I had no intention this morning of making any reference to the subject which has been canvassed by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  but he made some reference to me. I think it is a good sign for the Government's chances at the next election when a Federal member of the Opposition sets out to try to confuse those more important issues which relate to Federal Government, which are more vital to people - foreign affairs, defence and questions on education - and which the Labor Party tries to hide from, by talking about the Brisbane City Council. The honourable member referred to the fact that his father was the last mayor of the old South Brisbane Council. I suppose for that reason he has some cause to have a considerable interest in it. I remind the House that my own grandfather was also an alderman of that council just prior to the time when the father of the honourable member for Bowman was the mayor. I cannot let the opportunity pass without correcting the impression that the honourable member for Bowman gave when he mentioned that the Liberal and Country Parties in the Queensland State 
Government collected a total of only 42 per cent of the total vote. The facts of life are that the honourable member for Bowman mentioned the votes of those 2 Parties and gave the impression that the Labor Party picked up all the rest. 

 Mi Keogh - Forty eight per cent. 
Forty eight per cent, the honourable member barks out. He is one who believes that whether it be 48 per cent, 38 per cent or 28 per cent, if his Party had a greater total vote than another political party then his party should take the reins of government. He completely dismisses the Democratic Labor Party. I know that the DLP is the horror of the life of the Australian Labor Party. 
The DLP has continued to cause great concern to the ALP which is all the time announcing systems which it hopes will lead eventually to that Party's disappearance. I can assure the honourable member for Bowman, if he looks at the composition of the Senate, that in my time here I have seen the Australian Democratic Labor Party grow from 3 to 5 members. Whilst the Liberal Party has not the fear of the DLP that his Party has, I am sure that this growth is a proof of the fact that the DLP will not be gone for some years. 
The honourable member for Bowman referred to local government matters. It might be said that just as the State Government did certain things, the Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane, because he did not win the State seat of Yeronga, has now declared that suburb of Brisbane an industrial area. Perhaps there is as much truth in that assertion as in what has been said by the honourable member for Bowman. 
What I want to raise today is the question of privacy and the right of individuals to converse. I was absolutely apalled by what took place during a television programme in which  Mr Michael  Willesee interviewed none other than  Mr Bob  Hawke. I know that I have a reputation in this place for having a great interest in the question of privacy and the individual. I have been surprised that members of the 
Labor Party, which pretends to be the champion of the individual and the masses on the question of privacy, have not uttered a word about what took place on this programme. If members of the Opposition had seen that programme and had been sincere in their claims I am sure that they would have reacted in the same way as I did. 
The person interviewed was  Mr Bob  Hawke - the leader from behind; the man who pulls the strings of the Australian Labor Party. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is the only man in the Labor Party who is genuinely interested in the question of privacy and the individual, but  Mr Hawke  also controls him like a puppet on a string. In this programme  Mr Hawke  came forward and said that he had a tape recording of a conversation between a gasoline or petrol outlet reseller and an executive of an oil company who had been with that company for some 35 years. I must admit that 1 was totally horrified that a man in  Mr Hawke's  position had so much disregard for the right of the individual as to be able to set himself up as a judge on that programme and justify to the viewers in his words why he thought he had the right to use that tape recording. 
What had happened was the unsuspecting oil company representative had gone to the place where a  Mrs Mobbs  - I have never been able to work out whether that is her real name or whether this was just a diversion - had talked with him. Probably a tape recorder-speaker had been planted in a greasy 44-gallon drum or a 4-gallon kerosene drum. Can you imagine it? She was probably hovering around making sure that the oil company representative did not move away from this area. She led him on. She went to  Mr Hawke  and produced for him this tape recording of a conversation which was supposed to be an example of how lousy and rotten the oil companies were. 
Let us go back. During the programme  Mr Hawke  said that this man had worked for the oil industry for 35 years and therefore he was a voice of authority and a man who knew what he was talking about. I can talk to a man in the Senate -  Senator Gair  - who has been in parliaments for 40 years, 30 years of which were as a member of the Labor Party, and who reckons that the ALP is not worth supporting. Just as  Mr Hawke  suggests that this oil company representative should be taken notice of because he has been with the industry for 35 years, so does the same principle apply to members of the Labor Party who have bailed out like fleas over recent years. 
This man who held the nation in chaos day in, day out - the man who said: 'When I am ready we can send the men back' and forgot completely the inconvenience that was being caused every man, woman and child in the nation - went to the nation on Television. He set himself up as the judge that this tape recording was important to the nation. He then followed this assertion by reference to the fact that he felt that he had been shadowed and bugged in the past and therefore bugging and shadowing were the order of the day. I do not believe I need to say too much more. People will understand exactly what I am driving at. But the nation is reaching a poor state of affairs when individuals, whether they be in Brisbane, Bourke, Perth or anywhere else, have to face a future in which a situation is created where tape recorded conversations between individuals can be justified. Can honourable members imagine what is going to happen?  Mr Hawke  talks about conciliation. The facts are that what he is doing is creating a situation where people will be even frightened to talk and make suggestions of compromise because they will never know when the conversations will appear in a court as evidence to be used against them. Some members of the Opposition are jumping around and shaking their heads and saying that this is taking things a little bit too far. I admit that perhaps it is. But I am just trying to project what could happen. 
The fact that not one member of the Opposition has seen any significance in the television debate that took place convinces me more than ever that the ALP is the last Party in this nation that is fit to take the Government benches. I am quite sure that after the next election, whenever it may be, those members of the Opposition who are left will still be sitting on that side of the House. Instead of sitting in their caucus meetings deciding who will take this portfolio and that portfolio they should pay a little bit of attention to matters relating to the private and individual liberties of the people of Australia. I am quite sure that they would be appreciated far more than they are now in spending their time indulging in false hopes. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Does the Minister recall my serious warnings in the Parliament on 29th March and those of the honourable member for Oxley and myself on 19th April about the activities of Travel House of Australia Pty Ltd? Does the Minister recall his Press release of 19th July in which it is stated that some States were prepared to enact legislation to control the activities of travel agents but that others were not convinced that legislation was necessary? Will the Minister tell the House which States were prepared to enact the legislation and whether the rest still require convincing? 
Finally, does the Minister consider speeches by private members a complete waste of time and can he advance any theory as to why only one newspaper, the now non-existent 'Sunday Australian', ran the story against a company which indulged in very extensive newspaper advertising? 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General able to inform the House whether any Federal laws would be broken if a third person were to use a tape recording of a private conversation on television or radio without the knowledge of both parties? Has the Minister any knowledge of anyone having done this recently and will he investigate to see whether the law has been broken and, if it has, commence to prosecute, no matter what position that person may hold in our society? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misreported, if that is the correct word, or misrepresented. Yesterday in my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General I referred to a tape recorded conversation. It has been reported in many newspapers today that I refer, e J to a tape recorded telephone conversation. 
The appropriation which has been set aside for the Parliament is $5,699,000. I would like to suggest that this $5,699,000 is representative of almost a complete waste of money, not because the parliamentary system has no value but because of the fact that we do not acknowledge that presently we. are in the latter part of the 20th century and the developments of recent times are such that it requires the. expenditure of more money to ensure that the parliamentary institution is fully effective. We have listened to a number of speeches tonight from both sides of the House and it is a pity that quite a number of our Ministers are presently engaged in other activities and will not be aware of the sentiments of a growing number of members from both sides of the Chamber. In my view the speech of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  was spot on; and the speech of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  was spot on. 
refer particularly to the question of assistance for members of Parliament and in due course will make a comparison between the attitude which prevails in this country and that which prevails in the United States of America. I know that there are many people who will quickly jump to their feet and say that the United States system is totally different and that the United States population is greater. All 1 ask is that consideration be given to proportional assistance to private members in this Parliament. Never has so much information been available to the nation and never have the elected representatives of the nation been so inadequately equipped to cope with it. Never has so much vital information filled the rubbish bins of the members of this Parliament. I know that some part of the performance of honourable members is relative to the electoral margin they have. If a member has a good seat like the seat of Bradfield he can direct his energies more towards Parliamentary work and safely forget about the social work to which the honourable member for Brisbane referred earlier. I am not saying that there is no social work in the Bradfield electorate but the facts of life are that the degree of affluence in certain electorates has a lot to do with the amount of social work done by members of this Chamber. 
In the United States every member of Congress is allocated at least $157,000 to employ a staff. When we consider the number of members in Congress and the number of people they represent, we find that the United States Congressman represents approximately 4 times the population that his Australian counterpart represents. He is allowed to employ up to 16 people on his staff. If we were more enlightened in this country we would recognise that if a United States Congressman is regarded as requiring 16 members on his staff then, on a population basis, an Australian member of Parliament should be entitled to 4 assistants. I do not propose that this be the case at this time, but let me remind those who may be listening and those who care to read Hansard that every member of this Parliament is allowed but one secretarial assistant in his office. In Canberra each member is allowed to share the services of one stenographer with 19 other members. This position is indicative of the lethargic acceptance of a situation and without doubt every member in this Parliament is guilty of allowing the perpetuation of the present situation, because not enough members are demanding more. A study in the United Kingdom recently reported in a book written by Barker and Rush and titled The Member of Parliament and his Information' contains very worthy information and I seek leave to have several pages of this book incorporated in Hansard. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  is shaking his head to indicate that this may be done. 
It is not and the honourable member for Sydney possibly would not understand it if it were. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member for Griffith has asked for the incorporation of a document in Hansard. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Personal Research Assistance for Members 
We wanted to measure the serious, positive demand among our respondents for the services of a personal research assistant, as we knew informally that some such demands existed. To have asked Members whether they would welcome such a service would probably not have helped us. Many Members, who would not refuse the services of an assistant if they were offered (but for whom the matter is not salient), would, no doubt, have answered this question affirmatively. 
Instead, we probed respondents informally when they answered our question on the adequacy of the Library's Research Division to discover whether they had a personal research assistant in mind when giving their views on the Division. We did not introduce the phrase 'research assistant', but tried to allow the Member to mention it if he so wished.1 
Just over one Member in four told us (either directly or in response to the probe we have described) that he would like a research assistant of  his  own; a further 7 per cent said they would like  a  share of one. Thus 35 per cent declared this demand. Taking those Members by party (see Appendix, Table 36)  the  Labour figure  for the  two views combined was  44  per cent and  the  Conservatives  25  per cent.3 Enthusiasm for personal assistants was higher among Members with less than  nine  years' service. Backbenchers  who  lacked frontbench experience werethe most interested group compared with either shadow Ministers (the more senior  of  whom have very similar assistance offered  by the  Conservative Research Department)  or ex-Ministers who had  returned  to the backbenches. 
There may be a  significant  link between the  secretarial support received by Members  and  their  stated wish for a  research assistant.  The  1964-6 entrants  were  rather more inclined to request  the 1 The twin dangers of this informal approach are, of course, under-prompting  a  Member who did have the research assistant scheme in his mind, and overprompting a Member who did not; an open question would probably have over-prompted many Members. By this stage in the interview we were used to each respondent's style of speech and, in general, feel that almost all Members who had the research assistant matter in mind were drawn out in the way we wanted. 2 In 1963-4 Malcolm Shaw conducted an enquiry into the support among all MPs and peers for a scheme whereby private funds would provide about twenty parliamentarians per annum with a temporary research assistant. The research assistant would be centrally recruited and also subject to time off for educational activities during his year's 'internship' at Westminster. About two-thirds of the respondents to  Mr  Shaw's near random sample said they favoured such a scheme (the response rate being about SO per cent). Although various considerations concerning the particular scheme advanced by this survey (and the inevitably 'leading' nature of the question asked) prevent direct comparison with our study, there are at least two  common  findings. Firstly, both surveys found many Members praising the Library staff but saying mat they held back work for fear of adding to the staff's burdens. Secondly, both found MPs giving quite  a  wide range of explanations of why they wanted a research assistant and what work they would expect from one. See M. Shaw, 'Assistants for Members of Parliament', Institute of Social Research*, October 1964. The PLP survey (p. 316  n)  found what 'The Guardian' described as a 'fairly widespread' demand among Labour Members for personal research assistants, whose salary would be found by the Exchequer and who would enjoy personal use of the Library (which is currently denied to all except Members) ('The Guardian', November  5.  1968). research assistant (bearing in mind the rather limited numbers involved) and were also more inclined, in the summer of 1967 at least, to employ a part-time secretary or share the services of a full-time secretary with three or more other MPs. The broad group of longer-serving Members, ex-Ministers now on the backbenches and Conservative shadow Ministers, all had fuller secretarial assistance than backbenchers who had never been on the frontbench. and they may have been influenced in their mentioning the research assistant idea by this fact 
What is the case for backbench MPs being offered the use of a fixed amount of public funds with which to engage a 'research assistant'? Drawing together the remarks of all those Members who expressed this desire we would say their basic point rests on the distinction between 'information work' and 'personal research support'. This is a functional distinction in their minds which is of general application, having nothing to do with their views on the strength and weaknesses of the Library's existing services or any other aspect of parliamentary work at Westminster. 
Information work' is concerned with knowing either certain techniques of mechanising or otherwise arranging information for easy classification and retrieval, or (and perhaps in addition) mastering the information flows of a chosen special field in a manner designed to help someone else absorb some parts of that material, as their needs require. This, runs the argument, is specialist work, requiring training and judgment and is best done by a collective service which offers its knowledge and skills freely to any Member or other client. 
Because it is an impartial and openly available service, however, it cannot go beyond offering the best available materials in the most useful way: even any 'analyses' of materials must be limited to devices for bringing together or highlighting certain of their features. The Library's Research Division and International Affairs Desk staff are very reluctant to 'work up' information into an argumentative brief or case of any kind, partly because they have always been under great pressure of work but also because they wish to avoid any possible charge of partisanship and failure to retain their objective standards. In this sense, the clerks of the House ate more flexible, often being prepared to re-draft and discuss a throughly partisan Question, amendment, new clause or early day motion (perhaps to make it sharper or subtler) on the purely political terms of the Member's own thinking. But a clerk, who occasionally enjoys a few minutes of partisan skullduggery with a Member who wants to make a point, is hardly a substitute for the continuing working relationship, involving partisan and policy considerations, which a Member could have with a personal assistant - even one whose services were shared with a colleague. 
These two characteristics of the MP-assistant relationship- its continuing nature and its policy or partisan commitment - may be taken separately. The Members advancing these views feel that no collective service, however well endowed, could ever be sufficiently close to their own work and interests to follow jobs through in a sequence and thus build up experience of both the Member's affairs and his fields of activity. Thus while the Library's Research Division (particularly an expanded service) may be capable of meeting the Member's specific requests for information, including a series of requests in a particular field, it could never supply the Member with a continuing flow of tailored work in the same way as a personal research assistant. Furthermore, the Research Division will act only on the initiative of the Member, whereas a research assistant may anticipate his Member's needs. As several of these Members said, 'research work', even of the kind which an academic may regard as rattier elementary, is often a matter of trial and error, false leads and the realisation afterwards that time was wasted on a point. A Member cannot burden even the most elaborate collective information service with every aspect of a policy interest or project which he may have in train, (a order to indulge in such activity, he must either have the service of a personal assistant who can pursue these matters under bis supervision or try to find the time to do it himself. The parliamentary life of continual meetings and perambulations simply does not allow the expenditure of his own time on these tasks if he is also to be active among his colleagues on at least some current political issues and interests, while preparing himself to make a worthwhile contribution on others. Even if a shared research assistant's services were available to him on only an intermittent basis (say, two or four weeks at a time) this would still permit a longer-term project to be undertaken which was considerably larger than anything likely to be available from a collective bureau, unless that bureau was of the proportions of the Legislative Reference Service in Washington. 
The other characteristic of the MP-assistant relationship - its policy or partisan flavour - is rather less definite because it is so subject to the individual Member's hypothetical preference. We received all three possible answers on the partisanship point from the small number of MPs in whose interviews the point came up: some thought it essential that the assistant should be a committed co-partisan, while others were not very concerned, and one or two thought they would actually shy away from a fellow party member and prefer a young person who was interested in politics but not ideologically committed. In our own view this is not an important matter. The need for balance and possible compromise would be all the greater if assistants were working for small groups of close colleagues who would probably each use the assistant's services in a somewhat different way. 
Whether the assistant should be a specialist in any field, or a generalist who must be ready to tackle anything, was also a matter for diverse views and would similarly, in our opinion, be best left for the individual Member to arrange. One Labour Member with a very close knowledge of one area of world affairs said he would ask the assistant, whom he would very much like to have, to be a general aide on home affairs; another Labour Member wanted, on the contrary, to share his own special interest in overseas and defence affairs with an assistant who would preferably have a reasonably relevant university degree; a Conservative interested in social policy said that the one-third or half of a research assistant's service, which he would like, would be best offered by a bright generalist interested in politics, not an expert social scientist*. We did not have the time to pursue these lesser points - although it is interesting to wonder why a Member who is very concerned with topics such as dangerous drugs and social security, as we know this Conservative Member is, should specifically point out that he would prefer someone with no background knowledge of these fields. It is our very informal impression that there is little objective reasoning behind these various preferences and that Members, like any other group, have different approaches to knowledge and work stemming from personality differences. 
Naturally, we also acquired some views against the idea of personal or research assistants for Members. Some ex-Ministers now on the backbenches (mostly Conservatives among our interviewed Members) offered generally disparaging remarks on the place of most backbenchers in the political system and, in a few cases, singled out the Labour entrants of 1964-6 who have academic backgrounds for particular displeasure. As we have already noted, these critical Members tended, incorrectly it appears, to equate this group with reformist opinion in the House as a whole. 
A Labour Member who entered the House in 1945 felt that an undue stress on research support for politicians carried dangers. It led to a lack of his own outside contacts and a lack of selfreliance and self-confidence - both bad traits in an MP. The research assistant idea would, be an interesting (although probably expensive and administratively difficult) development. He thought not more than one hundred assistants would, in fact, be required to satisfy the Members who care about it. 'It's the new, young, educated ones that want it. I'm sure there's a case, but we should be cautious. Hare-chasing is not the MP's job, while responding to public needs is. If the flood of new young MPs in 1945 and 1964 had been provided with assistants who were under their personal control, they would have pursued their hares instead of teaming necessary general political sense.' 
In warning against what he saw as the unduly American ways of thought of some of the newer Members, a Conservative, who had been in Parliament since 195Q (and who had served most of the period as a whip) offered a distinction between the two parties in their approach to 'research' and the House of Commons Library: Labour Members were 'more academic' and Conservatives more practical'. He is himself a 'gradual, steady expansionist1 on the matter of the Library and (unlike some other Conservatives of his age group) has no fears that the demands on it of the newer Labour Members will produce an extended service, which will be seen as a white elephant in a few years' time following those Members' parliamentary demise at the polls or a falling-off of their enthusiasm. We are sure that this Member is correct in his broad 'academic' - practical' characterisation of Labour and Conservative approaches, at least if those words are used loosely. Our results on Library use and perceptions show that Conservatives tend to have a less demanding approach which is pitched more at the 'reference' rather than the 'research' level. 
One Conservative who certainly seemed to adopt a most 'practical' approach (and who was fairly hostile to the 'Labour lecturers' and their alleged ways) spoke against Members being 'spoonfed' with final versions of briefs or reports: personal study and analysis is essential. This applies both to partisan material from the Conservative Research Department and to the first-class information and statistical service which ought to be available from the Library but which (in this Member's experience) unfortunately is not. 'But, better than that, I want a research assistant - for personal, trained, continuing support. However, even a good research assistant is no substitute for one's own expert, up-to-date, practical contacts in the field.' Clearly, the demand for an assistant and the emphasis on being personally involved in the practical affairs of any field of interest can go together in an individual Member. 
None of the thirty-nine Members whom we interviewed and who mentioned that they wanted a research assistant dwelt on the administration of an actual scheme. All seemed to share the assumption that public funds, would, in some way, pay people who had been individually recruited by Members, or small groups of Members, and whose responsibility would be solely to the Members. Some respondents stressed the personal and political link necessary to such a working relationship while others (usually Conservatives) stressed only the personal link and discounted the political views of the assistants they would like to have. One Labour Member declared that a 'taxi rank' service in which assistants were detailed off to work for any Member on a ad hoc basic of a few days or hours work be hopeless and we suspect almost every other Member we spoke to would agree with that view. Indeed, only one Member spoke of this kind of service, and he also may have preferred personal assistance if we bad asked him. 
It is interesting that the assumption among Members of a personal-recruitment scheme was so apparent. Members may wish to avoid the distribution of research assistants falling to the party whips or their regulation being part of the House's own administration. It is probable that the essentially personal relationship involved in this work is the decisive factor. Purely personal recruitment has considerable practical advantage for the public, as well as for the Member who wants to get the right person for his needs. To put Members to the trouble and modest expense of advertising for and recruiting their own personal assistant would be a useful barrier against the Member who would otherwise be tempted to 'put his name down' for an assistant to be provided by a central recruiting authority. 
1 thank the House. I go back to what I said a moment or two ago. I do not understand why the Ministry - it could be a Labor or a Liberal-Country Party Ministry; I am not being political in seeking to shelve the blame upon the Ministry - fails to recognise that this nation would be best served by members who are fully informed. The  general public undoubtedly is cynically contemptuous of this institution but, sadly, the contempt is wrongly founded. The great majority of people think we do nothing. That is not true. But if they believe that we achieve little as backbenchers then they are correct. I do not know what motivates the reluctance to allow members to have research assistants but if ever I were convinced that the Ministry did this on purpose so that it is protected against informed criticism I would quickly have more respect for the brain of a sparrow than for the Ministry, because such an attitude on its part would be wrong and to the detriment of this nation. 
It can be said that we have a greatly improved library service; but it is an improvement on what? It is an improvement on a system that was more suited to the days when books were printed by chipping from sandstone. Today there is a host of information available but hardly any member is able to cope with it because he has not the facilities to drag out the information. I clearly recall the comment of a top public servant in Brisbane 2 years ago when my hardworking jack of all trades secretary was away for four or five days. He said to me: 'You do not need a replacement for those four or five days'. People have the wrong impression that members of Parliament do absolutely nothing, and I would suggest that if honourable members were given secretarial assistance - one research officer - even if we had to start by sharing one officer with one or two other members, the quality of debate in this chamber would improve greatly. It is true that because of the conditions under which we work the quality of debate is not as great as it could be.  I  hope that those honourable members who have heard me speak tonight will take some time out to look at the information I incorporated in Hansard because the United Kingdom study shows that members of Parliament who have been in the English Parliament for more than 9 years lose their enthusiasm to do a good job and so the demand for secretarial support wanes. The study also shows that in Britain there is a diminution of interest in those who have been Ministers and have returned to the back benches after having reached the ultimate in political achieve ment, if being in the Ministry could be regarded as such, and it is no doubt the ambition of many. As a member who has represented the seat of Griffith for only 6 years, and intends to be here longer, I demand more for the people I represent. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is now using laser beams to listen to telephone conversations from up to 2 miles distance? In view of the fact that the previous method of telephone tapping by ASIO required the Attorney-General's permission, will the Prime Minister consider that this principle should apply also to the use of laser beams? Finally, will the Prime Minister consider placing a total import ban on the procurement of such equipment by anyone, including State police forces but excluding only an organisation properly authorised to protect this nation's security? 
It gives me considerable pleasure to speak on the Aged Persons Hostels Bill this afternoon, and at the outset I offer my sincere congratulations to both the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Government for what they have done in this field of social welfare. We have heard during the debate this afternoon a number of comments from both sides of the House; from the Opposition side they have been critical comments. I suppose at this time of the year, just prior to an election, this is only to be expected. Anyone who cares to read today's Hansard tomorrow and to analyse what has been said by the Opposition will see that what Opposition members have said comprises fairly empty comments. This in itself is an acknowledgment that what the Government is doing is of great value. I heard one Opposition member earlier refer to the Bill as trifling, and as a result I made some calculations to see how it will affect my own electorate. In my electorate there is the Hospice at East Brisbane which will now qualify for 40 new beds, the Lutheran Church Senior Citizens Home at Woolloongabba which will qualify for 14 beds and the Bethany Aged Christians Home at Norman Park which will qualify for 7 beds. The Hospice will receive S3 12,000, the Lutheran Church at Woolloongabba $109,000 and the Bethany Aged Christians Home $54,000. I can assure honourable members opposite that when I conveyed this news to the people in charge of those homes they did not regard it as trifling. 
If we were to look closely at the effects that this proposed Act will have throughout the nation we would find that it would be most beneficial, particularly to Australia's older citizens. We have heard comments this afternoon from various honourable members about the problems of growing old, and the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech the alarming trend in the community for families and relatives to look to nursing homes to solve the problems of the accommodation and care of the aged. He also mentioned that many young couples today are either unable or unwilling to care for their aged parents. 1 would prefer to think that they were unable rather than unwilling, because I believe that if a person is in a position to do so - and I may be branded old fashioned for saying this - he or she has an obligation to do something for the parents. Upon looking at what this Liberal-Country Party Federal Government has done, I, as a member of one of those Parties, bear no shame for what this Government has done for the aged, because since it came to power in 1949 a great deal has been done. Prior to that time - and I know that there are Opposition members who would probably condemn their own Party's performance when in government - very little was done to assist the aged in this country. We have seen the introduction of the Aged Persons Hostels Bill and this, coupled with the Aged Persons Homes  Bill  and the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act certainly is taking the worry and concern out of growing old. 
In my electorate in the last couple of years 3 or 4 blocks of units for aged persons have been erected jointly by the Commonwealth and State governments. Single pensioners who do not have a home of their own and who have been found to be living in below standard circumstances are given a unit for which the single rate is about $3.50 a week and the rate for a married couple is approximately $5 a week. In my time as the honourable member for Griffith, I have seen the establishment of the Panorama Lodge by the Methodist Church where approximately 70 people now have accommodation in what I regard as very satisfactory surroundings. All these actions combined are certainly tangible evidence that this Government has been a government that has cared. When I look at the table and see the Minister for Social Services sitting there, I recognise him as being symbolic of the concern which has been shown over the years and I know that he derives a great deal of satisfaction from witnessing the strides that have been taken in recent times. 
The Opposition was fairly political earlier today in denigrating what is being proposed in these Bills so, just as it has been political, I feel it is fitting that I should conclude my comments today on a political note. I do not regard politics as being just a game because politics involves people. Each side of the House attempts to make political capital out of the other side and for our side to ignore this completely would be to let down the entire nation. The Aged Persons Homes Act permits local councils to erect aged persons homes. This is another benefit which has been introduced by this Government. In my home city of Brisbane we have a Labor city council which has a budget larger than that of Tasmania. Many people presently are wrestling with the rights and wrongs of what is being done by the State Government in that city. Since the introduction of the provision which enables local councils to contribute one-third of the cost of aged persons homes, that Australian Labor Party city council has not driven even a bent wooden peg into the ground. Yet, honourable members opposite masquerade around pretending they belong to a Party of concern. Certainly, it is a Party of concern around election time. 
Honourable members opposite claim that everything that the Government is doing at this time is just political and is designed to win votes. What is politics all about? Governments stay in power by responding to the wishes of the people and if, on occasion, a government can more than anticipate the needs of the people through proper planning, I believe that in so doing it is showing the nation that it is not a tired government that has been in office for 23 years and is showing that it is not time that it was kicked out because it is lethargic. It is showing that it is able, as it has been in the last 2 decades, to lead this nation into the future as capably as it has been led in the past. 
In conclusion, I wish again to congratulate the Minister for Social Services on this innovation. The Aged Persons Hostels Bill is a little different from the Aged Persons Homes Bill in that it stipulates that no key money is required to gain entry into these new hostels. This means that in the electorate of Griffith some 61 aged persons who could not otherwise have afforded to take advantage of the. Aged Persons Homes Act will soon be able to seek and obtain accommodation to ensure that their latter years are pleasant years. 
I intend to speak for only one or two moments. I am quite certain that the entire city of Brisbane is gratified at the fact that the repositioning of the Brisbane airport is very near to becoming a reality.When I look back at my own campaigning over the last 6 years and at the campaigning of the honourable member for Lilley, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  for this change, it shows that one can achieve things in this place if one is persistent enough. Another point is that the repositioning of the Brisbane airport has been endorsed not only by the Federal Government and the State Government but also by the Brisbane City Council. I suppose that every time a change is made to the advantage of some people there will be concern about the disadvantages being created for others. 
I refer to what was put forward by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  The honourable member, who has been a member of this place for  2i  years, referred to the number of landings he has made at Brisbane Airport. He said that nearly every time the landing has been from the Moreton Bay or easterly direction. The concern he expressed over the north-south runway - if I can describe it in loose terms as such - is not really justified. Brisbane Airport has never had a north-south jet runway. It has had only the east-west runway. During windy conditions aircraft have been able to come into Brisbane Airport from the west. There have been occasions on which the electorates of Lilley and Griffith and the people of Norman Park, Hawthorne and Hamilton have been subjected to a great deal of noise. I notice that the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr McLeay)  is sitting at the table. I would like to plug again for him to convey to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that as far as we are concerned in Brisbane the sooner the airport is shifted the better it will be for a great number of people. 
The worry and concern expressed by the honourable member for Bowman are understandable. But if, over the years, aircraft have managed to operate in an east-west and west-east direction, I cannot see why they will frequently have to use a northsouth runway. However, I make the comment that if the Department of Civil Aviation is to do the right thing it will insist that, no matter what the extra cost may be, planes which take off from Brisbane Airport will be required to go as far out into Moreton Bay as possible before they swing back over the city area on the direct flight path to Sydney. I say this because planes which fly over the city at altitudes of 3,000, 4,000 or 5,000 feet are still noisy. While people who work at the drawing board or who are based here in Canberra, where the airport is on the outskirts of the city, may consider that 3,000 or 4,000 feet is reasonably high, I can assure them that the quality of life is not as good as it could be while aircraft pass over a city every few minutes at the height I have just mentioned. 
We have listened to a number of members of the Opposition today decrying the purpose of the amendments which are presently before the House to update the homes savings grant scheme. Many of them have made certain suggestions about conditions in Australia, and of course some of those suggestions have a deal of truth in them; but although they have a deal of truth in them there is no escaping the fact that Australia has the best home ownership record of any nation. Those members who have spoken suggest, correctly, that it is not easy for a young married couple to own a home in the 1970s. I would like them to point to the day when it was easy for anyone to own a home. If we want to talk about Australia as the land of milk and honey I think we are being unrealistic. I think it is appropriate to turn to the book 'Towards a New Australia under a Labor Government' and these comments on page 132 by the shadow Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren): 
We socialists have always been dreamers. 
If ever there was a dreamer I see it in the man who one day hopes he might be the Minister for Housing. The facts are that it will always be a struggle for people to own a home because a home represents the biggest single thing that the average person will ever aspire to own or will ever own. 
The amendments which are presently under discussion have raised the maximum value of a home which may qualify for a grant from $17,500 to $22,500 and raised the grant from $500 on acceptable savings of $1,500 to $750 on acceptable savings of $2,250. The limit on the amount of savings in any one savings year that may qualify for a grant will be raised from $600 to $900. Conditions relating to savings with credit unions will be eased. Referring to the last improvement first, I think anybody who is interested in what is being done to involve credit unions should read the speech of the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Dobie),  who very knowledgeably covered that subject and also pointed out to the credit unions that under a Labor government there will be very little future for them. 
This subject of the home savings grant scheme is one that has commanded my interest and attention since I made my maiden speech in this Parliament in 1967. It is interesting to compare some of the figures today with some of the figures of that time. At the time I made my maiden speech the Commonwealth Government had paid out some $34m to young home buyers. Today this figure has reached a total of SI 08m. Today 250,000 couples have been able, because of the Homes Savings Grant Act, to acquire their own homes perhaps a little earlier than they might normally have anticipated or who alternatively have had the burden of paying off their homes lightened. The shadow Minister for Housing in April and May this year described the homes savings grant scheme as a bribe. 
The Minister endorses that this is a fact. In fact it was carried in 2 newspaper articles. As the honourable member for Reid applies the description 'a bribe' to the scheme, I ask him whether he considers the payment of social services, child endowment, age and repatriation pensions and payments for education or other fields in which the Government is involved as simply bribes. As one who is closer to the age group that this Act assists and benefits most, I might say to the honourable member for Reid that young people have as much right to be considered and assisted by government as has any other group in our community. I am sure that at the coming election the young people of this nation will be behind this Government for what it has done and that the shadow Minister for Housing will remain a shadow. I doubt whether even his own Party will allow that shadow to haunt the House for the following 3 years in its present capacity. The honourable member for Reid is a man to whom we can attribute so many silly statements. Perhaps they have been motivated by genuineness but we need more than genuineness; we need common sense and not errors. 
Before I refer to some other points I should like to make a passing reference to some of the issues raised tonight by members of the Opposition. At a time when an election is just around the corner the Opposition is indulging in some carrot hanging. Perhaps this is an indication that members of the Opposition are not really familiar with what this Government has done in the field of repatriation because previous speakers tonight, including the shadow Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and a number of others advocated the policy of the Opposition whereby various rates of pension would be equated with the minimum wage. 
For a start they suggested that the intermediate rate pension should be 70 per cent of the minimum wage. The minimum wage is approximately $31.80 a week and 70 per cent of that represents is $36.26. I have a copy of the new tax rates contained in the schedule of income tax instalment deductions. If we subtract the tax of $2.95 payable by a working person from the minimum wage, we have the Australian Labor Party proposing a pension rate some 70c less than the rate that the Government has proposed in this Bill. In relation to a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner the tax scale would require payment by a working person of $5.65 a week on the minimum wage of $51.80 a week, which means that, if the Australian Labor Party does what it says it will do, the effective rate for a TPI pensioner would be $46.15 while the rate paid by the Government is to increase by $3.50 to $48. That is a difference of nearly $2, so I know what the TPI pensioners will be doing when they vote. Remarkably, the Labor Party is either ignorant of the rates to be paid or it intends to do what it says it will do. 
What this Government has done has been most worthy. To take one example, a single TPI pensioner with no other means but his war pension and who now receives a service pension is paid $44.50 a week war pension and $1 a week service pension, a total income of $45.50 a week. Under the proposals outlined in this Bill, his war pension will be increased by $3.50 a week and his service pension by $5 a week, giving him an income of $54 a week, which is an increase of almost $10 a week. A married TPI pensioner and his wife who have no other means but their war pensions and who receive service pensions will similarly enjoy substantial increases. Their total war and service pension entitlement is now $66.29 a week. In their case, the war pension increase will be $3.50 a week and their service pension increase will be $2.50 a week for the TPI pensioner and $5.50 a week for his wife, giving them a total income in war and service pensions of $77.79 a week. 
If the couple have 2 children aged, say, 13 years and 15 years, the increase in service pension will be $6.61 a week for the TPI pensioner and $9.25 a week for his wife. When the children's pensions and education allowances are added, the family income will be $102.28 a week. I do not think that any fair minded person could accuse this Government of having abandoned its responsibility in this field. Another pleasing aspect of the Bill is that the Government has at long last seen fit to alter the general rate pension set-up whereby previously the pension was payable at different levels according to the ranks the recipients held during service. As far as I am concerned, if a man has suffered as a result of his war service there should be no difference in the rate to which he is entitled whether he were a colonel, a general, a corporal or a private. A man is either discharged from the Services fit to return to his normal style of occupation with all his health or he is not. It does not matter what his rank was. I do not believe that the past policy on this aspect has, to say the least, shown a healthy attitude. 
In recent months the criticism which has been levelled at the Repatriation Department and at ex-servicemen who receive - I do not use the word 'enjoy' - some type of recognition through the Department in the form of the various pensions has grown out of all proportion, and in my view it has become very unfair criticism. I suppose that the beginning of it all was a little orange book titled 'Be in it Mate'. If all those who thought that the 'Little Red School Book' was a dirty little booklet were to pick up and read 'Be in it Mate', they would be even more sickened. It was written by a John Whiting from South Australia and it more or less conveys the experiences of a fictitious  Dr Andrews  who is supposed to be a young medical officer working in an Australian repatriation hospital. At the end of the book the author says that he realises that the circulation of the book will draw the attention of the 'big guns'. 
Yes, it is a little orange book titled 'Be in it Mate*. But here is this fearless man speaking out and telling everybody what a big racket repatriation is - according to him. 
I am a generation removed from the generation that fought in the Second World War but I believe .that the great majority of young people today, while they would never condone or agree to payments being made to people who did not really deserve them, would be in favour of payments being made to those who did deserve them. Like every other system that is administered by man and not by computers, mistakes certainly will be made on occasions. There certainly will be a few recipients of the various forms of pension who really should not be in receipt of them, but the great majority of those who receive benefits are deserving of them. 
I have acted as an advocate on a tribunal. It lasted an hour to an hour and a half, and we went down the drain. Kaputt We did not win. Yet, on reading this little orange book written by John Whiting, one would think .that every time a politician poked his nose into a repatriation case it was a green light for the Department to say: 'Quick, fellows, we are going to be in trouble. It does not matter what this fellow has wrong with faim - give to him what he asks, because a politican is involved.' I believe that these insinuations are an insult to every departmental officer and to every member of this Parliament. I know that each and every one of us will endeavour to do the right thing by those people whom we are privileged to represent. No doubt many of us act in our capacity as representatives of the people to the fullest degree possible. But no member of Parliament is prepared to send his reputation down the drain by trying to win one vote from a constituent who is not entitled to something, when he has to face 60,000 voters. 

 Dr Hecker is another South Australian doctor who wrote this book, and is in his early forties. As far as I am concerned, both doctors have bent and twisted minds. They are against repatriation and politicians. They are against ex-servicemen. I will never know how they could have continued to work as doctors in repatriation hospitals when so much was bothering them. If they were men of fibre they would have walked out the moment the thought dawned upon them that the place was full of malingerers and undeserving people. We live in a tolerant society. Of these 2 doctors, who are poor examples of the medical profession, one has seen fit to produce a publication such as this. I have never seen ex-servicemen's organisations resort to those tactics. Recently the  President  of the Returned Services League in Queensland - my namesake,  Mr Cameron  - suggested that many of the doctors in the Repatriation Department today are of a generation a little removed from the war scene. There is a deal of truth in the suggestion that, no matter what the tribunals may decide, basically the decision is made by the doctors who do the examination. Let me come back to the book 'Be in it, Mate'. The doctor is indirectly criticising his colleagues - people in the same profession. As far as I can see, the Repatriation Department is a very fair department and at all times will do what it can for ex-servicemen. 
Perhaps it was the advocate. I do not know. Perhaps it was the evidence from some of these doctors. I want to refer to the policy that has been pursued by this Government in the past and the policy which should be pursued in the future in relation to staff for the Department of Repatriation. During the Second World War some 11,568 employees of the Commonwealth of Australia enlisted. A great many of these returned to the Commonwealth Public Service after the Second World War. By 1950 approximately one-half of all people employed in the Repatriation Department were ex-servicemen. I believe that this has contributed to the great degree of understanding that departmental officers have shown in their dealings with people making application for the various repatriation benefits. I am not saying that a person who has not served would not understand - far from it. But I think the fact that there have been men who have been able to say: I was in the show myself; I know what you are talking about', has brought about a considerable amount of confidence in the Department and its work. 
Since 1965, some 3,000 Commonwealth employees have been called up for national service. I do not know how many have served in Vietnam, but I suggest that in the future a greater effort be made to recruit into the Department of Repatriation those who have served either in Vietnam or as national servicemen, because those thousands of young Australians who have recently served abroad have to be catered for in the future. As at 31st December 1971 in the central office of the Department here in Canberra there was only one returnee from Vietnam, in New South Wales there were 8, in Victoria 5, in South Australia 3 and in Queensland 6, making a total of 23. I would like to leave the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  with the thought that some effort should be made to encourage many other people who have returned from service in the Vietnam war to take an interest in the Repatriation Department as a career, because in the years to come they will be the ones who will be dealing with the soldiers who have recently served overseas. 1 am not saying that the young people in the Department of Repatriation today who have not served are incapable of handling the repatriation cases, but I see advantages - even though they may be simply psychological - in having a component of people in the Department who understand what active service has been all about. 
In concluding, I repeat my belief that it is not possible for people just to go along to the Department and say: '1 have been shivering at night lately. I want a repatpension'. There is a rather filthy cartoon in this little yellow book I referred to earlier which shows a woman lying on a bed. It is entitled: 'Cookie having an attack of War Nerves.' lt shows her lying on her bed, scratching her neck, knees crossed, looking at a blood pressure chart and then scratching her back. It is making a big joke ot war nerves. Perhaps the author did not have the courage to say what he was trying to suggest in that cartoon, namely, that a lot of the fellows who served overseas and who are now suffering from war nerves are just bunging on a big act. As a non-medical man, I cannot judge. Recently I saw a man at my home who was in his early fifties and who was convinced that some of the things wrong with him were as a result of his war service. I would not know whether they were, but this man was actually crying from frustration. He did not believe that he was getting a fair go. I believe there is a possibility that his war service was a contributing factor. This man in his fifties was, until a few years ago, as strong and as able as anyone in this House. But now he is weak. His war service may have contributed to that state. I remind those who are able to give the nod when it is deserved, that there is a clause in the Act which requires that, when there is some doubt, the pension should be granted. Australians would acquit 10 men who were guilty in preference to convicting one who was not, and the same thing should apply to the Repatriation Act and its administration. 
There is nobody on this side of the House who over the last two or three years has been more vocally critical than I of the activities of Qantas Airways. On occasions I have found myself in agreement with some of the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  but it is now fast reaching the stage where the honourable member for Newcastle could be compared  -  I say this kindly, not meaning to be insulting - with a dog with a bone. He has found this Qantas bone. He shakes it, buries it, digs it up again, gives it another shake and does not know when to put it down. Some of the terms of the amendment moved today would have been more appropriate 18 months ago. I refer particularly to the second part of the amendment, which suggests at this late stage that a select committee be set up to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management. 
I too have been critical in the past, but in defence of Qantas I would say that in recent times it has got the message loud and clear. There has been a definite updating of its attitude and a throwing off of the nostalgia, of living in the glories of the past. There has been a recognition that the airline industry is the most competitive in the world. I hope that Australia will benefit from this new aggressiveness by bringing to this country tourists who will bring in foreign currency and so in the long term help us in our development. I have said on many occasions that as a nation we are but babes in arms when it comes to the handling of the tourist industry and I hope that after the next election, when this Government is returned, we will see a recognition of what has been done in other countries and an application of some of those principles in this country. 
The honourable member for Newcastle in moving the amendment which he hopes no doubt will be voted for by honourable members on this side of the House, suggests that the Bill should be delayed for a number of reasons, one being until firm arrangements are made for substantial co-production procedures on imported aircraft. I cannot help but wonder how much homework the honourable member has done in the preparation of his speech tonight because the facts of life are that up until May this year the Boeing Corporation had placed in Australia $7. 3m worth of orders, consisting of orders for such things as rudders, elevators and wing span ribs for the 727 aircraft, and we have now reached the stage where Australia is the only source of supply for those components. Yet the honourable member for Newcastle suggests that the Government is doing nothing on the 747 aircraft In April discussions were held with the vice  president  of Boeing on an offset order of $20m. If honourable members were to take seriously the terms of this amendment they would think that the Government has done nothing. This is not correct. The only reason that these orders were not placed was our inability to cope with some of the sophisticated requirements of the 747, and this is understandable for a young and developing country. Furthermore, Boeing has stationed engineers in Australia on a permanent basis for the next 3 years in connection with offset projects. 
The honourable member for Newcastle suggests that the Bill should be delayed because nothing has been done. I would say with great respect to the honourable member that a great effort has been made and that we have achieved benefits for this country. 1 am quite certain that if more opportunities present themselves this Government will be able to foresee them and take every opportunity to obtain what is offering. The honourable member for Newcastle suggests also that the Bill should be delayed because the terms of the loan agreement are unknown to him. In his second reading speech the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  set out the arrangements for the financing of this sixth aircraft which will be by virtue of an application to the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America for a loan of $11. 3m at 6 per cent interest. These negotiations have successfully concluded and at this time other negotiations are under way to obtain the rest of the money which, I believe, will come from a continental source. The facts of life are that this Bill must go through. There is nothing devious on the part of this Government. The honourable member for Newcastle suggests that we should delay the passing of the Bill to enable the Opposition to set its own conditions after the next election. The Australian Labor Party has been living on hope for some 23 years now, and if this Government had had to put everything off until after each coming election nothing would have been done in the last 2 decades. This attitude has pervaded the thinking of the honourable member for Newcastle since last July when he made Press statements condemning Qantas and its board of directors. So it is nothing new. 
There is nothing unfair or hidden in the decision to bring on this Bill. The Government at this time has to make substantial contract payments which are due on delivery, and the rest of the amount sought in the Bill is to cover the pre-delivery payments. The honourable member for Newcastle has not at any stage in the last couple of years stopped pursuing Qantas. I do not know what Qantas has done to him, whether it lost his luggage in some foreign port or whether there is some other reason why he is so anti-Qantas, but I would hope that after the next election, if he retains his shadow portfolio, he sees a little good in Qantas and recognises that it is now endeavouring - I use the words 'now endeavouring' - to get back on the path of success. That Qantas may make a loss this year - only the second time in the history of the airline - is something which causes me little bother. We most certainly would like to see a profit made but, if Qantas can go through this most difficult period in world aviation history with only slight losses, it is doing fairly well. I am quite certain that the infusion of new blood in the board of Qantas - 3 new directors have been appointed - which I sincerely hope is but a beginning is already showing results. I hope that there will be a continued recognition that the directors who are appointed in the next few years should be men who are capable of grappling with and handling the most competitive industry in the world today. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether his attention has been drawn to recently expressed views that there is good ground for saying that our criminal law urgently needs a major overhaul and that thought should be given to a royal commission on crime and punishment. Is the Minister inclined to agree that the law is heavily weighted against the poor and uneducated and in favour of white collar criminals, and that this in itself is enough reason for us to take the comments of  Mr Justice  Fox very seriously? 
In speaking to the Estimates for the Department of the Interior I wish to refer to a number of speeches which I have made and questions which I have raised in this House. Because the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  was only recently appointed to this portfolio I would hope that he will take some note of what I am about to say about things which happened in the past of which he is probably unaware. It is time that he became acquainted with some of the realities of the manner in which the electoral system is being exploited. I refer to page 1503 of Hansard of 28th September 1967. I hope that the Minister will take down these references and read them later. I refer him to a question I asked in this House on 3rd October 1967 which appears at page 1561 of Hansard and to a question which I asked on 15th October 1968 which appears at page 1915. I refer also to a speech I made on 28th November 1968 which commences at page 3485 of Hansard. 
The subject I referred to on those occasions was postal voting. I believed with the faith that only a recently arrived member of the House of Representatives could command that something would be done after the Government's attention had been drawn to what was going on, particularly in the State of Queensland. At that time I pointed out to the House the manner in which the postal voting system was being played with in Queensland and the manner in which the system was being exploited. I would say it is still being exploited to an extent which would command the respect even of Al Capone because he himself is credited with having had an interest in various election results during his day. The facts of life are that we as a government have done absolutely nothing over the years to come to grips with this problem to eliminate the malpractices which have continued throughout Australia and more particularly within the State of Queensland. I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that in the election of 1966 on which I did a lot of work, postal votes represented 2.4 per cent of the total number of votes cast. In Queensland, postal votes represented well over 3.5 per cent. In these days when people await so eagerly the results of various polls which are conducted amongst the population and look for a 0.5 per cent swing or a 1 per cent swing one way or the other it is obvious that the percentages I have cited are significant. 
We do not allow a political party representative to follow a voter into a polling booth on election day to see how he votes or to take his ballot paper and fill it in for him. 
If the honourable member for Sturt wanted to open up his heart I bet that he could rewrite the books on how to rig ballot papers. 
Listen to him. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The House will come to order, f ask the honourable member for Griffith to keep to the subject under discussion. 
I was sidetracked, unfortunately. 1 was about to say that we do not even allow a political party representative to wear the badge of his Party when he is anywhere near a polling booth yet we continue to allow political party representatives to march into the homes of the ill and the aged and to take from those people, by gentle persuasion or other methods, their ballot papers and fill them in. 1 have said all of this some years ago and at the time I first raised (his matter in my original speech when I first came to this House I did so with eyes wide open and I was filled with hope. These were the words at the opening of my speech in 1967: 
I believe that each and every person sees something unsavoury in the world in which he lives which impels him to make a private vow that if he ever is in a position to correct the situation he will do his best in (hat endeavour. I have now found myself in the position to make a contribution to my electors in the Brisbane electorate of Griffith to the electors of Queensland, to the electors of Australia and to the cause of democracy by directing the attention of the Committee to  a  situation which I believe needs a complete overhaul. 
I see that the Minister has turned around and appears to be contemplating the remarks which I made at that time. I hope that history will record this Minister, because his predecessors have failed, as having done something about cleaning up the Australian electoral system. How can any of us in this place make comments about Vietnam and other South East Asian countries being undemocratic because their polling systems are open to outside direction when we in this country have an electoral system which is open to exactly the same thing. If Australia pretends to stand up as an example of a true democratic country with an honest electoral system then we owe it to ourselves to do something about it. 1 know that the Minister will say that at the beginning of 1971 an electoral BUI was introduced and that it still has not gone through. But the amendments contained in that Bill are not satisfactory. They are totally inadequate to eliminate the malpractices which exist. I hope that I will be in this place after the next general election. 1 do not really need to hope that because J am sure that I shall be here. But I give notice now that if something is not done very shortly I will continue a campaign which will make it unpleasant for anyone who may be the Minister for the Interior. I owe it not only to myself but also to electors throughout Australia to do something because as 1 see the system, to use the words I used in 1968, it is on the nose and if Australia is to hold its head high it will need a complete overhaul. As far as I am concerned, 5 years' notice is long enough for anybody. 
Does the Minister for Trade and Industry agree that if the oil refinery employees do not return to work at 6 a.m. tomorrow the city of Brisbane and surrounding areas will grind to a halt? In view of the fact that we have been unable to assist Brisbane or Queensland by providing any technically qualified Army people to run the refinery, what is proposed in the event of the refinery employees not returning to work? 
-Will the Treasurer explain to the House the implications of a capital gains tax? Has the Government any intention of imposing a capital gains tax? Does the Minister suspect that any group, given the opportunity to do so, would in all probability introduce such a tax? 
Though my months of action speak much louder than words, I have been unable to enter into the debate before now as I have been attending a meeting of a sub-committee of the Foreign Affairs Committee that has been dealing with the subject of foreign aid. I regret very much that this debate went on without my knowledge. 
Be quiet, lt is my turn to speak now. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  Order! There are far too many interjections. I do not want to take up the honourable member's time. It is not fair to him co do so. But I have to call the Committee to order. 
I am absolutely disgusted at the speech made in my absence by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  I am quite pleased that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was able to enlighten the Committee on some of the real facts relating to Evans Deakin Industries Ltd. The honourable member for Bowman thinks that Evans Deakin is a prawn vessel fishing off the coast of Manly in Moreton Bay. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be put. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr  Jones's) be agreed to. 
Will the Minister for Immigration assure the House that any person resident in Australia by virtue of a visitor's visa or any temporary permit who is convicted on drug charges will be dealt with in the same swift manner as one Joe Cocker was, so that it will be clearly seen by all that it is not *ho you are but rather what you have done that counts? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to a decision by the Queensland Court of Criminal Appeal to reduce, a Hong Kong heroin pusher's gaol term from 5 to 3 years? Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Chief Justice considered that the quantity of heroin involved was one reason why the sentence should be reduced? Will the Minister tell the House how many doses can be made from 5 ounces of heroin? Finally, will the Minister seek the co-operation of all States in order to have a teach-in for some members of the so-called learned judiciary so that they, too, might learn of the destructive qualities of a narcotic such as heroin? 
I move: 
That, in the motion relating to the construction of a telephone exchange at Woolloongabba, Queensland, all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'because the telephone exchange proposed is a high-rise building in a non high-rise area and makes inadequate provision for car parking, the construction of a telephone exchange at Woolloongabba, Queensland, be referred back to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works'. 
I have not come to this decision lightly because I recognise fully that the PostmasterGeneral's Department is faced with the problem of having this huge new complex completed by 1975. However, let us turn our minds back 2 or 3 weeks and recall the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when he spoke in this House on 11th October during the debate on the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill. He said:  lt is the geographical distribution of population and industry rather than total scale which calls for our attention. 
Of course, he was speaking in a national sense, but I believe the same principle applies to a city. 
This new building which is to be constructed on the corner of Linton and Main Streets, Woolloongabba, will have a basement, a ground floor and 15 upper floors. Each of the 15 above ground floors will have a ceiling height of 15 feet 9 inches, and this will make the building at least 240 feet above the ground. From an examination of the Committee's report and of the evidence one can see that, in the construction of a building costing well over SI Om, the Department has been more fortunate than the average home buyer today because the outlay on land is well under 1 per cent of the total cost of the building, being some $75,000. As is shown in the report, the area in which this building is proposed to be erected is zoned in the Brisbane Town Plan as 'residential'. I know that those who oppose my thinking on this subject will point out to the Parliament that, on the lower side of Vulture Street, the area contains mainly light industry, shopping complexes and what was once a railway yard which has now been cleared for redevelopment. But there is no getting away from the fact that the rest of the area around the proposed building is residential. 
The Brisbane City Council - the Labor City Council - has to share the blame in this matter because the Council's Planning Advisory Committee has given the project its full blessing. The building is to have a total duty staff of about 1,115 people, with anything up to 750 people being there at the maximum. The amendment I have moved makes reference to my opposition on the grounds of the inadequate parking provision. A perusal of the report shows that parking will be provided for only 40 vehicles on the site. If we speak in terms of present values without taking inflation into consideration, by the year 2000 the Postmaster-General's Department will have spent approximately $60m on the building and equipment. The revenue from local calls and trunk line calls in the year 1990, taken on present values, will be well over $100m. Yet the Postmaster-General's Department - I say this with great reluctance - is so tightfisted that it appears unprepared to take a proper stand in endeavouring to obtain more land which would be more suitable for this building. 
I point out to the House that, to a person living in the suburb of Kenmore, suburbs like Woolloongabba or East Brisbane are hardly worth consideration. But the people who live in those suburbs and who will live there have every right of call on their environmental surroundings. In the 1970s and in the latter part of the 1960s there has been an increase in the number of people who care about and look around at what is being done to the environment in which they live. Yet we are discussing here today a preparedness by the Public Works Committee to sanction the construction of a building that will go nearly 100 yards into the sky and that will be plonked on the south side of Brisbane where there is no other building of its type. All through the evidence - I would like to call the report the 'document of doubt' - one finds that members of the Committee from all parties expressed doubts as to exactly what is being done.  Senator Webster  from another place said: 
It appears regrettable that in a residential area the Council has approved a 15-storey building. 
The whole document is filled with expressions of doubt as to what the Committee was about to sanction. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  went to great lengths to crossexamine, as did other members of the committee, on the question of parking facilities, which are the subject of part of my amendment. I suggest that if the building were to be erected in the inner areas of the city of Sydney or Brisbane or Melbourne or Perth the parking would not be a governmental responsibility. But this i building is to be erected 1 miles to li miles, Jas the crow flies, from the city of Brisbane. Here is an opportunity to do something about parking facilities because with the proposed City Council plans to construct modern units the streets of East Brisbane will be clogged up by motor vehicles owned by the people who will work in the new building. If you live on the other side of Brisbane  or  in the outer suburbs this is not a problem; but in this part of Brisbane there is an opportunity to make a contribution to the quality of the environment by ensuring that conditions will be satisfactory not only for the people who will work in this new building but also for those who have to live near this proposed new building, and it is on their behalf that I speak today. 
There are some passages of humour in the evidence presented to the Committee. One environmental conscious member of the Committee cross-examined one of the witnesses in regard to recreational facilities for the 1,100 people who will work in this building. He asked: 'Are there any parks or the like?' The departmental officer answered: 'Most certainly, yes; down the road and around the corner there is a little park'. I point out to the House that this site is located on the corner of Stanley Street and Main Street I am told that policemen on point duty opposite that little park are not allowed to spend too much  tam  there because of the danger of contamination by smog and the fumes of passing cars. Yet that is the type of answer that the Committee was given in Canberra by one of the witnesses. Obviously the Labor controlled Council in Brisbane and the Government together are to blame for what is being proposed. I fully recognise that some form of building must go up but I think it is a fair question to ask: 'How can these problems which I have outlined be eliminated?' I believe that a greater effort should be made to acquire more of the surrounding land. The Minister will probably point out to the House that already 3 blocks of land have been acquired, 2 of which have been purchased from the German Club, and that the Club is reluctant to move from this area and that a doctor who owns a big property next to the site also is reluctant to sell. 
The people of Woolloongabba and tha Griffith electorate are used to land resumptions. The resumption of property has been a feature of this area in recent years. The State Government resumed hundreds of homes to enable the construction of the new south-eastern freeway yet this Government seems to be reluctant to consider any sort of resumption in this area. This policy will mean a long term loss for the people on the south side of Brisbane. I would like to know the exact amount of money which was offered to the doctor and to the German Club for their properties, because everybody has his price. To take that a ster] further, I do not think that our cost of $75,000 for land on which to erect a building which will cost well over $10m  is  excessive. We should be prepared to offer more if we are frightened to tackle the question of resumption. 
I notice that in the evidence one person made reference to 'dear old ladies'. No doubt this is an emotional point, because the only properties under consideration are those owned by the doctor who has indicated his willingness to sell - apparently at the right price - and the German Club, which I feel quite confident if offered a very good price would get out and build nearby. The crunch is that one of the departmental officers has admitted in the evidence that if more land were available the building would be very much different to what is proposed. He even suggested that it would be lower. The only hope of unclogging the streets after 1975 is if the Methodist Church is prepared to sell some property nearby and which, in the words in the report, we are endeavouring to purchase. If that does not come to fruition by 1975 we will have a building housing over 1,000 people, but admittedly no more than 750 at the one time, located opposite a cricket ground where Test matches and Sheffield Shield cricket matches are played which in themselves contribute to a great influx of vehicles at the time the matches are played. We will have a situation in which cars will push back right throughout the area. It is all right for people who live outside this area. But if the council proposes units of good style for this area surely the people who buy them have a right to expect that the streets will not be turned into parking lots because the Commonwealth Government and the Labor Brisbane City Council sanctioned the erection of a Post Office building on the corner of Linton and Main streets in Brisbane. I sincerely hope, without wishing to stop progress because I realise that we have to get on with this building, that we will have an assurance that something will be done. That is why I have moved an amendment to the proposal. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Army. Does he recall that during early November 1972 the then Leader of the Opposition and he authorised the Australian Labor Party candidate for the seat of Herbert in Queensland to announce the major policy declaration that an ALP government would station an extra battalion of the Australian Army in Townsville and thus raise the strength of Laverack Barracks to 4 battalions? Will the Minister assure the House that the much publicised promise was not an unworthy election gimmick and that the Government will not in any circumstances renege on the undertaking? Finally, if the Prime Minister and he are men of their word will he inform the House when the transfer of Army personnel to Townsville is likely to eventuate? 
Has the Prime Minister seen a report from a respected National Times' reporter who last week visited Washington DC stating that the American  President, Dr Henry  Kissinger and the White House have now twice rejected State Department suggestions that the Prime Minister be invited officially to visit the United States of America? Does the Prime Minister now agree that his anti-American protest letter and the insulting public utterances of one-eighth of the Australian Labor Party Ministry have done our relations with the United States grave harm? Is he able to advise the House whether he has the distinction of being the only Australian Prime Minister to be declared, temporarily at least, almost non persona grata by the world's most powerful leader? Does the article agree with the advice given by the Department of Foreign Affairs? If so, what emergency measures does he propose to restore our wrecked relations with the United States? Finally, has he seen the result of the Harris poll which shows that in recent weeks the percentage of Americans willing to come to the aid of Australia has plummeted to 39 per cent? 
As the seconder of the motion I accept the amendment that has been put forward by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I suggest that the willingness of the Government to accept this Opposition proposal is an indication that it is prepared to look closely at something which we have not examined in detail before but which has been in existence in some other countries for many years. The effect of televised proceedings could be gauged by the installation of closed circuit television. The Minister for Services and Property referred to experiments in the United Kingdom and other parts of the world. But as far as I am concerned conditions in Australia are far different from those in Europe in that we are one of the few countries which allows a continuous broadcasting of Parliamentary proceedings when Parliament is in session. A study by the inter-Parliamentary Union in 1968 revealed that of a total of SO countries 29 transmit live or recorded broadcasts of daily debates and 20 transmit live or recorded television of daily debates. The study revealed also that Denmark has a full coverage on both radio and television. 
Various surveys have proven that people consider what they see for themselves on television to be more authentic and more interesting than what they might read. I believe that the Parliament, the nation's political workshop, should not be seen just by those people who can afford to travel to Canberra or those who live in the immediate vicinity of the nation's capital. Parliament should be seen also by people in the far-flung areas of this country. It should be seen by the people of Perth, Cairns, Townsville and the people of Brisbane. I know that many people never have the opportunity to see what is going on down here. All they ever have to rely on is the writings of those people who sit in judgment in the Press gallery and at times a disjointed appreciation gained over the radio. Unfortunately throughout Australia today there are still places where the broadcast of parliamentary proceedings is not available. 
I believe that the prime consideration of whether Parliamentary proceedings should be televised is whether or not parliamentary democracy will be strengthened as a result of our allowing the proceedings of this Parliament to go on television to the people. It is my view that parliamentary democracy will be strengthened and advanced by televising proceedings. The Minister for Services and Property, now at the table, mentioned that the experience in the United Kingdom was that the younger members of Parliament were in favour of televising the proceedings while the older members were not so much in favour of it. Looking around the chamber I do not see many honourable members whom I would put in the category of being old. I know that the Minister for Services and Property and you,  Mr Speaker,  have been here for a long long time, but you came in at a young age and I am quite sure that as individuals you would not for a moment be frightened of the glaring lights and the television camera. I suggest that in recent years members of the Parliament have become used to television. It is something that we do not all shy from. We are not frightened if we are asked to go on television. As long as we know the subject about which we are invited to speak we go on with considerable confidence and appearance. 
There are those who say that the better looking members of the Parliament will attract the attention of the operators of the television cameras. I do not believe that this would be so. We would not have the glamour boys, like the Minister at the table, stealing all the television time because the cameras, just as the people, would be searching for those qualities of sincerity and would not wish to highlight arrogance. The television camera would soon unmask incompetence and reveal intellectual, moral and rhetorical qualities. This in itself would have the effect of a check upon members of this Parliament, because if they knew that they were to be under scrutiny they would just not loosely prepare their speeches. They would put a lot more thought into what they intended to say. I do not think that every member will regard Parliament as a stage. I do not think this will happen, because we here already take little notice of the presence of people in the galleries. I have seen honourable members at times, particularly some supporters of the Government when they were in Opposition, enjoy a full gallery and they used to play to the gallery. But they did this in a fun kind of way and the quality of their speeches really was unaffected when they did have an audience. I believe that after a time members would become used to the fact that they might be on television. 
The argument has been advanced that a certain member might be dozing in his seat and that the television camera might focus on him in an endeavour to show him up and thus this would detract from the institution of Parliament. I believe that if we did implement the Danish system where the proceedings of Parliament were televised from the commencement till the end of the day people would understand that there is a possibility that some members might doze off at times. But I would not like to see a full televising of the proceedings. I would like to see televised excerpts of the day, the coverage of particularly important debates which both the Government and the Opposition agreed were the subject of such public interest that the public should be given the opportunity to see them. 
The honourable member for Wakefield says: 'Tariffs'. I do not think we need to introduce television for the entire nation to be aware of his interest in that subject. Heavens, I have lost my train of thought. 
If this happens it might show the people that we are simply humans and representative of the population. In seconding this proposal I congratulate the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  for being so quick off the mark in bringing this subject before the Parliament. He telephoned me in early January and said that he would like to see this proposal considered and perhaps even introduced. He said that he still had an open mind on the subject and that while there may be some disadvantages there were many advantages. He has had a continuing interest in the promotion of Parliament as an institution. It is the institution of Parliament that preserves our democratic system. Without it the freedoms which this nation enjoys would be imperilled. In this place feelings are expressed and questions are answered. It is indeed an important institution. If there is any way that we can protect it and promote it I am in favour of it. I certainly hope, since I have stated that in my view all the members of this Parliament are reasonably young, that they will follow the example of the United Kingdom where the younger members of the Parliament voted in favour of the proposition and the older members - they are certainly in the minority here - were less inclined to favour such a scheme. 
It was not my intention to rise in this debate but earlier today we heard the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  speak. I was a previous member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs at the same time as the honourable member for Robertson was a member. Having watched his involvement in the previous Committee, I was rather amazed when he said that he considered his previous term on the Foreign Affairs Committee as having been a boring experience. He referred to the fact that at various times we on the Committee had ambassadors and high commissioners along to address us and asserted that most of the information gleaned was of the type that could have been procured by reading a Denis Warner-type article. I recall very clearly - I think I have my facts right - that the honourable member for Robertson was busting his neck to ensure that we got along to the Committee the Israeli Ambassador or one of his representatives. I see an inconsistency in that he was pushing for the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to become acquainted with the Israeli aspect of foreign affairs and that he now stands up in the new Parliament and refers back to his experience on that Committee as having been boring. 
As a member who has served on the Indonesian sub-committee and the committee which investigated Australia's foreign aid, I know that of course there are areas in which we can be critical. Nothing is ever done or ever achieved that we cannot look back upon and say: 'Perhaps we could have done it a little better this way or that way with a few alterations and changes'. The foreign a:d committee was one which did open the doors. The previous government said to the Foreign Affairs Committee: 'You have been asking for an open hearing, so we will grant you an open hearing'. I clearly recall the many occasions when as a member of that committee I sat in on the committee hearings and found that interest from the public and the Press was negligible. On only one occasion do I recall the Press being present. Perhaps members on the Government side might say that that was an indication of the subject before the committee. I was one who considered the subject to be of importance. It was one which involved international relations and 
Australia's standing in the eyes of other countries, yet the rest of Australia was not really interested. We opened the doors and we did our work, which was available for all to see, and yet there was very little interest. 
The Australian Labor Party parades itself, and it has done so particularly since it came into office some 3 months ago, as being the party representing open government. One would expect that in that time there would not have been a secret kept from the people of Australia and that the Labor Party would have kept its word, because this is a matter on which it sold itself successfully prior to the last election. Let us look back very briefly, particularly in relation to this foreign affairs discussion, at Australia's recognition of Mainland China. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has refused to make public the very terms of our agreements of recognition of that country. What did we do to Taiwan? What of ourselves did we give away or sell to bring about this recognition and the establishment of 'cordial' relations? I put the word cordial' in inverted commas, but I hope that the relations will be cordial for Australia's sake, ls that an example of open government? No way in the world. The Government has closed the book on this subject to each and every one of us. 
Lel me cite another example. At the beginning of this week the newspapers wrote up a conference which was attended by the Prime Minister only last week at which he confronted the Victorian Executive of his Party and, with great oratory and as the possessor of respect and great power, convinced the delegates of the Victorian Executive of the Labor Party that the Government could not make available information in relation to American bases in this country. 
Would the honourable member please repeat his interjection? I would like to hear it. 
If ever I have seen a display of shedding crocodile tears in the 6 years I have been in this Parliament, I have just witnessed it. One only has to look at the public gallery to see how it has cleared while the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  was speaking. He asked what the Australian Labor Party in government could have done in some 123 days. I would say that it has done this already: It has created a new national record in the field of inflation. It has been estimated that the rate of inflation this year will be more than 8 per cent. The Government has embraced China, it has insulted the United States of America and it has raided the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I would like to speak in support of the amendment that the Government is making in removing the excise from home made beer. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for perhaps the smartest comment I have heard him make in  6i  years. It is wonderful what office does to some individuals. I would like to take up the point raised by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  the former Minister for Customs and 
Excise, in referring to the discrimination displayed by the new Government in removing completely, by regulation in the (first couple of weeks of its coming to power, the excise on wine. The honourable member for Hotham pointed out to the Minister that the new Government has introduced a measure that makes it easier for the businessman with an expense account to entertain and drink wine and yet continues the high tax imposed on those people who enjoy the very humble drink - I must confess that as a worker I like it too - beer. Might I say, while I am standing up for the worker, that the XXXX beer in Brisbane is probably one of the best beers one is ever likely to taste in Australia, and it is a pity that the excise on beer continues to make it more difficult for the people of the south to enjoy the superior drink. Getting back to the main point, I believe the new Government altered the regulations to remove the excise on wine at a time when they did not need altering. 
The honourable member for Riverina popped in here 3 years ago- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! He is the Minister for Immigration. 
Is he? He wears many caps, but looking at him in that wine coloured suit, it is not an unfair comparison. He could be the wine coloured suit man or the Minister for Immigration, but I will always know him as the bubbling, popping member for Riverina. The Government introduced this measure to placate the honourable member for Riverina - the Minister for Immigration. It came after I had sat in this Parliament long enough to have beard arguments from both sides of the House on the matter and after I had heard the honourable member for Angas (Mr Giles), when we were in Government, campaigning strongly against the former Government's decision to introduce the wine excise. The Liberal Government halved that excise and I did not note the advantage to the consumer. The new Government has removed the excise completely and still I do not see any advantage to the consumer. 
As the honourable member for Hotham and the honourable member for Balaclava remind me - perhaps they indulge a little more than I- prices have gone up. The Government removed the wine excise on the ground that the wine industry had been severely affected by the imposition of this tax. 
I am making a comparison between the way the wine drinker has been treated and the way the beer drinker has been treated. The situation was that the Government wrote into its policy months ago the sections relating to the removal of wine excise at a time when it appeared that perhaps the wine growers were suffering a little as a result of the imposition of the wine tax. But what happened was that the wine industry continued to expand, and those big combines which the Government so severely criticises as being monopolistic recognise the wine industry as an area of investment. Yet at a time when the big companies are investing millions in taking over small wine growers the new Government is doing nothing to stop them. The new Government in removing the wine excise is not only discriminating against the beer drinker but also is making it more profitable for those big companies and combines which wish to invest their money in the wine growing industry. I am not one to step in and trample on local investment, but what I say is that I do not believe that the welfare of every beer drinker in Australia who wants to buy a bottle should be put below that of the sectional interests of the Minister for Immigration. He was a fairly vociferous advocate in this Parliament for the abolition of the wine excise and obviously had an effect on his Party. 
I ask the new Government whether it is fair to discriminate between wine drinkers, whether they make their wine at home or purchase the manufactured product made at the winery, and beer drinkers. While I freely acknowledge the benefits of this change which is presently before the House, I ask the Government how in all conscience, as a Party which pretends to be the champion of the workers, it can go along with the continuation of a 17c a bottle excise on beer bought across the counter by the worker. Perhaps the honourable member for Hotham, the former Minister, might be able to tell me how much of the 20c charged for a glass of beer goes to this new Government to help it to finance the removal of the excise from manufactured wine. 
Is it that low? 
-It must be a pretty small glass. In conclusion, I would like to make one comment about my experience in Jamaica. When in that country I bought some Australian wine. 
Rum was available. Obviously some members of this House enjoy- 
I commence by saying that I really do not enjoy doing what I am about to do, but the manner in which the new Government is approaching matters of state leaves me with little alternative. It has come to power on the boast of open government, but honourable members, particularly on this side of the House, fully recognise- 
The honourable member for Bowman will be lucky to be here after the next election, that is for sure. The present Government has come to power under the guise of open government. People who listen to the broadcast of question time and who sit in this chamber during question time see how the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  down to No. 27 in the ministerial batting order are making a complete farce of this place and that none of us on this side of the House can get any information whatsoever. 
That is well said. I do not know whether what I will draw to the attention of the House is true or false, but I raise it simply to seek a denial or confirmation of it. It has come to my ears that in recent times a member of the Government's Public Service, which also was promised an open go - a member of the Department of Foreign Affairs - has mysteriously disappeared and that nobody knows where he has gone. I have heard allegations - and I do not claim that they are correct, but I should like some confirmation or explanation of them - that this person has been indulging in an exercise of photostating Government documents relating to Government business and various contracts between Australia and another country, and that he has been selling these documents to businessmen. 
There are further accusations that a file relating to a Yugoslav also has disappeared in recent times. There is some suggestion - it is only a suggestion - that there is some connection between the Yugoslav in question and the person to whom I have referred. I am quite prepared to make more details of the information I have available to the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am quite sure that honourable members will recognise that in raising this matter and not making more details available I am playing straight down the middle and not besmirching the character of any particular individual. 
When I raise this matter in this manner I think honourable members on this side of the House and thinking members on the Government side who may have been ambitious for ministerial rank after the last election but who failed in their endeavours will share my disquiet about what is going on in the Government ranks. I can stand on this side of the House and say that for 6 years I have been consistent in my requests for open government and for certain civil liberties and freedoms. Honourable members on the other side of the House who at one time were very vocal have in recent months become strangely quiet. 
It is my intention to make my remarks on this matter brief. I hope that if there is anything in this allegation, the responsible Minister - the Prime Minister - will advise the House. Claims have been made that the Commonwealth police are searching for this individual. If a member of our Public Service has been involved in such an action, it is the responsibility of the Government not just to try to cover it up and pretend it did not happen but to move in for the sake of the good name of the thousands upon thousands of other public servants throughout the country, to remove the cancer and to ensure that the matter, if it has happened, becomes a closed story in the very near future. 
 I shall try to follow the example of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  by being brief in speaking to the amendments before the House tonight. All thinking persons could do nothing but agree to the increase in the amount of money that is to be made available, because we all know that the cost of housing and other things has increased rapidly over recent years. Furthermore, the granting of eligibility for service homes to those persons who in the past were prepared to volunteer for overseas service but did not get a guernsey is something which also meets with my approval. This applies equally to a number of other aspects of the Bill. 
I would like to refer to the introduction of a completely new system which provides that if a person joins the Army for a period of 3 years he becomes eligible at the end of that time for what was previously known as a war service loan. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  the previous Minister for Repatriation, spoke a lot of sense earlier tonight when he referred to the history of war service loans. Personally I begrudge nobody a low interest loan, but I wonder what is behind this measure. I wonder what motivates this new Government. It parades itself as a government of generosity, a government which is out to help people; but I would suggest that in the defence forces morale has become so low that the Government considers that if it does not initiate a form of a bribe the number of members in our armed forces will, by the lime of the next election, fall so drastically from the number at the time of the last election that is will prove a complete and utter embarrassment. The Liberal Government found that in an economy in which there was full employment it was hard to attract people to the Army. The Australian Labor Party is so hellbent on destroying everything good and perhaps not so good that stood previously that it has resorted to anything. Honourable members opposite jump a little when I say that morale is low. Is it any wonder when one looks at the 'Australian' and other Australian newspapers in which this week one could have seen a photograph on the front page of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  sitting under a North Vietnamese flag? It was a disgraceful affair. He was happily seated under a North Vietnamese flag with a bunch of communists from another country. 
I was trying to explain how the new Government has resorted to measures such as this to try to fill the vacuum it has created by its attitude to various foreign affairs matters and to the Army in general. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to just one Minister whose photograph appeared in the Press. If he had gone to the parliamentary dining room tonight he would have seen a great number of his colleagues entertaining all these North Vietnamese while their counterparts back in South-East Asia are killing hundreds and hundreds of Cambodians. 
I will not refer to that matter because it is obvious that it is a very soft spot. It is the underbelly of the Government. It is good to see that there are some honourable members on the Government side who have had a sense of outright shame when they have witnessed something of this nature. It was pointed out that the cost of this measure will be well in excess of $400m. The Government is giving money away as if it were going out of fashion. It is to be hoped that this enticement, which could well have the effect of encouraging people into the Army, will allow the Government to keep its earlier promise to the people of Queensland that if it was elected on 2nd December it would station another battalion in Townsville in north Queensland. That promise has since been denied in this Parliament because the numbers in the Army are plummeting. 
Tonight we are talking about this new Defence Service Homes Bill. I wish to refer to what I regard us a fair thing and what I regard as an unfair thing and to what the people of Australia or, more importantly, the recipients of these benefits think about what this new Government is doing. Shortly after the election 1 received a phone call from a young man who said to me: 'Well, they are in now. I am a national serviceman. I am due out early in January. Will I qualify for a war service home?' 1 made certain inquiries and came back to him and said: 'According to predictions, you will.' He said: 'Well, I do not feel very proud to qualify under this system.' 1 said: 'Do not worry about it too much. At 3i per cent I would not have too many feelings like that.' 
One should look at the contribution that has been made by the men in the past. This new Government has come in and, with gay abandon, has thrown the old system to the wind and is bringing in a system which will effectively drive young Australians to join tha armed services. I feel confident that, while it may be some form of attraction to some people, if the Government thinks that young Australians today can be so easily bought it is wrong. Measures such as this will not improve our armed services. We need the method which the previous Government tried and used. It has been proved beyond doubt that, without the previous system, we can not keep our armed services up to the required and satisfactory number. 
In conclusion 1 would like to reiterate my earlier point that, having seen the 'Australian' last week and having seen the North Vietnamese, who are still plundering and murdering the Cambodians today, being feted by members of the Government, I think it is no wonder that the morale in the Australian armed forces is low. It is no wonder the Government has to expend nearly half a thousand million dollars to keep the servicemen there. 
I rise to speak on a matter which is very important to the people of my electorate in Brisbane, to the people of Queensland and, in an indirect manner, to the people of Australia. I read in today's newspaper that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is going to Brisbane tomorrow to talk to tha directors of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, a shipbuilding company situated in my electorate which is presently beset with problems. They are the same directors whom the Minister on 4th April, only a month ago, described as being up to skulduggery. That insulting and irresponsible comment from the Minister is well and truly recorded in Hansard. As honourable members are possibly aware, this company over the last 6 years has lost approximately $6m and in the last 2 years has lost 250,000 man-hours which is equivalent to 100 man-years. In the last 6 months the company has lost more than $ 1.25m. 
At the time of the debate on the closure of Australian shipyards the Minister, defending himself following my attack on him of charges of parochialism and favouritism tor his own electorate, made certain claims. I refer particularly to the vessel 'Seacoaster' which was the fifth vessel to be awarded to the shipyard in the electorate of the Minister for Transport. We know that recently Adelaide Ship Construction, a company in that city, was forced to announce its closure. We know also that Evans Deakin has more than threatened to do the same. That company is greatly concerned that it cannot carry on under the present Government. The 'Seacoaster' contract was one which Evans Deakin virtually had in the bag prior to the last election. The Australian National Line, however, took the ship off the drawing board because it wished to convert it from a twin screw to a single screw vessel. The vessel was then given by the Minister for Transport, who has discretion on where he will place vessels, to the shipyard in his electorate. For them this was the fifth vessel. Hie Minister said in the House in defence of his actions that this was done because the tenders of Evans Deakin and Adelaide Ship Construction were higher than the tender submitted by the Newcastle State Dockyard. This was only a ploy the Minister used in the House that day to try to avoid facing the facts. 
An examination of another tender by the Adelaide company recently and of the tender by the Whyalla shipbuilding company, part of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd complex, will show that the tender of the Whyalla shipyard was much greater than that of the Adelaide shipyard, yet the Minister saw fit on that occasion to give the construction of 2 vessels to the Whyalla shipyard and to deprive the lower tenderer of the contract. Yet the Minister has tried to say that the Evans Deakin yard in Brisbane missed out on the contract because its tender was higher. The fact is that the Minister has the final discretion on which company will be given the job. With Evans Deakin's future being uncertain because of the lack of orders, I suggest that if the Minister had cared about Brisbane and Queensland he would have given consideration to placing the order in that State. Further, on 4th April the Minister said that Evans Deakin would be given an opportunity to tender for the construction of two 12,500 ton roll-on roll-off ships for the Union Steam Ship Company of New Zealand. He went on to say: 
It is a decent job and will involve about $30m, and that is not chicken feed. 
But the Minister told us only half of the story because we all know that the Tariff Board report suggested that the shipbuilding industry should be offered a subsidy of between 25 per cent and 45 per cent. Yet in respect of these 2 ships the Minister for Transport, a Minister of a Labor Government which claims to champion the rights of the people, did not tell the Parliament that the maximum  subsidy  offered by the new Labor Government was only 25 per cent, the bottom of the barrel. In effect, he was saying to Evans Deakin: 'You can tender for these ships, and if you lose money that is too bad'. The Minister also referred on that occasion to the Santa-Fe oil rig and said that Evans Deakin had had an opportunity to build this rig if it wished to do so. What he did not tell the House at that time was that the Santa-Fe Drilling Company had indicated that in all probability the vessel would be taken out of Australia after a time. All the Minister would say was that as long as the vessel was kept in Australia for a reasonable time the company would be eligible for a subsidy on the building of the rig. If you,  Mr Speaker,  said to the Parliament that we could speak on this subject for a reasonable time no one would understand what you were talking about. Neither did Evans Deakin nor the Santa-Fe Drilling Co. know what the Minister was talking about.  To my  knowledge the Minister still has not clarified what he means by 'reasonable time'. Meanwhile all he does is indulge in accusing the directors of Evans Deakin of skulduggery. 
In recent days we have heard the hollow cry of the socialists in Queensland who have said that the Government should step in and nationalise and socialise the Brisbane shipbuilding industry - Evans Deakin. If such a capable board of directors as that which Evans Deakin has is incapable of making the shipbuilding industry work and if Evans Deakin, functioning properly, cannot avoid a $6m loss in 6 years, I ask in all sincerity how a nationalised and socialised industry would expect to get this industry on a sound footing. What Evans Deakin needs is a clear enunciation of the Government's future policy. That is necessary not only for Evans Deakin but for every shipbuilding yard. What a sorry record it is of the Government. It has been in power for 6 months. The Adelaide Ship Building Co. has gone to the wall and Evans Deakin is going to the wall. The Minister has mentioned his pipe dream for the industry. It suggests that he is ambitious to cut down the number of shipbuilding establishments throughout Australia. I suggest that the Labor Party is happy to see the Adelaide Ship Building Co. go to the wall and will be happy to see Evans Deakin go to the wall. The Government will probably tell us that it is rationalising the industry, making it smaller and easier to cope with. The Adelaide people can speak for  themselves. As  a Brisbanite and Queenslander I resent the application of the 
Government's policy. I resent the new Labor Government's attitude to Queensland and to Brisbane. 
The Minister for Transport is also Minister for Civil Aviation. In today's Press is an announcement that his submission to Cabinet for expenditure of $150m on a new Brisbane airport has been thrown to the wind. 
You prattle on like a parrot. I would not even put a canoe building yard in your hands. The new Government has a lot to answer for. Last night it allocated $450m for a new war service homes system, yet it regards the building of a new Brisbane airport as expendable. It is starting to worry about inflation and the expense of carrying out some of its promises. All 1 ask of Government supporters, including the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  is that they be fair dinkum. They should stop making political speeches which are devoid of any meat or truth simply to protect their Government. I ask them to take an interest in the people of Queensland. As far as I am concerned, that is what counts. Anyone can sit in the Parliament and yell, interject and scream out, but if Government supporters do not come up with solutions in their speeches the people of Queensland will not be impressed. Let us face it, they have not been impressed to date. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  One would imagine fairly that when this Party on the other side of the House that has come to government after wandering in the wilderness for 23 years- 
I am overwhelmed by the generosity of both yourself and the Minister,  Sir. 
The list of speakers contained another three or four supporters of the Government who have yet to speak. I do not think I was incorrect in assuming that one of those honourable members would be next to speak. But, nevertheless 
The Chair knows best, too; I recognise that. We have heard this evening and during the latter part of the afternoon a most interesting debate to which members from both sides of the House contributed. I sincerely hope that the import of this debate is not lost on the Australian community because whether we like it or not vast changes will be made if this Bill becomes law. 
The Opposition side of the House does not oppose the Bill simply on light grounds; it opposes it for very strong and traditional reasons. I was rather amused to listen earlier this evening to some honourable members on the Government side of the House condemn out of hand previous Ministers now on this side of the House and heap tons of praise upon the present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is wandering around the chamber at the moment. I would appreciate it if he took his seat and listened to some of the things 1 am about to tell him. The only thing that the Minister has done since assuming office has been to introduce this Bill. The many things used by the Minister to grandstand and to promote his image as a goer and doer not only were suggested by Liberal governments but also had been put into practice by them. The Minister, with his light purple coloured suit and his dark hair- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! 

I was describing him. 
Taking all things into consideration and discounting the Minister's appearance, one must look back on recent events and the Minister's claims to have done so much. The Minister has attempted to portray himself as a man of initiative. 1 should like to refer to 5 initiatives which he claims but which are not even his. Firstly, there was a policy statement on the selection of migrants which the Minister made on 31st January 1973. In that statement he outlined 5 broad basic requirements which each prospective migrant would need to meet. Because of the limitations of time and the fear of being sat down, I do not propose to repeat those requirements now. However, it must be pointed out that some of them are continuing requirements which were first laid down as long ago as 1947. Would you mind coming back,  Mr Minister? 
1 am. 
Not one of the requirements mentioned by the Minister is substantially different from the requirements insisted on by the previous Government. But by a misuse of the public relations technique, the Minister has made it appear that they are something new and different. They are not. 
Secondly, there was a news release issued by the Minister on 14th February detailing what he described as 'new initiatives on population policies'. In the news release he referred to population studies 'being carried out at the Australian National University under the direction of Professor W. D. Borrie'. The fact is, as this House would be well aware, that the studies by Professor Borrie, and other investigations to provide the facts necessary to determine future patterns of migration, were announced on 26th June 1970 by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  the then Minister for Immigration. One could almost describe the Minister as a con man for claiming suggestions which were not really his. 
The third example was also a Press release. It was issued by the Minister on 18th February under the heading 'Nation's First Emergency Interpreter Service'. I say no more about this matter, which again the Minister sought to present as a new initiative, than that it was conceived by the former Government and announced in the House of Representatives on 31st August 1972. How do you explain that? Just shake your head as though you were in an incubator. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member will please address his remarks through the Chair. He has been warned repeatedly during his speech. He will not be warned again. 
The Minister then spoke of an on-call telephone interpreter service to provide a 24-hour service for urgent community needs. Two days later he was at it again. On 20th February he issued yet another Press release in which he sought free publicity for his opening of a new migrant education centre in Perth. In the third paragraph of that release he described the project as 'a further new initiative'. It was not. I can see you looking aghast,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that a Minister of the Government and a member of your Party should claim to have initiated ideas that were not his. I'do not blame you. This proposal was announced on 31st August 1972 by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes). 
I appreciate your assistance and guidance,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have cited 4 examples, having indicated earlier a willingness to mention five. I think that anybody who studies Hansard will appreciate that I have been stopped after mentioning 4 examples. Some of the changes proposed in the BDI give us reason for concern. As was stated earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, this Bill is an example of the new Government directing Australia towards becoming a republic, but it is doing so through the back door. Those historical ties which we once had count for nought with the new Government, and there cannot be less than nought. This is the situation today. The new Government has introduced certain changes which are to the disadvantage of our traditional migrants, that is, the British. Whether Government supporters agree with it or not, Australia has been built largely on British stock. When we look back on recent years, we see that between 1967 and 1968 more than 46 per cent of the 137,000 migrants who came to Australia were from the United Kingdom, in 1968-69 the figure was 44 per cent, in 1969-70 it was 39 per cent, in 1970-71 the figure was 36 per cent and in 1971-72 more than 40 per cent of Australia's migrants were from the United Kingdom. This has been our traditional base. Yet reports from London indicate that in recent months, since the new Government has come to power, there has been a decline in the number of people indicating an interest in migrating to Australia from the United Kingdom. 
I have many good friends living in Asian and South East Asian areas where the new Australian Government is attempting to place great emphasis. In my own electorate there are approximately 5,000 people who are of Greek origin or who are Greek by birth. There are approximately 2,000 people of Russian origin or of Russian birth in my constituency. So I have some reason to be able to claim to understand the viewpoint of our recent settlers. The new Minister for Immigration was elected to this House in 1969 and set about convincing the Italian Embassy, the Maltese High Commission and anyone in the migrant community whose ear he could blow into that he was a great worker. He was quickly rewarded by the Italian Government with an order of Italian solidarity, and recently he received an award from the Maltese Government. The Minister is very proud of those awards. Right? 
I realise that these communities require additional assistance - more so than the British or the normal United Kingdom settler - because they have come from a different background. The Minister for Immigration should admit that the British migrant is different from the Italian, the Greek and the Yugoslav. I see the Minister's eyes light up when I mention Yugoslavia. He thinks of Croats and all that. The Minister has a sorry record in that direction. He has stated that great differences exist, yet this Bill sets out to destroy any advantage that a United Kingdom migrant may have had in the past. 
Frankly, as an Australian, I resent a British migrant being able to come to this country and, after residing here for only 6 months, having the right to vote on the affairs of this nation, just as I believe as an Australian that I should not have the right to vote in a United Kingdom election after living for only 6 months in that country. I hope that the new Government will see fit to change that provision. The point is - the Minister has lost sight of this - that the previous Government was not practising discrimination against nonUnited Kingdom migrants because it applied a different time factor for qualifying for naturalisation to the non-British migrant. The previous Government was recognising that the United Kingdom migrant, who had come from a country with a Westminster system of Parliament and practices a way of life this country has followed, was more easily able to assimilate to the Australian way of fife than were many non-British migrants who, after 3 years in this country, perhaps could not even speak the English language. 
The Minister for Immigration with his purple suit and dark hair is jumping around like a day-old cockerel, drawing everyone's attention to the time. In view of the request made by my Whip to keep my speech short, I conclude by saying that the Opposition is opposed to this Bill. Many of the good reasons we have for opposing the Bill have been stated by other speakers. Instead of sitting there smirking and smiling the Minister should set about considering some of these issues, because I am sure that if he had been given a British Government award he would not have half the pride in it as he has- 
You are not one? I said that the Minister looked like a day-old cockerel. I conclude simply by saying that the Minister has proved himself to be one who has paraded around making claims of giant steps forward which in fact were steps initiated and introduced by the previous Government. The only thing to which the Minister can lay claim is the Bill which is now before the House. Frankly, if it were my Bill, I would not be proud of it because it is a retrograde step for this country. The Minister and all of the members of his Party should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves for trying to drive this country into becoming a republic and for pulling the wool over the eyes of each and every Australian. 
I direct a  question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports about the Minister for Overseas Trade taking certain initiatives which are causing concern within the Department of Foreign Affairs. The suggestion is that the Minister for Overseas Trade is directing foreign policy a little too fast along certain courses. I also refer to the fact that this year we have not had a foreign affairs debate in the Australian Parliament. With the Government fast approaching 200 days in office, I was wondering whether the Prime Minister would assure the House that before we rise for the winter recess he will provide an opportunity for himself to make a statement and for a full debate to take place in the House on that subject? 
I take the opportunity while the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is at the table to heap praise upon him for his recent announcement that he intends altering the regulations in the Australian Capital Territory to allow contraceptives other than oral contraceptives to be available through various retail outlets rather than, as under the old concept, just the pharmacist. I suppose people are wondering what the Australian Parliament is coming to when 2 speeches in a row from this side of the House refer to the subject of sex. Last week only 34 hours were given to the Parliament to discuss legislation relating to abortion. Members have given great consideration to the question and have come to conclusions, but they have not really had an opportunity to present them to the Parliament. I suggest that the Minister should consider introducing legislation which would compel the manufacturers of the various forms and brands of contraceptives to print on the outside wrappers and the packet the failure rate of the various products as was outlined early in March by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  when he brought before the House various facts and figures which had been discovered by the Canberra Consumer Affairs Association. 
We live in a day and age in which the more knowledge the population possesses about these things the better. Furthermore, I believe that every member of every parliament in Australia, whether it be State or Federal, has an obligation to set about tearing down those barriers which have existed in the past and which have prevented ready access to such things as contraceptives. I say this at a time when every member of this Parliament has had to think very deeply about this social question. It is all very well for those who are completely against abortion on demand - and I count myself in that group - to parade round with a holier than thou attitude, but it is proper for those people to recognise that in the 1970s we are, rightly or wrongly, living in a far more permissive society than that in which previous generations lived. 
It is interesting to note that in the United States of America it has been established that 46.1 per cent of girls are sexually active before 20 years of age. Such a survey has never been taken in this country, but there is every reason to believe that the Australian figure would be comparable. At this moment the Aquarius pop festival is taking place at Nimbin in northern New South Wales. It is being sponsored by the Federal Government through the ministry to the arts. Last weekend the current affairs program Four Corners' showed a lass at the festival probably 18 or 19 years of age, bared down to the waist. The next segment of the program dealt with various women's magazines with a heavy emphasis on sex and even with fold-out colour photographs, like femine ones in 'Playboy', of male models. The stage has been reached where there is a great awareness of the functions of the body among the very young. I believe that any religious group, parliament or body in our community will keep its head buried in the sand if it says the only way to stop the proliferation of sex is to stop magazines with a strong emphasis on sex. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! It being 15 minutes to 1 o'clock, in accordance with standing order 106 I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
It has been a bit of a struggle for me to obtain the opportunity of speaking in this debate this afternoon. The subject we are discussing is most interesting and I believe the legislation before us is an indication of the new Government's long term policies. I must draw the attention of the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation to the fact that his quotation of what was said by  Sir Peter  Abeles was only a journalist's interpretation of  Sir Peter's  comments. To indulge in a little bit of genuine quotation, I quote  Sir Peter  Abeles: 
I haven't seen the legislation but they should be in the Bill. 

 Sir Peter went on and said that he accepted the Minister's intention in good faith. I would think that any member of this Parliament and particularly a Minister who intends to quote someone as a source should refer to a person who at least is aware of what he is referring to and does not come out publicly and say. 
I haven't seen the legislation. 
I believe that the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  is a necessary one. We have heard honourable members on the other side of the House protest strongly that this legislation will not lead to what Opposition members suggest it possibly could lead to. I will accept in good faith, as  Sir Peter  Abeles, the Minister's intention. But I ask the Minister to reflect the type of government of which he is a Minister - a party dedicated to socialism. I would like to quote from the Twenty-ninth Conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Launceston in 1971 to show that this is not a figment of my imagination. Section V of the platform of the Australian Labor Party which relates to economic planning states: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, Labor will establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation,  particularly in  the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of anti-social private monopoly. 
The honourable member for Bowman said that this is the best part of my speech. He parades himself in this House as a middle of the roader, yet he is nothing but a warped tool of the trades hall. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  I ask the honourable member for Griffith to come back to the clause under discussion. 
Very well. That will teach him to come into it. The Bill as it stands - and I know that we are discussing a proposed sub-section at the moment - is such as to allow the present Government, or if there happens to be a disaster and that Government continues after the next election, to introduce changes to implement the Labor Party's policy. 
The Minister has admitted that the Bill has been 'written in broad terms'. I repeat it. We heard a fine contribution this afternoon by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who went through this Bill clause by clause and showed the House the inconsistencies in the Bill and the areas where the Bill can be manipulated. The Opposition spokesman said, and rightly so - and I note that this amendment is just suggesting certain changes - that certain changes were mooted by the previous Government. The facts are that we did not moot the changes which the Government is attempting to foist on to the Australian people right now. I believe that the erection and creation of hotels by airline companies is a necessary project in certain cases. For instance, if someone is going to northern Queensland and has to fly through Brisbane, the last flight into Brisbane may be so late that that person cannot catch another plane until the next day because of the curfew. People in these circumstances have to be accommodated somewhere. The previous Government proposed to introduce these measures to enable Trans-Australia Airlines, as Ansett Transport Industries had done in the past, effectively to accommodate these people by taking them from the company's terminal at the airport to, for instance the city terminal and just sending them upstairs to spend the night. They could come straight down in the morning and enter the transport to return to the airport. That is fair enough and I have absolutely no opposition to this. But I oppose the concept or the possibilities of the Government introducing legislation which will enable TAA to be used and manipulated in the future to allow it to implement some of the socialist objectives to which I referred earlier. 
There is no doubt that the Australian Labor Party, the Government, is dedicated to socialist objectives. To all those people who are now writing to members of the Parliament pleading that they are free enterprise people who do not support this Bill and would like to see it opposed, I take this opportunity to remind them that the Australian Labor Party's Federal platform has been available for a long time. If they did not see fit to make a close study of what the Party would do when it achieved power, it is a little late to start crying and whinging now. In concluding, I ask the Minister to consider carefully the amendments proposed. There is a whole string of them. Lord knows how many this Bill needs, but there is a whole string of proposed amendments. I ask the Minister to consider them carefully because the Opposition is trying to put in precise terms the objectives that the Minister for Transport claims that the Government is trying to implement by the passage of this Bill. 
If the Minister is really sincere he will not allow his Party in the future to twist and change this Bill and use it to achieve objectives which his Party basically believes in. If he wants to join our side for the next vote - I am not suggesting he should gag the debate - and bring some of the honourable members on his side with him to defeat their viewpoint I believe he will be doing the nation's long established free enterprise system a good service. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  amazed me earlier. I quote from a sentence he used. He said: 'Do not kid ourselves this is a nation built on capitalism.' Being the honourable member for Diamond Valley and coming from Victoria, recalling the election results of only last Saturday I think if I were a member of the Australian Labor Party I would suddenly be waking up to what the Australian people want. Honourable members on the Government side have tried to portray us as being a Party which is interested only in Ansett. This is not true. We are interested in a fair go for both airlines. This is not our legislation. It has been changed. If the Government is sincere it still has the opportunity to introduce changes to make this Bill tight so that it defines the purposes of the Act and is not a loose Bill which can be manipulated to meet the socialist objectives to which I have referred. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement attributed to the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, that he had shown a willingness to vilify and prejudge senior public servants. 
If he has seen the statement, (a) can he say what is the complaint of the Council which led to the statement and (b) has he made any reply in response to the statement. 
If he has made a reply, what was it. 
I did not realise that it was intended passing all stages of the Bill now because the daily program states clearly that the debate on the Marriage Bill is to be adjourned. Perhaps it was adjourned momentarily. 
No, I am not in trouble at all. In his second reading speech the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  said that similar legislation is unnecessary in Scotland because minors over the age of 16 years there have never needed parental consent to marry. Being of Scottish stock, I suppose that I should not be speaking to this particular Bill but I do so because I am not altogether convinced that the Government or the Opposition is doing the entirely correct thing. In his second reading speech the Minister said that in England in 1969 a similar Bill was introduced to reduce to 18 years the age at which parental consent to marry must be obtained. He said that if this was good enough for England it was good enough for us. They have bull fighting in Mexico and Spain and yet I should like to see the Minister for the Capital Territory try to introduce bull fighting in this country. An outcry would follow. It is not sufficient to say that because something is done in another country it should be done in Australia. 
I have never been one to oppose the right to vote at 18 years of age. Newspaper reports in my home State of Queensland would record the fact that years ago when some members of my own Party were fearful of reducing the voting age I was advocating it. But the question of permission to marry at 18 years of age is an entirely different thing. Even though I may be one of the younger members of the Parliament and unmarried that does not mean that I am incompetent to speak on such a subject. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who spoke on behalf of the Opposition instanced cases where young people over the age of 18 and under the age of 21 had gone to a magistrate to receive permission to marry and had married, but he did not say whether they had lived happily ever after. I wonder whether the Minister, the Government and fellow members of my Party have bothered to look at particular cases - I do not know whether figures are available or any surveys have been made - to see what happened when young people married whose parents did not actually stop them from marrying at an early age but said that they would prefer them to wait until they were 21 years of age. 
If the Minister for Services and Property had been listening he would have heard me admit to that. I am not ashamed of it; I am quite proud of it. The Minister has often said to me in the past: "I wish I was still single like you'. The point I am making is that while I will agree to let this Bill pass - because it is simply a game of numbers and when one puts 124 members of this House against one member the one member has no chance at all - I decry the fact that parents will lose all control of their children. Perhaps this is a good thing; perhaps it is a bad thing. I am quite sure that a lot of parents outside this House would agree with my point of view that whilst someone may be mature enough to vote at 18 years of age the state of matrimony is such an important institution - an instiution which is supposed to hold together from its beginning until death - that I wonder whether we are making a mistake in passing this Bill. Perhaps only time will tell, and in 20 years time people may point to the speech I have made today and say that as there has been no increase in the number of broken families and no increase in the number of divorces in our society I was well and truly out of touch. If that is the case, I will be very happy to have been wrong. However I hope that we are not just getting on the band wagon of being fashionable and saying that because people can draw up a will at 18 years of age or can vote at the age of 18 they are capable of doing everything at 18 years of age. Consistency is most desirable, but consistency is not always possible. I simply issue this warning to all those who might in the future marry at 18 years of age. I wish them all the best of luck and hope that there will be no increase in the number of broken families which unfortunately exist in our society today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  I too, as a Queenslander, object most strongly to the direction which the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the new Labor Government are endeavouring to foist upon the States and the people of Australia in the Housing Agreement Bill which is presently before the Committee. This Bill can be seen in contrast with the history of the Federal Government's State counterpart when it was in office in Queensland. Since 1945 the Queensland Housing Commission has built 43,466 homes, of which 25,373 or 58.4 per cent have been for purchase, leaving 18,093 or 41 . 6 per cent for rental. 
This new Commonwealth Government seems to set itself up here in Canberra believing that it knows all and it knows best. It parades itself as a provider of all, but when it provides it does so in a way which suggests that, if the States do not toe the line and agree to do things the way the Commonwealth wants them done, the Commonwealth will not give the States the money. I would not be so unkind as to suggest that the Labor Government indulges in blackmail in its dealings with the States. That would be unparliamentary;I am fully aware of that. But, unfortunately, I have heard outside some people suggesting- 
 In referring to the comments of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  I should like to say that from my point of view there is absolutely no difference between the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. The Australian Senate was set up for the sole purpose of enabling a federation of the States to take place. I believe that unless the Australian States through the Parliament were to decide to give the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory the status of a new State, in exactly the same way as the United States of America has admitted new States in latter years, everything that has been said to advocate senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory or for the Northern Territory is totally and completely invalid. In 7 years in this place I have seen a degree of expediency. Tonight could almost mark the highlight of the expediency which we have all become used to seeing. The Senate has 60 members. The proposal to increase the number of senators is simply a result of the decision by the Australian people made in about 1967 not to break the nexus. The people at that stage said, rightly or wrongly: We do not wish to- 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General I refer to a 'Four Corners' program of 19 May on which he was a guest. On that program, referring to the tapping of telephone conversations, he said: 'Yes. Every now and then a court case in the States occurs that involves the admissibility of evidence produced to that court by State policemen. Obviously it has been obtained by interception of a telephone call and the Commonwealth is well aware of it.' The honourable gentleman was asked whether he would prosecute a policeman in those circumstances and he replied: 'No, but it is a little bit unsettling, I think, to think that the Australian Government could sort of turn around and sort of say, "We will charge this policeman".' In view of the remarks made in the Senate yesterday by the Attorney-General, does the Minister as his representative in this chamber agree that there is a degree of conflict between his attitude and that of the Attorney-General? Will the Minister assure the House that he will not oppose what the Attorney-General is doing? Furthermore, will he do everything in his power to stop blatant breaches of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act through tapping activities and enforce the law applicable to the illegal practice of tape recording of telephone conversations irrespective of whether it is done by priest, politician, policeman or any other person in our society? 
I wish to oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  just as I oppose clause  6  of the Bill. The words that I uttered in this House last night and the words that have been spoken by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and other members on this side of the House are such as to suggest that it does not matter what term the Government proposes for a Northern Territory senator or an Australian Capital Territory senator. We believe that the entire concept is wrong. The reason why these strange terms are being introduced is simply to accommodate the Government's intention to increase the size of Senate so that in accord with the Constitution it can increase the number of seats in the House of Representatives. 
I set out last night my view that rightly or wrongly in a referendum in late  1967  or early  1968  the Australian people had rejected our proposal that we should break the nexus. All that this Bill proposes to do is to get around the difficulty in another way so that gently and surely the Government can increase the number of representatives in this House. I do not believe that our founding fathers - and no doubt some of the people who originally went to the early Constitution conferences were members of the Labor Party - would have believed that a Labor Government today, after wandering in the wilderness for  2  decades, would within its first  6  months of office try to upset the entire concept of federalism. The Senate is a States House. The Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not States and therefore, like other honourable members of this Parliament, I can have nothing but contempt for the Bill and for this clause. 
 In the last few days the subject of telephone tapping has made the headlines. Since I first arrived in this place in 1967 I have, pursued this subject relentlessly in an endeavour to have the practice stamped out. After making calculations I have noticed that between 1968 and last year I spoke 18 times to this Parliament, either in the form of questions or in a specific speech, expressing my opposition to bugging. The Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Four Corners' on 26 May 1973 contained an element relating to this question. I refer to what appeared to me to be a number of inconsistencies in claims by various individuals. In Queensland the interviewers received an assurance from the Attorney-General's office. This is what was said: 
Since the implementation of the Invasion of Privacy Act in July 1972, there have been no applications from State Police to tap phones. 
The interviewer went on to state: 
That last October the State Attorney-General had, in fact, directed the Police Commissioner that the Stale Police were not to conduct phone taps, that there was a possibility of Federal legislation being contravened. 
That order probably was an indirect result of my campaign over the period I mentioned. I am very pleased to learn that the State Attorney-General has been taking some notice. On the same program, the General Secretary of the Union for Postal Clerks and Telegraphists,  Mr John  Baker, stated: 
Well, there is quite a large variety of equipment that we know of. For example, there is a category of telephones which was supposed to have been made exclusive for use to - sectors of the Postal Technicians within the telephone exchanges. 
I am quoting from a transcript of that program but it is a little difficult to read what has been typed.  Mr Baker  continued: 
We have reason to believe that these telephones are now held by people outside of the postal system altogether. Such a telephone allows the holder to dial across the conversation of anybody within the STD system. . . 

 Mr Baker suggested that if a person acquired one of these instruments it would be possible to dial in on any telephone conversation simply by dialling the number of one of the persons party to that conversation. 
Last night on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'PM' an interview was conducted with  Mr John  Ryan who claims to be a private investigator from Brisbane. He is not well known to me but I know of him and he is often described as being a somewhat dubious character. But all that aside, it was seen fit to use him on the program as a source of information. I am most concerned because last night he claimed that he knew of at least 20 or 30 instances of telephone tapping in Queensland in the last few months. He went on to say:  . . and 1 know of quite a lot in Sydney and Melbourne and Canberra. 
One wonders what to believe when one considers the information that comes from the Commonwealth Government and the various State governments, and also from the denials and claims by individuals. I think a claim was made a week before by some chap in New South Wales, also on the 'Four Corners' program, that he believed that one of his telephone conversations had been tapped. 
Whether it be taping, tapping or bugging, as far as I am concerned it is much the same. It is an invasion of privacy. As I have said before in this place, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  unfortunately was the only person who ever gave me hope that one day something might be done. My own Party brought pressure to bear on the various State governments, but in my opinion it could have done a lot more to stamp out the blatant breaches of the various Acts introduced for the purpose of protecting the people of Australia. I hope that the new Government will give serious consideration to setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate the incidence of telephone tapping in Australia or, in other words, the intrusion into the privacy of individuals. There has been much conflict. We do not know for certain whether this tapping or taping is going on on a large scale. There is only one way to find out. The Parliament should not just rely on the various current affairs programs to glean snippets of information, what somebody here is claiming or what somebody there is claiming. I believe that we have a duty, if we are sincere in our efforts to protect the rights of the individual, to to something such as setting up a committee. 
Alternatively, the Commonwealth Government should get cracking and enforce the Commonwealth Acts which presently exist. It is often forgotten by the people of this country that, just as it is illegal to tap a telephone conversation, it is illegal to tape a telephone conversation. That means simply that if you are having a conversation with somebody you cannot relay that telephone conversation on to a tape recording machine without the knowledge of the other party to that conversation. It is an internal blot on the record of this nation that some years ago the Commonwealth Government stood by and allowed the then Mayor of the city of Cairns in North Queensland to be convicted simply on the evidence of a recorded telephone conversation. From what I heard, the machine had well and truly seen better days. It was an ancient tape recording machine. But the Commonwealth Government stood by and allowed the Queensland Government to prosecute and finally convict the mayor of Cairns. He later died. I can assure the House- 
Possibly he died from natural causes. I was not there for that part of it. 
I do not feel too well today. The Minister is very perceptive. The point I am making is that we owe it to the people of Australia to do everything possible to enforce the presently existing laws, because they are strong enough. I believe also that it would be in the interests of the nation if we were to set up an inquiry to see whether these people who claim to be aware of tapping or who claim to have had their telephone conversations intercepted are speaking the truth. As far as I am concerned, enforcement of the law from now on is not good enough. I would like to know what has gone on in the past. If records of conversations have been made, everything should be done to erase and destroy those illegal recordings. 
 The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has done much the same as I intend to do during this cognate debate, and that is to direct my attention to one aspect of one of the 3 Bills. Nevertheless I wish to make some reference to the main Bill, if we can describe any of them as the main Bill, which refers to excess distribution and loss companies. While members of the Opposition stand as one in their condemnation of those persons who exploit every conceivable means to avoid paying tax, I believe that the Parliamentary Counsel, the Government departments and the Parliament itself have a responsibility to ensure that when legislation is first introduced it is of such a standard that the holes which we have come to expect do not materialise. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech uttered the words in this age of enthusiastic and ingenious tax avoidance'. If those days are upon us it behoves all those responsible for legislation to make the legislation so tight that people do not move out of the confines of the law, take advantage of the errors of this place and in the drafting of legislation, set themselves up in business and then suddenly become victims of the heavy hand moving in just over 9 months after the commencement of a financial year. 
My colleagues and friends, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  made certain comments this morning and there is little point in repeating the views they expressed, especially with this session of the Parliament drawing to a close. However I would like to take up some of the views that the honourable member for Blaxland has put here today. He is a young man and one would have thought there would have been hope for him, but unfortunately he suffers from the same syndrome as a great percentage of the members on the Government side of the chamber: Anything that they see as representing success or anything that has a shadow of free enterprise could be evil and must be stopped. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is also with us today, is one who  -  I say this kindly because he cannot help the way he thinks - looks at the development of our mineral and oil resources as something which would have happened anyhow and believes, seeing that it has happened, that we should move in and grab the resources. He does not see that thousands upon thousands of Australians have risked and lost millions upon millions of dollars in outlaying the finance which has allowed the oilfields and the mineral fields in Australia to be found. It is a fact of life that the great majority of the finds in this nation have been by small prospectors. 
I noticed one aspect of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) and the Treasurer's speech on it, where reference was made to the withdrawal of the income tax benefits for visiting experts. In his speech the Minister said: 
For ali of these reasons it was decided to withdraw these income tax concessions, and introduce in their place a system of direct grants to Australian enterprises employing visiting experts. 
That is fair enough. The wording of the Treasurer's speech indicates that he realises that Australia cannot shut the door on experts. But what the Government is proposing in this Bill has no alternative. In relation to money invested within the provisions of clause 77c and clause 77d, the Government is slamming the door against hundreds of thousands of ordinary Australians who are risking some amount of capital on oil and mineral exploration. It is dismantling the rig of proven progress. It offers nothing in its place but a socialist dream of an island Texas of 3 million square miles with the Minister for Minerals and Energy on the Treasurer's payroll digging an occasional hole with the hoe of hope. That is about the extent of what will happen in Australia unless the Govern ment sets itself to finding an alternative proposal to encourage the private companies and individuals to go out and seek oil and the mineral wealth of Australia. 
We know that the Australian Labor Party is based largely on Sydney and Melbourne and that without those 2 cities it would not be in Government today. If some members of the Labor Party get the opportunity to go beyond their freeways and highways, out to the prospecting camps where the geologists and the oil and mining exploration companies work, they will learn that one just does not walk along with a divining rod which suddenly points down to indicate oil or some mineral lode. It is not like that at all. The only reason we have been so successful in Australia in recent years is that we had a system whereby we encouraged individual Australians - every Australian - to play a part in financing the development of this country. 
For the benefit of honourable members who think that these are just my words and that my view is not shared by others, I draw attention to an article in today's 'Australian'. The article, which may not be accurate, reports the  President  of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges,  Mr M.  S. McAlister as saying: 
If the tax concessions were being abused why not eliminate the abuse, rather than a system which has helped mobilise millions of dollars of countless private investors in Australia, so helping to create a more progressive market. 
I wish that the Treasurer was here at the moment so that he could answer that question. Perhaps the Minister for Minerals and Energy might answer it. Why is the Government completely destroying what existed in the past without, at this stage, offering a viable alternative? I have been told, although I cannot vouch for the truth of this, that in recent weeks the stage has been reached where of 50 drilling rigs in Australia, 48 have been stilled and only 2 are presently being used. There has been such a loss of confidence by that sector of our society that many are giving it away. Perhaps the Minister for Minerals and Energy thinks gleefully that this is good and that the Government can now buy up those 48 rigs at a good price. That is perhaps the stance that he might adopt and the action that he might take. Realising the restrictions being placed on us in relation to time, I ask the Government to try to see beyond the syndrome which leads Government supporters to believe that anything that stands for capital is bad. The Government should try to recognise that we on this side of the House are prepared to join with it in eliminating bad practices, but there is no point in completely dismantling the proven formula. 
In conclusion, I hope that if searching for these resources in Australia is to slow down or grind to a halt, the Government will soon devise a scheme whereby search might be encouraged again. We on this side of the House recognise that there has been some abuse of this system in the past and that the abuse must be eliminated. But let us not destroy the entire system, because it is one which has proved itself. It would have continued to prove successful if the rough edges had been removed and people throughout the nation had continued to receive enticement honestly to contribute money to finance the search for oil and minerals. The only endeavour that has been made is to remove what are considered by the Labor Party to be the evil aspects of the present system. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (2.43)- The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made reference to members of the Australian Labor Party belonging only to the cities. 
You are the exception. 
These experts often are looked upon as tipoffs for a foreign company and their visits cause disruption in mining staffs. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has already informed us that 90 per cent of the visiting experts are brought to this country by foreign owned enterprises. I know that there are many sincere people among them who have settled in Australia but in the majority of cases they are treated with suspicion. It is no longer necessary to bring these so-called experts into Australia because we have an ample supply of Australian mining engineers. In any case this Bill contains provisions to make a special concession available to Australian mining companies should it be necessary to bring these persons into Australia. 
The fact that the Government has made an examination of the weaknesses in taxation law which allow financial manipulators to cash in on Government attempts to assist in the exploration and development of our mineral resources speaks well for the future. The fact that the Government is taking action to ensure that the assistance which is given to mining companies will be used for the real development of our mineral resources is very encouraging. The Government is aware of many large untapped mineral resources in which Government assistance could yield a rich and long term harvest. Some of these deposits are near rural towns. They could be the means of sustaining these towns while rural industries are recovering from the recent crisis. I would like to put forward some suggestions on how the development of these resources could be assisted but I have been asked not to take too much time in this debate so I will pass on. 
The Government has already shown that it does not intend to forget mining centres which are already employing many thousands of people and which contribute millions of dollars yearly to the State and national welfare in royalties and taxes. One place which I have in mind is, of course, Broken Hill. The militant history of that town is well known. It is often distorted and publicised. As matter of fact the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  have done that very thing in this House. What is less well known is the heavy nature of the work of hard rock mining. In this field the effective life of a miner is said to expire at 62 years of age. These miners have to retire at 62 years of age. Some of them get part time jobs and others retire under a pension scheme the benefits of which are little better than unemployment benefits to which they contributed. Also little known are the other problems that hamper the operations of the mining industry. The contributions that the mining industry has made to the development of this country is surprising. Taking Broken Hill alone, the 4 companies in the year 1969 produced 2.7 million ounces of silver and concentrates containing two-thirds of the nation's zinc and two-thirds of the nation's lead production. One mine - New Broken Hill Consolidated - for the year ended 1968, before royalties and tax earned $11,675,000. The same mine in the year 1969, before royalties and tax, earned $15,570,000, or an increase of 33 per cent on the 1968 earnings. But after royalties and tax the increase on the previous year amounted to only $480,000, or 7.6 per cent. Tax provision amounted to $5,048,000 which was $1,688,000, or 50 per cent, more than was set aside in the previous year, 1968. 
Royalties increased to an amount of $4,752,000, or an increase of 61 per cent on the previous year. This means that additional earnings of nearly $4m was reduced to $480,000 because of added tax and royalties. 
I am not mentioning these things because 1 feel sorry for the companies because as a rule what they take out of one pocket they have a habit of putting back in the other pocket. But I am wise enough to know that sometimes the interests of the employees and of the companies coincide. Companies cannot be expected to give their ore away. The rate of company tax could mean that companies might curtail employment and of course if they did so the employees would suffer. I think that we should be aware that there are 2 major factors that determine the life of any mining field. One is the current price of metal on the world market and the other is the grade of the ore that is being mined. High grade ore at Broken Hill is reaching the end of its life but there is a large body of low grade ore. We believe that the Government should be conscious of the contribution that Broken Hill has made to the welfare of Australia and that some assistance should be given towards the exploration for and the mining of this body of low grade ore. I am aware that the responsible Minister is already conscious of this and is looking for ways to assist in the development of this large body of low grade ore at Broken Hill. 
I congratulate the Government on the action it has taken under this legislation and particularly for the grants under the isolated children's education scheme. Recently I attended the annual conference of the Isolated Children's Parents Association at Bourke. One of the problems raised at that conference was whether recipients under that scheme would be taxed on the grants they receive. It is very nice to know so soon after that conference that the Government has come out and made a clear statement on the way in which the taxation will apply. I believe it is unfortunate that more time was not allocated to me in this debate. However, the Government should be congratulated for this amending legislation. The matters that I have had to leave out of my speech will be taken to the Treasurer and other Ministers in the hope that further development will be undertaken in the Broken Hill area. 
asked the Prime  Minister,  upon notice: 
What is the area of ministerial responsibility of (a) the Minister for the Media and (b) the Minister for Health with respect to the laws and regulations governing advertising within Australia. 
Has an inter-departmental committee been appointed to investigate the laws and regulations governing advertising within Australia. 
If so, which departments are represented on the inter-departmental committee. 
-This is the first occasion in 7 years that I have risen to speak on a condolence motion. It is something none of us treats lightly. Unlike the previous 3 speakers, I was not here in the days when A. A. Calwell was Minister for Immigration. I arrived at the time of his twilight on the national stage. I believe that I speak for a generation which was particularly harsh on the right honourable member in its judgment of him. As a person who in the last few years had an opportunity to get to know him quite well personally I express thanks for being given the opportunity to know the man well and to recognise that he had one quality perhaps above all other qualities- the quality of tremendous integrity. Despite differences which may have existed politically, no one will ever take from him his honesty or his integrity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
My question was to have been directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation but he is not present. 
It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has left the chamber and not stayed to hear some criticism of his comments. One would almost think that we had elements of the Irish Republic Army in the Australian Labor Party. As a Protestant, I do not apologise for being a member of the Liberal Party. When I look around I see many people of many faiths and views represented in both the Country and Liberal Parties. 
The Labor Party has brought down its first Budget in more than 2 decades. Without spending very much time on this question, because many speakers prior to me have done so and many after me will do so too, I would like to draw to the attention of Labor members present that they may as well take the smiles from their faces because gallup polls taken immediately after the Budget showed what the public thought of what the Government had done. Its engineering feat was an electorate failure. It all boils down to this: In this day and age, with inflation continuing at the rate it is, the value of the pension is less than it has ever been. We are just about leading the world when it comes to inflation. The Labor Party is destroying the homes savings grants scheme which was introduced to encourage young people to buy their own homes. We have seen a cut in defence expenditure and the brazen demolition of the nation's defences. 
We have had nothing but increases in taxation, albeit indirectly, to cover some of the grandiose schemes which the honourable member for Blaxland outlined. There is no getting away from the fact that the previous Government in recent years lowered the taxation rate. Honourable members opposite know that by allowing inflation to continue the average income is increasing and therefore the average contribution in taxation is increasing. It is through taxation that the Government is financing its schemes. Let no Australian be fooled. The people of Australia are financing everything any government, whether it be Labor or Liberal, does. If honourable members opposite are really concerned they might look at the taxation contribution of a person earning $3,000, which is now in excess of $600, a large contribution for people they describe as being well and truly within the bounds of the poverty survey. We have had enough of their carping and talk about what they have done for the people of Australia. They have done very little. Most people are saying: 'It is their first Budget. Let us see what they do next time'. But the Parramatta by-election will probably tell the story. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself has already conceded victory in that seat. That is his own personal assessment of how this new Government is going. 
On a quieter subject, I would like to canvas the implications of the social doctrines which are being brought into this House per medium of legislation. We see more than ever before the States on the run from a Commonwealth Government that is determined, through the financial system, to impose upon the States the Commonwealth Government's every whim by dictating to them how money will be spent. In answer to questions we have heard Ministers on a number of times state that if a particular State is not prepared to accept the terms laid down by the Federal Government for money it was making available the money could quite easily be given to some other State. We have reached the stage where the States have been told: 'Either you spend it our way or you do not get the money'. When the Constitution was originally drawn up and the 6 States agreed to become the Commonwealth it was hoped that the Constitution was so devised as to prevent this ever happening. Next week we have the historic Constitutional Convention, a much awaited event. I sincerely hope that the delegates from the various States and the Commonwealth go to that Convention with an open mind. Might I state here and now that in my view the Convention on the Constitution should not be a time for the States to go along to take or the Commonwealth to go along to take; it is a time when all governments must carefully consider giving and taking to ensure a better run Australia which in the long term will make a better way of life for each and every citizen of this country. 
I wish to refer specifically to section 72 of the Constitution which relates to the judiciary. I realise that by speaking about the judiciary I am about to step upon hallowed ground. I hope that I will not be misunderstood or, more significantly, that my views will not fall upon ears entranced by the enchantment of quaint tradition which despises questioning and criticism, no matter how well motivated or deserved. I want to refer to 2 aspects in particular. The first is our system of appointing judges to the High Court of Australia. I want to refer to the historical background of section 72 of our Constitution which states: 
The Justices of the High Court and of the other courts created by the Parliament - (i.) shall be appointed by the Governor-General in Council: (ii.) Shall not be removed except by the GovernorGeneral in Council, on an address from both Houses of the Parliament in the same session, praying for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity: (iri.) Shall receive such remuneration as the Parliament may fix; but the remuneration shall not be diminished during their continuance in office. 
Originally, in the United Kingdom, judges held their commissions during the King's pleasure. The Stuart kings chose their judges with a view to their support of the Crown. It was not until the Act of Settlement in 1702 that judges were given statutory security of tenure in office. The independence of the bench was guaranteed in that Act. The second enactment which operated to secure the dignity and independence of the bench was in 1760, Act 1, George III C.23, which provided further that judges' commissions should continue notwithstanding the death of any particular monarch, and their salaries were secured to them during the continuance of their commissions. 
These constitutional provisions were the basis of the tenure of the judiciary in the Australian colonies before Federation; that is, judges held office during good behaviour and could be removed by the Crown for misbehaviour without an address from Parliament, subject to appeal to the Privy Council. Furthermore, they could be removed from office by the Crown on an address from both Houses of Parliament for reasons other than misbehaviour. Therefore section 72 (ii.) of our Constitution departed from this historical position in Great Britain and the former Australian colonies. A justice of the High Court could be removed from office only if there was an address from both Houses of Parliament in the same session praying for his removal, and the grounds for his removal were limited to proved misbehaviour' or incapacity. Therefore the tenure of a High Court justice is not dependent on the Crown in any case including misbehaviour except when the Crown acts on an address from both Houses of the Parliament; and furthermore it is not open to the Parliament to present an address for the removal of a justice on any other grounds than for proved misbehaviour or incapacity, and that is under section 72 (ii.) of the Constitution. 
I am making particular reference to the life appoinment of judges. It should be noted that, in the context of life tenure operating to guarantee integrity in justices, State Supreme Court justices all hold tenure for a term of years. Justices of the Supreme Court of each State except Victoria are all compulsorily retired at 70 years of age. In Victoria they are retired at 72 years of age. I should like to look at the present composition of the High Court of Australia. We have a number of young justices.  Mr Justice  Mason is 48 and  Mr Justice  Stephen is aged 50. But the position does not stop there. Continuing up the ladder we find a most respected gentleman,  Mr Justice  McTiernan, who was born on 16 February 1892. At that time the nation's population was much the same as the present population of Sydney. I cast no reflections on this elderly gentleman's ability to make decisions, but I point to the fact that he is an elderly man. 
In 1950 two very elderly distinguished gentlemen retired from the High Court. They were the Right Honourable  Sir George  Edward Rich, K.C.M.G., and the  Hon. Sir Hayden  Erskine Starke, K.C.M.G. The first gentleman was appointed at the age of 50 years and retired at the age of 87 years, and the second gentleman was appointed at 49 years of age and retired at 79 years of age. As I have said, those 2 gentlemen retired in 1950, and honourable members opposite do not need to be reminded of the fact that this was just after the Liberals returned to power. One of those gentlemen had been appointed in 1913 and the other a few years later - my arithmetic is not quick enough to enable me to calculate that date at this moment. 
The honourable member for Hunter interjects. I respectfully suggest that there is a possibility that our judicial system is being used for political purposes. Judges are reluctant to retire until such time as the party of their political persuasion - if they have a political persuasion - is in power because they know that the person who is appointed to replace a retiring judge could be a person who is favoured by the government. I am not the only person who holds this view. On 1 June 1955 the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  read into Hansard a section of a paper which he had delivered at a seminar of the Australian Institute of Political Science. It is reported at page 1296 of Hansard of that date. It reads: 

 Mr Bland believes that the High Court provides some safeguards for our liberties; I doubt it. The Court is less representative of the Australian people than are their elected parliamentary representatives. Judges are irresponsible in that they hold office for life, which is sometimes a very long life. 
That was an understatement. It continues: 
Some have used that asset for a political purpose. 
I think someone asked me who said that. It was the present Prime Minister. The paper continues: 
I recall 2 flagrant examples where resignations were withheld until there was a change of government Early in 1950 one judge retired in the last month of his 80th year and another retired on his 87th birthday. 
I consider that life appointments are a wrong concept, and this view has the endorsement of the Prime Minister. In most States judges retire at 70 years of age; in Victoria they retire at 72 years of age. I ask the Prime Minister to put this question to the Australian people at a referendum. It is something that must be decided by. a referendum. This question was before the High Court in, I think, 1918 in a case between the Waterside Workers Federation and Fitzpatrick. I have no doubt that 75 years should be the maximum age for a High Court judge to continue on the bench. 
The reasons for life appointments have changed drastically. Judges now receive pensions and their widows receive pensions. While they are in office they are the highest paid servants in the nation. We in Australia inherited our judicial system from England.' However, in Australia, through no fault of our judges, they are asked to make political judgments in the constitutional sense and in industrial matters, and at times they are asked to act as royal commissioners. I do not believe that we can rightly attribute to any of our judges, except the Chief Justice, any godly gift of acumen in relation to political interpretations. Even the Prime Minister stated in 1955 that the system of appointments was open to manipulation. Therefore it is not unreasonable for the State Premiers to be apprehensive about the abolition of the States' right to appeal to the Privy Council. 
As a Queenslander I am sick and tired of listening to Labor members from Queensland so frequently denigrating the Queensland Premier. I do not stand behind him on every issue, but when it comes to the rights of the people I believe that he has a particular gift in recognising what is going on in this country today. In my mind there is reason to be concerned about the composition of the High Court, We have no greater authority on this than the Prime Minister. I refer to page 1296 of Hansard of 1 June 1955, where the Prime Minister is reported as saying: 
If counsel has to advise if a certain action is constitutional, he is less concerned with the Constitution than with the composition of the Court. 
He goes along wondering which judges will be on the bench. It does not matter about the case he is going to present; he is wondering about how the judges think. Surely, if a man who is now a Prime Minister says this, we all have reason to worry about what goes on. I do not claim that we are able to point to any decision in a case in Australia where there has been blatant intrusion of political thought; but decisions have been reversed. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in the United States of America there is an inbuilt safeguard in that the  President  nominates the Supreme Court judges and the States' House - the Senate - must confirm the appointments in a majority vote. This not only guards against the possibility of someone who thinks as the  President  does being appointed but also gives the States a say in their firmly established federal system. 
I am not saying that any of our judges are corrupt, but each and every person has a philosophical approach to life and one philosophical approach will suit a particular government and not others. It is ridiculous to think that a judge's decision is always right. This aspect frequently is highlighted when a group of judges sits and there is a minority viewpoint. There have been cases in which the minority viewpoint of a particular judge has later been proved correct. I cite the example that in 1937  Mr Justice  Evatt, who later became Leader of the Opposition, delivered the sole dissenting judgment in the case of Cowell v. Rosehill Racecourse Co. Ltd and 10 years later the House of Lords, in the case of the Wintergarden Theatre v. Millennium Productions Ltd, adopted the Evatt rule of law. Yet our Prime Minister now states that the Australian High Court has all the wisdom. 
Like politicians and other people, judges are not infallible. Their way of thinking can play a part in their decision-making processes. The Full Court decided in 1918, in the case I mentioned earlier, that a judge appointed under the Constitution has a life tenure. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  for a change. It is for the reasons I have mentioned that I take up the cudgels on behalf of the States. In conclusion, as there is a Constitutional Convention next week, I suggest that delegates from the State and Commonwealth Parliaments give consideration to the system which is used to appoint judges to our High Court. Consideration should be given to ways and means whereby the States can have some say in the appointment of a judge to our High Court. Perhaps it could be by a majority vote among the States. If four out of the six States agree to an appointment that could be enough. At a time when we are seeking to abandon the right of the people and the States to appeal to the Privy Council I do not agree that we should accept our present High Court system. It has been denounced in the past by no other authority than our present Prime Minister, when he was very much younger and perhaps a little quieter, but no doubt with his experience even then as a barrister and as an associate to various judges he had knowledge and was fully equipped to speak on this particular subject. Again I sincerely thank the Leader of the House for allowing me an extension of time. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a speech made by me on 30 August in this place in which I addressed myself to the question of the High Court and section 72 of the Constitution? Does the Prime Minister recall his criticism in 1955 of the High Court and his statement that he regarded the resignations in 1950 of  Mr Justice  Rich and  Mr Justice  Stark 'as flagrant examples of where resignations were withheld until there was a change of government'? Does he consider that there is another example of this at the moment? Will the Prime Minister consider holding a referendum in order to bring about a retiring age for High Court judges and further consider a minimum age before appointment? Does he recall his statement in 1955 that 'counsel is less concerned with the Constitution than with the composition of the court'? Finally, does he agree that such a comment gives every thinking Australian cause for concern and may be the explanation why many Australians are concerned that the right of appeal to the Privy Council is to be abolished? 
I wish to address myself to the Brisbane airport. I have done the right thing in advising the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  that I would be speaking on a subject that could be of interest to him. I wish to speak not so much about the Brisbane airport as about what the Government is not doing about the Brisbane airport. My interest in this subject extends back to the late 1960s when I entered this Parliament, appeared before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and presented to it in Brisbane a case on behalf of the residents of my electorate. I underlined the noise being made by the increasing number of large aeroplanes. The people of Brisbane were, to say the least, disappointed with the Coombs report, the document titled 'Review of Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government'. We regret that the Brisbane airport was ever included in the survey conducted by the learned  Dr Coombs  and his committee. The report suggests that the work required on the Brisbane airport could be deferred for an indefinite period or a specific period. The Coombs report recites some facts which indicate the good faith of the previous Government in respect of building a new Brisbane airport. The report states that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government was spending $lm between 1973 and 1974; $13m between 1974 and 1975; and $18m between 1975 and 1976. That indicates that things were on the move. 
In the short time available to me I wish to refer to various Press releases, the first of which dated October 1969 states: 'A ray of hope for Queensland'. The report appeared in the Financial Review' of 24 October 1969 when  Mr Swartz,  then Minister for Civil Aviation, announced that there would be a rebuilding of Brisbane's international airport. On 23 January 1969  Sir Donald  Anderson, that great DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation, sprang a surprise. A Press article states: 
The Director-General of Civil Aviation,  Sir Donald  Anderson, sprang a surprise on Tuesday when he told a Melbourne Rotary Club lunch that the star part in his next 5-year airport development program would be played by Brisbane. 
Five years have almost passed and the new Government has not announced that anything is to be done. On 15 May 1969 the present Minister for Civil Aviation said: 
Brisbane airport is another facility that requires to be moved. It is obvious that there is a noise problem it Brisbane. 
That is an understatement of the facts. 
In 1971 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government set up a Commonwealth-State advisory committee with the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council in order to review the master plans for Brisbane airport. On 16 December 1971 announcements were made relating to the inquiry and the need to consider ecological problems. It was said that it was imperative to move the noise nuisance to the south west of the airport without causing unacceptable noise levels in other closely settled areas. In Brisbane the height of buildings has had to be restricted because Brisbane is on the direct approach path for many aircraft arriving there. The placement of the Brisbane airport is restricting the size of buildings in that city, thus adding to building costs. The number of floors and the number of tenants that can be accommodated in relation to the initial outlay on land are restricted. 
It is rather amusing to look back to 1971 when the present minister for sugar - the Minister for Northern Development or northern sugar - was very critical of the previous Government. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The present Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  made known to this House that he had learned that the Commonwealth was spending in Queensland only one per cent of the money spent on air terminals throughout the nation. He said that it was a shabby deal and that Queensland was being savagely discriminated against. Looking back now that one per cent seems generous. It is a pity that the Minister for Civil Aviation has squibbed the opportunity. Perhaps I should not say 'squibbed'. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  It is a pity that he has avoided the opportunity to debate this issue. He avoided debating the new Sydney airport only yesterday and he has again avoided an opportunity tonight to reply to the irrefutable arguments that I am putting forward in relation to Brisbane's getting a shabby deal. The time available to an honourable member in an adjournment debate is very short but I want to point out that the new Government foresaw what would happen. The Minister for Civil Aviation is a very clever man. He is difficult to pin down or to bring into this House to make a statement. He camouflaged the Government's decision to shelve the Brisbane airport project by making an announcement through his Department that there would be need for a further inquiry. I refer the Minister to the Senate Hansard of 23 May which contains an answer given by his representative, the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh),  to  Senator Lawrie. Senator Cavanagh  said of the previous study: 
The Brisbane airport studies have advanced to the point where preliminary cost estimates are available for government consideration together with a quite comprehensive environmental impact statement. 
As a member from the State of Queensland that this Government considers expendable I object most strongly to the manner in which the people of that State, and particularly of Brisbane, are being treated. The suburbs of Norman Park, Balmoral, Bulimba and others in my electorate are suffering increasingly from the noise made by aircraft. The new honour able member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  gained his seat by 35 votes at the last election. 
The honourable member will not have to worry about airport noise next time because he will be back in his old suburb of Sandgate. The honourable member for Lilley has said hardly a word about the aircraft noise problem. There are suggestions that there is more concern about shifting the airport because certain traditional Labor areas might have to be moved. As the honourable member for Lilley had a majority of only 35 votes, it could be the kiss of death for him, or more importantly, for Labor in the electorate of Lilley. I repeat that we do not like the shabby treatment that is being meted out to the city of Brisbane. If the Minister for Civil Aviation cares at all about Queensland it is high time that he set about reversing the Labor Government or Cabinet decision to give Brisbane a very low priority in what it considers its great program. 
I warn the Minister that just as I was tenacious when my own Party was in power in my endeavours to ensure that a new airport for Brisbane was built, so will I persist now and it will be so much easier for me to continue a campaign against the new Labor Government, not just on the airport issue but on many matters of policy which adversely affect the standard of living of the people not only of the electorate of Griffith or of Queensland, but of the whole of Australia. I hope he takes heed of this warning and that next week when Cabinet meets he says to those present: 'This is absolutely stupid. We must reverse this decision because the people of Queensland deserve better.' This will be the test of the man and if he does not do this I suppose he will never do anything. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Yes. I know,  Sir, that  you have heard everything the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  said. I have taken a great interest in the aircraft noise problem. The hope of the people in my electorate and in the electorate of Lilley was a return to office of the Liberal-Country 
Party Government because the Labor Government has shelved and postponed the building of Brisbane Airport. Because of that the people in the area will continue to suffer. Although last night I advised the Minister for Civil Aviation that I would be speaking in the adjournment debate neither he nor any Minister of the Labor Government was present to listen when I outlined the problems of Brisbane. If that is an indication of the interest of the new Government in the people of Brisbane we can look forward to the return of the Federal seat of Lilley to the Liberal Party following the next election. 
In speaking against or to, whichever way one might interpret it, the motion moved by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  who is at the table, I wish to protest-- 
Very well. I will rearrange my thought processes. I take advantage of this opportunity to protest at this debate being gagged just before 12.45 p.m. today. This may be all right for honourable members opposite who are interjecting, but I have my views and I wanted to speak this morning. This matter is one which, every time it is raised - we can be sure it will come up again in the Parliament in the months ahead - we seem to dispose of it as quickly as we can by lifting up the big thick carpets around here and brushing it under them. We appear to be frightened to discuss the subject for too long. We seem to fear the electoral reaction. Furthermore, to me this morning's debate was the height of sadness in many respects because we heard emotional speeches which got completely away from the issue and were more appropriate to the debate earlier this year when abortion was under discussion. Certain methods have been employed on this occasion to get away from the real nitty-gritty of the question. I believe that 13 September 1973 is indeed a sad day in the history of this Parliament and many of the honourable members who now sit in it. 
I will make this brief. We were told earlier that this was to be a free conscience debate and vote, and on the 2 votes which have taken place honourable members on this side of the chamber have been seen to support various sides. It is with great reluctance that I draw to your attention,  Mr Chairman,  and more is the pity that it must be drawn to your attention- 
We are talking about treason. I hope that on this occasion, on such an important issue as the safeguarding of one's country, some members on the Government side will break the precedent that was set earlier and see fit to join honourable members on this side of the chamber. A free vote is meaningless if it pertains to only one side of the chamber and I have not yet seen a display of a truly free vote on the Government side. I have not seen free votes from the Country Party corner on issues earlier today either. 
I believe that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  outlined the importance of this subject. I hope that all honourable members will exercise the free vote which they supposedly have been given. If there are members lurking in the corridors in order to avoid voting against the wishes of their Party, I hope that on this very important occasion they will see fit to vote on the side of right. 
Having listened to the speech of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  one would think that all was good out in the electorate, but the honourable member in quoting his figures conveniently omitted to refer to inflation, which is a method by which the able bodied rob the aged or the robbing hoods of the new Government take from both the rich and the poor to finance their dreams of 2 decades. Following the previous speech, it is appropriate for me to turn my attention to the speech delivered in this House last Tuesday by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The Minister is a fellow Queenslander and as such is like all Quenslanders - under attack by this new Government. I hate to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Minister has used the lie method. I realise that you do not appreciate that particular description,  Mr Speaker,  so perhaps I should say that he has used the method of twisting figures to present a false picture of the achievement of his Government. 
If one refers to page 754 of Hansard of 11 September 1973 one will see that the Minister presented a table headed 'Comparison of Rates of Increase - Pension Rates, Average Weekly Earnings and Prices 1958 to 1973'. This table was such an expert statistical feat that it caused our shadow Minister for Social Security,  Mr Chipp,  to exclaim half way through the Minister's explanation of the table, 'What is the source for that table?' Being suspicious of most things coming from the new Government I went to work and saw that the Minister for Social Security had the complete and utter audacity to include the pension increase which the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government gave in last year's Budget. He did this in an endeavour to boost his figures. This was shameful. 
The honourable member also has noticed this and is somewhat worried. He is trying to get the answer out ahead of me. Granted, the Minister did talk about quarters from June 1972 to June 1973, but this was in another area of suspicion because it suited the present Government to refer to the last half of last year in an endeavour to cloak or camouflage the inflation which has taken place in this part of this year. It tried to pull the figures back to make its figures look more respectable. 
One has only to go into the electorate and ask pensioners and others relying on fixed incomes - people on superannuation and other pensions - what they think of inflation, and of the measly and miserly increases which have been given, to appease their feelings. The honourable member for Diamond Valley - how he has turned those diamonds to potatoes since he became a member - quoted the increases that the previous Government had given to the people of Australia. I refer back to the last 3 years. I do not like quoting figures, because most Government supporters do not understand them and become lost because they are beyond their comprehension. The Minister's comparison of rates of increase shows average weekly earnings and various consumer price index increases in percentage and actual figures. I do not like to go too far back in history, but in April 1971 the previous Government increased the pension to $16,' which was an increase of 3.2 per cent and in October that year the pension was increased by another $1.25. This was a total increase in 1971 of some 11 per cent. However, figures for that year indicate that the consumer price index increased by 5.4 per cent. Therefore, relative to the buying power of people on fixed incomes, pensioners were better off. On 4 May 1972 there was an increase of $1 and later that year a further increase of $1.75. This represented a total increase last year of 16 per cent for pensioners, yet the consumer price index increased by 6.2 per cent. Again the lot of the Australian pensioner or the person reliant on a fixed income was improved tremendously. 
Then the distortion started. The Minister conveniently referred back to June 1972 and tried to present a picture that would suggest to the casual reader of this table that Labor had done so much since it came to power, that immediately after the election there was an increase of some 17.8 per cent for the single pensioner, and that after the present Budget increase it would be 26 per cent. I am sorry that the Minister for Social Security is not in the House. I can understand why he left earlier tonight after a member of his own Party spoke, because he was aware that some one from this side had not fallen for the 3-card trick. If we relate the increase of S3 since the last election back to the S20 at which the pension stood prior to the unfortunate and tragic defeat of the previous Government, we will see that the increase has been only 15 per cent. If we relate this to the rate at which inflation is presently increasing and recall that all pensioners cannot wait until next autumn, we will see that pensioners will be well behind. In Labor's policy speech at the last election the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
All pensions will be immediately raised by $1.50 and thereafter each spring and every autumn the basic pension rate will be raised by $1.50 until it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. It will never be allowed to fall below that level. 
Heavens above, they were fine words at the time, but I wonder how many pensioners today are off butter and back on to margarine and off meat and on to bread as a result of falling for the promises of this new Labor Government. The facts of life are that if we take inflation figures which presently apply, it will be about 1990 before this 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings is actually reached. I have with me a table, because I do not like to be accused ever of exaggerating, in which I have taken the average weekly earnings of males to increase by 7 per cent per annum. I have applied the present increase by this Government of $3 a year, and even at a 7 per cent inflation rate it will take until 1981 for the pensioner to reach 25 per cent of the rate which was promised by the new Government. Have honourable members ever seen a carrot so far ahead of the donkey? Have they ever seen one held so far ahead? 
Let me warn honourable members opposite that unless this new Government does more to help those persons on fixed incomes it will not just lose the next election but honourable members opposite will be lucky if any of them remain. It is all right for them to sit on their fat ministerial salaries and disregard the plight of the people who have to rely on $23 a week. Let me assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and honourable members opposite that the going is getting tougher every week for those people who are relying on the Government's handouts. The Labor Party parades itself as a generous Party. It parades figures which are definitely distorted. I say: 'Shame.' If it were my own Party concocting tables which did not represent the true picture I would also say 'Shame', because we would just be fooling each other. We are attempting to better the life of the person who is fully reliant upon the policy of the Government to keep going strongly and who wants to enjoy the fruits of his labours on retirement. 
In my view I have already forcibly underlined the problems facing people on incomes which are reliant upon the generosity of the Government. I said earlier that I do not believe that the figures which the Minister used, showing the increase in the consumer price index, fully show the position today. I notice that the new Government has not increased the supplementary allowance for those persons who are living in rented accommodation. At this time, when inflation is on the move, those persons who rent accommodation are worse off than ever. I do not blame all the landlords, even though there are some who are unfair in their application of increased rentals. But in many cases, along with the increase in the value of property, there is an increase in costs for maintaining the property. The other day my washing machine broke down and it cost me $23 to have a man from Malleys Ltd in Brisbane come and fix it. It took him 1 hour and 40 minutes. Guess whose mother has a Whirlpool, but guess who pays to keep it going? That is exactly what happened to me. For any pensioner to keep a washing machine going it must be a sorry and difficult task. 
I was relating this to increased rentals. It is not unreasonable in this day of rising prices for an owner of a property or a block of flats which may have been worth $20,000 a year ago and which may be worth $30,000 today to set his rental return on the current value of the property. That is a fair return. 
Prices are going up because of the current inflation. Honourable members opposite refuse to recognise that their policies are contributing to this inflation. No wonder the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  the other night called the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  three blind mice', because they cannot see what they are doing. Unfortunately we have 60 blind mice opposite, and some people feel that they are even bigger than mice but have similar tails and same number of legs. 
In conclusion I refer again to the fact that the Minister for Social Security has connived in presenting a false picture of the position to this Parliament. People on fixed incomes are definitely worse off than they were. If honourable members opposite were simply to admit that people are really no better off, I would think a lot of them. But if they continue to try to present a distorted picture of an improved lot, they are harming themselves because those persons who receive their weekly cheques and have to stretch their money know better than that. They realise that their lot is being eroded. 1 am quite confident that if the Government does not do something constructive about inflation it will be out at the next election, and the people who already recognise that they were given a fair go under LiberalCountry Party governments will decide to return those Parties to government. 

 Mr MCKENZIE (Diamond Valley)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I wish to address myself to the Brisbane airport. I have done the right thing in advising the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  that I would be speaking on a subject that could be of interest to him I wish to speak not so much about the Brisbane airport as about what the Government is not doing about the Brisbane airport. My interest in this subject extends back to the late 1960s when I entered this Parliament, appeared before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and presented to it in Brisbane a case on behalf of the residents of my electorate. I underlined the noise being made by the increasing number of large aeroplanes. The people of Brisbane, were, to say the least, disappointed with the Coombs report, the document titled Review of Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government'. We regret that the Brisbane airport was ever included in the survey conducted by the learned  Dr Coombs  and his committee. The report suggests that the work required on the Brisbane airport could be deferred for an indefinite period or a specific period. The Coombs report recites some facts which indicate the good faith of the previous Government in respect of building a new Brisbane airport. 

 Mr Speaker, there is little point in my continuing thus, because this very speech is recorded at page 923 of yesterday's Hansard for 12 September. The reason I started off in this manner this evening was that when I presented a plea on behalf of the citizens of Brisbane last evening history was created in this Parliament in that at that time not one Minister was in this chamber to listen to what was being said. Earlier in the night I advised the Minister for Civil Aviation that I was to speak on a subject of interest to him. Earlier this year - in April or May - the Minister for Civil Aviation admonished me for supposedly making no attempt to advise him that I was to speak on a subject relating to his portfolio. With great indignation he spoke after I spoke and, to say the least, chastised me. 
The only thing I wish to retract from what I said last night is my remark that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  had done nothing. He told me this evening that he had done something, that he had worried the' Minister. Obviously his so called worrying of the Minister has had no effect. I regard the Minister's absence from this place again this evening as a display of gross discourtesy to the people of Brisbane. As I pointed out yesterday, the Minister seems to be running helter skelter from the possibility of debating publicly or in this Parliament his portfolio as it relates to civil aviation. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs, a fellow Queenslander, interjects to say that he is frightened. That is a most appropriate inter.jection. If what the honourable member for Lilley has told me is correct, that the Government is doing something about the Brisbane airport and that the Coomb's report is not correct, I want to know whether the Minister for Civil Aviation has the courage to come into this place and make an announcement. We in the Opposition are sick and tired of Ministers resorting to Press conferences and statements outside this Parliament which preclude us -  Her  Majesty's Opposition, the Prime Minister's Opposition or the President's Opposition - from having a chance to criticise. 
Again on behalf of the people of Brisbane I challenge the Minister for Civil Aviation to come into this House and make a statement on what is proposed for the Brisbane airport. I repeat my comments last night when I referred to the Coomb's report which clearly outltined that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had intentions - admitted by the Coomb's report - of continuing, moving along the road or speeding up the building of the Brisbane airport. My remarks are on page 923 of yesterday's Hansard. I said that the Labor Party's report stated that the Liberal-Country Party Government would be spending $lm between 1973 and 1974, SI 3m between 1974 and 1975, and SI 8m between 1975 and 1976. Everyone in Brisbane believes that this project has been shelved. If it has not been shelved, why is the Minister running away from an opportunity to come into this chamber and tell us what is going on? 
The Brisbane suburbs of Hamilton, Ascot, Meeandah, Eagle Farm, Whinstanes, Hendra, Norman Park in my electorate, Bulimba in my electorate and Balmoral in my electorate are continually shaken by planes flying overhead at low level. I pointed out in this chamber last night that the city of Brisbane is being held back because of the restrictions that must be placed on the height of buildings as the approach from Moreton Bay is unsuitable as a landing direction for these big aeroplanes on a windy day. The present Minister stated in the past, when he was in Opposition, that it was high time something was done about Brisbane. 
He had it arranged. Even the honourable member for 
Boothby who is from South Australia noticed. He remembers the Minister's speeches in this House and the promises which have been made to the people of Queensland. But the facts of life are that unless something happens soon the people of Queensland will recall the short period when  Mr Jones  was Minister for Civil Aviation as one during which things in Brisbane ground to a halt and nothing happened. I speak most sincerely when I state my belief that this is just not good enough. We were promised, after years of planning by the previous Government, that a new airport for Brisbane would soon be under way. The previous Government actually came forward with a plan, and the new Government came in and scrapped it. This is not good enough for the schools that are affected and for the people who live under the flight path. One has only to be in those homes to realise the terrible noise that these aeroplanes create as they pass overhead. 

 Mr Speaker, I know that you are not familiar with Brisbane but I want to tell you that my office is on the 12th floor of the new Australian Government building in Brisbane and the planes coming from Sydney seem to come straight at my office from the far distance, suddenly turn to the right and land at the Brisbane airport. In recent weeks there has been a great increase in the number of planes coming in from the Ascot-Hamilton area for landing. Therefore life for those people who live in that area is even more unbearable. I believe that it is a gross discourtesy on the part of the Minister for Civil Aviation that on 2 occasions in a row he has refused to come into the Parliament. So much for open government. It is just a myth which was sold prior to the last election. Now that the Labor Party is in power it is shutting the books and not telling anybody anything. The only consolation is that the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  are in the House tonight. I hope that these 2 gentlemen will recognise that we in Brisbane are fair dinkum about this. We will no longer be sold a pup. I hope that they will go to their Cabinet meeting next week - even to Caucus because obviously that is where things happen these days - and have the courage to raise this matter and to say: Cameron is upset. It's time you did something'. 

 Mr ENDERBY (Australian Capital Territory - Minister for the Capital Territory and 
Minister for the Northern Territory) (10.33) - I thank the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for the implied aspects of his remarks. May I put this thought to him in reply: We on this side of the House do believe in open government. We do our very best to practise it. I imagine that in the 9 or 10 months that the Labor Party has been in government we have released more - 

 1- Mr Speaker- 

I have risen on 3 occasions to speak---- 
Thank you  Mr Speaker.  I speak tonight on behalf of the Brisbane suburbs of Hendra, Ascot, Hamilton, Doomben, Eagle Farm, Bulimba, Balmoral, Hawthorne, Norman Park, Merthyr, New Farm, Teneriffe and Newstead. I would like to point out that this is the third occasion in a row on which I have tried to seek out the presence of that ignorant Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones).  One moment ago that man was in the House. But he has left this House as an indication of his contempt for the people of those suburbs in the city of Brisbane. I find this sad because on 2 occasions last week I advised the Minister's office that I was to speak on this subject and tonight in this Parliament during those many divisions we had I advised him again. But the Minister has seen fit to walk out not in contempt of me but in contempt of the citizens of Brisbane. What a discourteous ignorant man he is, and a contemptible man at that. 
I withdraw my statement that he is contemptible. 
I do. I withdraw it. But it is understandable that I should be upset after informing the Minister on so many occasions that I intended to speak on this matter tonight. The recent decrease in the use of Moreton Bay in Brisbane by big jets as a landing approach towards Brisbane has meant that 13 unlucky Brisbane suburbs and at least 50,000 citizens are taking the full blast and brunt of screaming jet engines. It is unfortunate that at this time the Minister, who is southern-based in the city, town or whatever he wishes to call it-- 
I would like to hear from someone on the other side of the House. 
He is ignorant, ignorant, ignorant, if you like to know. The blatantly political postponement of the resiting- 
I will say it again in case the honourable member for Bowman who does not care- 
The blatantly political postponing of the re-siting of the Brisbane airport, which the Coombs report admits the Liberals planned to start constructing in 1973, exposes as a myth the claim that Labor cares about pollution and the quality of life. More particularly it highlights the thinking that if one does not live in Sydney or Melbourne one is considered politically expendable. It is a pity the Minister walked out because I would like to hear whether he believes that Brisbane is politically expendable. Since I spoke on 2 occasions last week I have been told that the Government made a specific request to the Coombs task force that the Brisbane Airport be included in its report so that it could be discreetly axed. The Minister has an obligation to confirm or deny the truth of this.  Mr Speaker,  you are a man of democracy and will understand why I am personally upset that the Minister who has had many occasions to confirm or deny these allegations has seen fit once again to run from the concern which I express on behalf of 50,000 Brisbane citizens. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will not send him a Christmas card and I am quite sure that no one in Queensland will do so either because he has been nothing but a disaster since his appointment. The Minister continues to seek asylum in the confines of his office and has refused three opportunities to explain what the Government is or is not doing in Brisbane. It is a shameful display of discourtesy and blows to pieces yet another Australian Labor Party myth - open Government. The promise of the construction of a new international terminal instead of the beginning of noise relief is an insult to the intelligence of a city of nearly 1 million people. I will continue to speak on every day that it is possible to do so about the Brisbane Airport, until the Minister informs the Parliament of the Government's intentions. On the previous 2 occasions on which I have spoken I made references to when the Minister was but an Opposition member. Let me spell it out once again because I see the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  present in the chamber tonight. 
The Coombs task force report requested by the present Labor Government spelt out very clearly that the previous Government intended spending Sim this year on the Brisbane Airport, approximately $13m next year and approximately $18m the year later. Honourable members in this time of inflation might say: 'What is $32m - but a drop in the bucket'. But the truth is that the previous Government was at last beginning to begin. At last it was starting to do something about providing Brisbane with a new airport. Unfortunately we had a change of government. The Labor Party regards north of the New South Wales border as being totally expendable. Every time in the past when honourable members opposite have prattled on about the quality of life, people outside - particularly the young - have believed that the Labor Party was a party that cared. Its attitude on this occasion indicates that its words have had but a hollow ring, that me quality of life as judged by the Labor Party is something that is measured more by the capacity of a particular area to produce votes and win seats in this House than by a concern for the welfare of the people of that area. I take this opportunity to remind you,  Mr Speaker,  because I know you like this job, that your job is imperilled because of the closed mind and ignorance of the present Minister. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  won his seat by only 35 votes at the last election. He has told me that he hopes to do better next time. He has assured me that he has spoken to the Minister for Civil Aviation on this subject. Let me assure the Parliament that the honourable member Lilley stands condemned by the Minister's inaction. The Minister's inaction indicates that the Minister regards the honourable member for Lilley as a man of little worth. If the Minister cared about him he would be doing something. It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Lilley, who does not have any personality problems, will be sacrificed on the altar of progress at the next election. I assure him - through you,  Sir -  that he will pay the price for the Minister's inaction and for the way in which the Government has continued to ignore the city of Brisbane while it has been poised on the verge of progress. We have waited for long enough- 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has just claimed that at last my interest has been awakened. He made reference before to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and talked about his own seniority in the House. Allow me to remind the honourable member that before he was even chosen as a candidate for his Party I was appearing before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise making representations on behalf of my constituents about aircraft noise. If the honourable member for Bowman had made a detailed study of my past performances in the House on this subject I am quite certain that he would have found other references in Hansard besides simply one on civil- 
Sit down and be quiet. I let you talk without interrupting. So sit down will you? 
I do not reflect on the staff of the Library. Perhaps the instructions to them on how to look were not clearly defined. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  last night and the honourable member for Bowman again tonight referred to the inactivity of the previous Government. The truth is that aeroplanes have become noisy in recent years. The advent of the big jet has changed the situation from that which existed some years ago. The old DC3s and DC4s did not pose very much of a problem at all, but the advent of the Jumbo, the 707 and the 727 has. It was when I first came into this Parliament that those big jets were coming on to the routes and there were but a few of them in Australia. I do not heap praise upon the previous Government for what it did or did not do, and I am consistent in my criticism; but the truth is that the Coombs report - a document compiled on instructions from the Australian Labor Party - states that the Liberal-Country Party Government was to start spending money this year on a new airport for Brisbane. This is true. 
That is stated on page 149, as the honourable member for Petrie reminds me. I thank the honourable member. I remind you,  Mr Speaker,  in the absence of the wayward Minister, the missing Minister who does not have the courage to come into this House but who sends his little henchmen along to try to speak on his behalf, that it was the honourable member for Petrie who was confronted with an announcement in huge headlines in March in the 'Australian' stating: 'SI 50m planned for Queensland Airport'. The 'Courier-Mail' carried this headline: 
First steps'- 
It was a wake up because it had those words in inverted commas -  for new airport planned. 
The honourable member for Petrie then wrote to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  and asked: 'Where is it going to be?' The Minister answered him in an evasive manner. He said: 'We really do not know.' Perhaps the honourable member for Petrie can speak on this on another night and reinforce me. 
If I can refer again to last year or the year before, I clearly recall going to the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  and saying:  'Sir, if  I am asked what should be done for Queensland and what should be given a very high priority I would nominate the resiting of our airport.' The previous honourable member for Lilley was the Minister for Housing. It is very unfair of the honourable member for Bowman to castigate him, because it is difficult for Ministers to talk on portfolios outside their area of responsibility. But I assure the House with all the honesty and sincerity that I can conjure up at this moment that we attempted to get a new airport for Brisbane. What has happened? The idea appears to have been scrapped. I refer to an editorial in the Courier-Mail' on 31 August, which is headed New Airport is Essential'. If the honourable member thinks I have jets on the brain he wants to listen to what it states. It states: 
It would be intolerable for Brisbane if the Federal Government were to accept the Coombs Task Force Report favouring deferral of the updating of Brisbane Airport. 
A clear statement of the Government's intentions on the airport is needed to satisfy Brisbane and the local residents affected by the project but still uncertain of the future of their land and homes. 
The uproar in Sydney over the Galston airport plan is an example of what can happen without adequately announced long-range intentions. 
How we listened to the Minister's spokesmen. What a piteous stage we have reached when the Minister for Civil Aviation will not speak in this Parliament about his intentions for north of the border. 
Where? I would be happy to sit down immediately and let him speak if he walked into the House, but I believe be does not have the courage. People in Queensland want to know where they stand. I regret to draw the honourable member for Lilley into this matter, but he claimed that he spoke for the Minister and the facts arc that he has been an ineffective spokesman. The Coombs report stands as testimony for the work that the honourable member's predecessor and I did in the past 2 years. The Brisbane suburbs of Hendra, Ascot, Hamilton, Doomben, Eagle Farm, Bulimba, Balmoral, Hawthorne, Norman Park, Merthyr, New Farm, Teneriffe and Newstead all belong to the group that has been described so aptly by myself as the unlucky thirteen. The 50,000 people - there are at least 50,000 of them - who live in those suburbs are the unlucky 50,000. 
All I want is for the evasive Minister, a Minister who belongs to a Party which came to power on the promise of open government, to speak on this matter in the House. He has come here and clammed up like a Newcastle shell. We cannot get anything out of him. He just sits there ignoring pleas. Last night he handed out the greatest insult of all to the people of these 13 unlucky suburbs, because when he saw me stand up to speak again he walked out. The honourable member for Petrie expresses indigation at a recollection of history from yesterday. It is true and it is a continuing condemnation not only of the Minister but also of the whole Australian Labor Party. 
I know that the House is about to be treated to a speech by the second of the terrible twins with the great union background or from wherever they may come, who will stand up and tell us what this new Government is doing. If the honourable member for Lilley has any courage, what he will do is to select one of my speeches from last Wednesday night, last Thursday night, last night or even my speech tonight and repeat it word for word. If the honourable member does that, the Minister for Civil Aviation will recognise that members of his own Party from Brisbane are equally as concerned as I am about this matter. I know that they leave this chamber after each adjournment debate, go up to his office and say: Charlie, he has been at it again. Do not worry. Do not take any notice of it because it is not a problem'. But for the people of Brisbane it is a problem. I will conclude my speech one minute before my allotted time expires as a mark of respect to the airport on which work would have started under my Party but has not started under this Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Is the Government investigating the laws relating to advertising in Australia. 
Is so, (a) what investigations have been made to date and (b) is the Minister prepared to state precisely the area of likely change. 
 lt is good to see the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  back to hear this for the first time. I refer to Hansard of 3 May when the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  said: 
There has been a long standing practice in this place - certainly while I have been a member for the last 14) years - that if an honourable member intends to make an attack on another honourable member he always pays him the courtesy of telling him in advance. 
The Minister is again not here tonight and I regret very much that for the sixth time in a row he has failed to turn up and take advantage of the opportunity to answer the questions that I have to lay on the table in relation to the future development of the Brisbane airport. I refer to a Press release issued by the former Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Premier of Queensland on 16 December 1971 when they jointly announced 'a master plan for Brisbane airport'. On 9 August 1972 the Commonwealth Department of Works and Department of Civil Aviation and the Queensland Co-ordinator-General's Department issued a statement entitled: 'Brisbane Airport Development. Environmental Study Begins'. That study in Brisbane was to include the physical features - topography, drainage, tidal flows, water and air quality, soil types, land use and the sea beds; flora - plant life including mangroves in the area adjacent to Moreton Bay and marine plants in Bramble Bay; fauna- bird and animal life in the airport area, fish, prawns, other marine life, mosquitoes and sandflies; also aircraft noise, historical and archeological sites, etc. 
That was the beginning or the environmental study, which a reading of last night's Hansard shows that the honourable members for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  and Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  say was never commenced. The Courier-Mail' of 17 August 1972 had an article with a heading, 'Brisbane Airport $500,000 Survey'. The report originated from Canberra. It stated: 
The Civil Aviation Department will spend $500,000 this financial year on investigations for major development at Brisbane Airport This is revealed in the 1972-73 'Budget Papers. 
I refer to the Senate Hansard of 23 May 1973. The Minister representing the Minister for Transport,  Senator Cavanagh,  in a reply to a question by  Senator Lawrie  stated: 
The Brisbane Airport studies have advanced to the point where preliminary cost estimates are available for Government consideration together with a quite comprehensive environmental impact statement. 
The present Government has endeavoured to justify its stalling of the advancement of the Brisbane airport by stating that the environmental studies are not complete. It has done nothing but stall recently. The honourable members opposite when we have heard them on various ocacsions have claimed that this is a big dream, that the Labor Government is not really stalling on the Brisbane airport. I would appreciate a reply to the expression of none other than the Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Jones, in the 'Courier Mail" of 23 August 1973: 
The recommendation to defer the establishment of a new airport for Brisbane was disappointing, the Lord Mayor, (Alderman Jones) said yesterday. Alderman Jones was commenting on the Federal Budget handed down by the Treasurer. The deferment recommendation was contained in the Coombs report. 'J have always had the greatest respect for  Dr Coombs,  but I am very disappointed that he has recommended the airport be deferred', said Alderman Jones. 
As I have said time and time again in this House recently, the previous Government was definitely - there is no argument about this - to spend $lm this year on the commencement of the Brisbane airport. In the next financial year it had allocated a sum of $13m and- 
The honourable member says: 'Rubbish'. It is about time he woke up and started to care for Queensland. Maybe he does not care about Wellington Point- 
Whilst many of the things that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  said are commendable for the sentiments expressed in them, let me draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Liberal Party is the party which turns words into reality. The honourable member for Cook referred to the fact that there is one Aborigine in the Senate. Let me remind him that that senator is a Liberal and that the honourable member's Party is yet to endorse an Aboriginal candidate who is in the position of winning. The action of the Liberals in endorsing minority groups can be further underlined by the fact that in the history of the Australian Parliament - I am referring now to a majority minority group and one . which has been kept down by the Australian Labor Party - only 8 women have become members of either the House of Representatives or the Senate. Two women have entered the House of Representatives and six women have entered the Senate. The 2 women who have come into the House of Representatives both have been Liberals, and of the 6 women who have come into the Senate five have been Liberal ladies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the honourable member to return to the Bill and to deal with the feminine question later. 

Yes,  Sir. I  was just drawing this to the attention of the House as an example of how the Liberal Party does what it says, and at times even more. In speaking to the Bill providing for arrangements with the States with respect to Aboriginal affairs. I have a duty at this time, on the first occasion since the unfortunate matter erupted, to draw to the attention of this Parliament and to leave in the record of Hansard forever a case which underlines the inept manner in which this new Government, which presently reaches out into the States for more powers, handled the procurement of the Hill End hostel in Brisbane.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  whilst the Opposition is not opposing the Bill, you will recall the words of the Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal affairs, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who comes from north Queensland, when he drew to the attention of the House the fact that the Bill and the explanatory notes are more famous for what they do not say than for what they do say. 
As I said, this is the first opportunity the Parliament has given me to raise this subject without having to speak in an adjournment debate or the like. Let me go back a few months to the latter part of June 1973. At that time somehow it was announced that the new Labor Government had bought the Baptist Theological College in the Brisbane suburb of Hill End for the purpose of a hostel for Aborigines. It was announced suddenly, and because of misunderstandings which exist in our community there was a reaction which members of the Australian Labor Party themselves have described as understandable. The reaction was not pleasant. I recall contacting the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  and advising him that there was a great necessity for a public meeting to be held and that he should be present to address it. I commend the Minister - and this is where my commendation ends - for his willingness to come to this public meeting. Furthermore, he acted with speed. He interrupted his return flight from Cairns in north Queensland to Melbourne in the south especially to address this public meeting in Brisbane which I had helped to organise. 
I hope that the honourable member for Petrie will take the opportunity afterwards to back me up in these views. As he said, the problem was that even before the Minister attended the meeting he was making statements to the effect that he had no sympathy for the objectors to the hostel. He had not even been there. He had not heard their views but he was stating quite clearly that he had no sympathy. On 23 June he said that the hostel would provide 'student facilities and a respectable place for Aboriginals to live'. 
No one could argue against the sentiment or the endeavour of the Minister. However, the public meeting was held and approximately 300 local residents plus a number of disruptive outsiders attended. The Minister's attitude was arrogant. 
Yes. The Minister's attitude was so arrogant that it had the effect of making a long time Labor voter stand up and say to the Minister: 'Get down off your high horse.' He proclaimed to that angry crowd that had been whipped up by the Minister that he was a Labor voter - a brave thing to do at that time - yet his reaction was: 'Get down off your high horse'. Further on that occasion - I give the Minister a small credit tick for this - he accepted an invitation by a  Mr Forrest  who was at the meeting to visit Manhattan Walk and Musgrave Park. This is recorded in the 'Sunday Mail' of 24 June. The invitation followed an offer by the Minister to anyone in the audience to go down and look at a hostel which was operating in Victoria. One of the problems and concerns of the people is that Musgrave Park and Manhattan Walk are probably only a mile from the proposel hostel. The people are concerned about the close proximity to what is commonly described as a sometimes undesirable part of Brisbane. 
The Minister went to Manhattan Walk. 
No, he did not go after dark. At that time the Minister was responding to a challenge from  Mr Forrest  to go there, and the Minister said: 'As long as you will come to Melbourne and look at this hostel.' The Minister accepted, but since then no contact has been made with  Mr Forrest  who offered to pay his own fare to Melbourne and who was promised that he would be shown the hostel. What a deplorable state of affairs. Further in this long history I wish to draw the attention of the House to the words of an Aboriginal civil rights leader,  Mr Archie  Smallwood, who summed up in a nutshell the feelings of the people of the multi-racial suburb of Hill End in Brisbane, a suburb where people have learned to live with people who are different. An article in the 'Courier Mail' of 26 June stated: 
Aboriginals want to live in a respectable fashion like everyone else. We shouldn't be judged on the Aboriginals at South Brisbane who won't help themselves.'  Mr Smallwood,  an Aboriginal who works as a foreman with the Railways Department said the proposed Gray Street, Hill End, hostel would not become a haven for Aboriginal layabouts. 'It will be a hostel for students and it will be run properly with local residents being included on the hostel committee', he said. 
That is right. Until 23 June we were told by the Minister that it would be for students. At the meeting the Minister procrastinated. He went slightly back on his word and said that the hostel would be for people. That was immediately after he answered a question in which he said that it would be basically for students. Even one day later he was going back on his word. The people went away from the meeting believing that it was to be a hostel for students. Unfortunately, some of those idiots who exist in our society endeavoured to whip up racial hatred. At that time not very pleasant slogans were painted on the walls surrounding the hostel. There were a few unfortunate public utterances, and these were not helpful. They only whipped up trouble and were condemned by all thinking people as being unnecessary and unfortunate. 
On 8 July, according to the Brisbane Courier Mail', the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs stated: 
The purpose in our mind is to accommodate Aboriginal girls completing Senior and wishing to enter commercial and other courses starting in February. 
He said a lot more. I refer to this matter while this Bill is being discussed because I seriously doubt the competence of this Australian Labor Party Government - just as the people of Parramatta expressed grave doubts last Saturday - to administer the Department correctly. On 18 July the 'Observer' newspaper, which has a huge circulation on the south side of Brisbane, including the electorate of Griffith - 
-It is not always full of Labor propaganda because it gives me an opportunity to express my Party's point of view in an honest way. On 18 July the headline read: 'Hostel use determined'. This appeared after some concern was expressed in our community as to what was going to happen. I am glad that the Minister is listening. The article read: 
There was absolutely no suggestion of the Aboriginal hostel planned for Hill End being used for anyone other than students, the Federal Member for Brisbane  . . said this week. 
He said: 'Despite recent statements to the contrary this was the Government's final decision on the matter.' Because of the growing problems of the area I responded by sending a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 2 July 1973 asking him to intervene. He advised me through his office on 6 July that the telegram had been forwarded to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. But unfortunately Brisbane was again to be neglected. The unfortunate history of the Hill End hostel shows that, after the public meeting I referred to earlier, a woman had been threatened that if she ever came into South Brisbane she should watch out. This stirring up of racial differences is something none of us, regardless of our policies, would want to see. But this was the unfortunate result. I am glad that the Minister is taking off his glasses and is listening more carefully now. That is the manner in which he should have approached this rather delicate question. 
The matter hit the 'Sunday Mail' on 29 July 1973. This is a little bit like 'Blue Hills'. The history continued: 
The Aboriginal hostel planned for Hill End will accommodate girl workers and not students when it opens on October 1. 
This is another reversal from the original stand. The 'Courier Mail' of 30 July records how I deplored the switch. The 'Australian' newspaper - perhaps the Queensland edition - on 30 July reported that Aborigines were not being consulted by the Federal Government over the use of hostels. The  President  of the Black Community Service advised that 'Aborigines were angry that the Federal Government had reserved the Hill End hostel for girl workers and not students as originally proposed'. These were the actual words of  Mr Ron  Finney. 
We come now to the next edition of 'Blue Hills'. On 8 August 1973 in the 'Observer', under the headline 'Students to use Hostels' the following report appears: 
Despite Press reports to the contrary the Federal Government still intended the Aboriginal hostel at Hill End to be set up for students', Federal member for Brisbane .... said this week. The hostel - 
It proceeds with an historical account. Honourable members may laugh. Those who come from Brisbane already know the sad history of this mucking around. My reason for raising this particular matter is that 
I believe that the Government is totally incompetent in endeavouring to control every aspect of Aboriginal affairs. The Australian Labor Party already has proved that it is a party of procrastination. The Government's handling of the Hill End hostel has been so inept and studded with contradictions, bungles and indecision that even the staunchest Labor Party supporters in the area have long since ceased to play the pollyanna game in defence. There are in existence examples of conflict between the member for Brisbane and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Nobody in Queensland knew for months what was going on. The latest headlines advise that there will be some kind of training school. Indeed, in the Courier-Mail' of 11 September appears the heading: 'West End may be a pilot'. If the present Government is steering that plane I would not like to be on it. Heaven help the poor people that the Government will be picking up simply for an experiment. 
The time allotted to me in this debate has almost concluded but I want to give one more example of the way in which the Government has treated the people of Queensland in this matter. In early September it advertised for a hostel manager and an Aboriginal house mother to be located in Brisbane at this hostel. It did not have the courtesy to place the advertisement in the 'Courier-Mail', Queensland's main newspaper. The Minister smiles. He has a particular feeling about that newspaper. The advertisement may not have been placed with that newspaper as a result of a particular instruction. However it is the height of rudeness for the Minister to advertise in other States through the national 'Australian' without giving the people of Queensland, who are not great readers of the 'Australian', an opportunity to be aware of such positions and of applying for them. 
While the Opposition does not oppose this legislation there is every reason for the State governments to continue to voice concern at the spread of centralism because already, while the Government regards itself as capable, it has shown itself to be inept and incapable. The people of Hill End in Brisbane have been treated most shabbily. Any resentment which presently exists in that area is the direct result of fumbling in the purchase of the hostel and of the conflict in the various statements that have been made in the past. 
We are addressing ourselves this afternoon to the final stages of a cognate debate. One of the Bills we are discussing is the Aged Persons Homes Bill 1973. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  claims credit for the fact that the new Government has indicated, by virtue of this legislation, that it will increase from $10 to Si 2 a week the rate of subsidy paid to eligible organisations which provide personal care services for the aged and which provide hostel accommodation. At a time such as this, when inflation is running as it is, it is only right that the Government should increase the subsidy. For members of this Government to parade as if the Government is being generous is wrong because these various organisations are finding it very difficult to keep their head above water. The new Government stands very much for government intervention and government action. Yet, in his second reading speech the Minister for Social Security set out clearly how, at times, without private organisations very little will be done. He mentioned that in the 19 years of the operation of the grants, which total some i$171m and which have provided accommodation for approximately 50,000 aged persons, local government bodies qualified for grants of only $2.2m for the projects they had commenced and had provided beds for 500 people. In other words, local authorities, which are an instrumentality of government, provided 1 per cent of total accommodation. 
The Minister, who regrettably is not present in the chamber, indicated in his second reading speech that he was worried about the system of key money and regraded as inadequate the moves of the previous Government to correct the so-called loopholes. I know that in our society certain organisations in the past have been most ruthless and unfair in their application of the principle of key money. But I believe it is a tragic mistake for members of the new Government, with all their enthusiasm, to say: 'We have a problem; let us attack it', without fully questioning and investigating the matter because homes for the aged in my electorate, with which I am most familiar, operate on the basis that if a person moves in to one of the homes and pays the so-called key money and, after a little time, it is clear that that person is not happy, the key money is refunded. Furthermore, if a person passes away after a short time of residence, a payment is made to that person's estate. It is most difficult in these times of rising costs for these organisations to meet the costs of maintenance simply from rental payments. 
On Monday evening last I attended the annual general meeting of the Blue Nursing Services of Queensland. Whilst I do not have its annual report with me in Canberra my memory is that after running the accommodation service its total loss was $23,000. It is all very well for a centralist government based here in Canberra, surrounded by fat cats and others, from a great distance to consider the problems faced by others who are miles away. But I wonder how often these persons actually go into the far flung areas of this continent to examine the real problems that are being experienced. I know that it is government that decides policy but I would hope that those in the position in our hardworking Public Service who are in a position to know would make every effort to present all sides of the case to these socialistically inclined Ministers. 
Today we are considering a Bill to amend the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act of 1970, which is called the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill 1973. Its purpose is to increase the subsidy on ordinary meals from 15c to 20c and from 20c to 25c for meals which include either fresh fruit or fruit juice with a high vitamin content. The original Act was a dream of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
That is right. He has the mumps and is confined to bed. No doubt he would like to be here to speak on the Bill. As a person who has not had mumps and has had a lot of advice on not having had them, I suggest that he best lie still until he is fully recovered. However, the Bill simply increases the subsidy. This is not of great moment except that it meets the inflation which has happened under the present Government. 
I believe that it was a wise move of the Government to decide to make the payment of the subsidy on a quarterly basis instead of an annual basis. This is a good move and indeed is one that was requested earlier this year by the various meal organisations at a conference which, I think, was held in Sydney. It is time that we looked again at the Meals on Wheels movement and considered it in the light of our present society - a society in which more women work than ever before. Many of the women who are now in the work force previously made great contributions to charity and assisted with various community efforts. While I commend forever those persons who give of their time to assist in this most worth while project, it is proper that we examine the difficulties various organisations are meeting in their endeavours to obtain people to deliver meals. 
I have always believed that in our society some people are honest because they can afford to be honest, where other less affluent people are not so honest because of their financial situation which at times drives them to do things which they possibly would prefer not to do. The same applies, I believe, to people who give their time to charity. Not everyone is in the position to be able to afford to give his or her time to charity. I am quite sure that there are many women in our society who would dearly love to assist in delivering meals to the aged and to the sick, but who, because they are not born lucky or are not living in an affluent situation, simply cannot afford to do so. I ask the Government to give consideration to some scheme whereby a payment could be made on a mileage basis to those persons who would be prepared to give their time but otherwise could not afford to do so. 
I realise that there are many people who would not hear for a moment of any form of payment for their services, and this is good. But I still believe that there is a great, untapped source within our society which could be utilised if we could devise some system which would help to finance them to be able to assist. While I confess to not having thought a lot about this particular matter, it has crossed my mind frequently. I am sure that it is the first time that it has ever been raised in this Parliament or any parliament to my knowledge, and it is something which honourable members on both sides of the House could turn their attention to because it is deserving of some thought. 
In conclusion, because I have undertaken to make my remarks short, I want to refer to an article in the 'Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of Tuesday, 25 . September. The article reports that the honourable member for Lilley (Mr Doyle) represented the Minister for Social Security at the twentieth annual meeting of the Blue Nursing Service in Queensland. The honourable member for Lilley read a speech prepared by the Minister, so the Minister was responsible for it. He stated that the Queensland Blue Nursing Service had missed out on $'1.5m over the last 10 years due to the State Government not matching available Federal Government home nursing subsidies. This would have been all right if this Government which is presently in power had in the recent Budget amended the relevant legislation so that its payments to home nursing associations were not tied to the amount of money paid by the State governments. The criticism was most unfair. It is all right for this centralist Government to hold the purse and to be stingy. 
I think that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  is beckoning me to be seated and I assure him that I will very shortly finish my remarks. The point is that the Commonwealth Government is not making the money available to the States to enable them to meet these increased payments. With that final remark and bowing to the wishes of the Government - it wishes to get these Bills through before the dinner adjournment - 1 will cease my comments. But I ask the Minister not to be political and not to send his henchmen out into the field preaching stories which lack credibility because if his Government had been fair dinkum it would have done something about the situation, and it has not. 
 I am one who, for a number of years now, has been critical of the manner in which the affairs of this Parliament have been conducted. I adopted this stand when my Party was in government and still hold this view under the present Government. The truth is that, until 2 December last, this side of the Parliament was known as the wailing wall. It was from this side of the House that the honourable member for Grayndler, the present Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  used to cry week in and week out about the harsh injustices that were being perpetrated within the confines of the Parliament. 
Today, the story is different. The Leader of the House takes delight in continually reminding the Parliament that the Labor Party is in power and how he sat in Opposition for  2i  decades. I believe that the Leader of the House has become an embittered, cynical man who is pursuing a course of revenge in which he is excelling even the worst moments of those  2i  decades in which he was in Opposition. When each morning the Parliament begins with  Mr Speaker  reciting the 'Lord's Prayer' we on this side of the House quietly mumble the words: 'Lord, deliver us from our Daly bread'. The daily bread that we receive in the Parliament is a continuation of a feed of the gag. Gag, gag, gag! You have continued to rape democracy without shame for 8 long months. Let me assure you that the young people who comprise the majority of this nation's population were somewhat affected by your plaintive pleas over the years. They thought that the Liberals were horrible in government. But by comparison, and by the manner in which you have acted, you have made us look like angels. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I suggest that the honourable member should direct his remarks to the Chair. 
Well, you have made us look like angels too. By comparison, we gave the Parliament a fair opportunity to operate as it is meant to operate. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that my outbursts from time to time about the manner in which the Labor Party gags debates are sincerely motivated. Today, we had a deplorable exhibition when the House of Representatives was given the opportunity to debate a most important question, which in a few weeks time will be the subject of a national referendum, for only 2 hours. I do not believe that that was a fair or a sensible go. But I give the Leader of the House, who was present earlier this evening, credit for being a do-er. One must confess, the improvements in facilities that he has provided are most marked. No matter what we may think of him, he has made a contribution to the betterment of the way of life of members of the Parliament. I would hope most sincerely- 
The Minister for Labour, who is at the table, and who has the same surname as I - Cameron - says that the Minister has increased the stamp allowance. What a miserly old man the Minister is that he should look forward to that extra $20 a month. My mind, even with my Scottish ancestry, is on far greater and more important matters. 
If the Parliament is to sit for longer periods each year - for longer hours and more days each year - we must take into consideration that the workload on members will increase. If more legislation is to be introduced, we will be required to spend more time sifting out the weaknesses and the strengths of proposed and impending legislative actions. Therefore, those of us who have responsibility to our electorates will face an even more difficult task in attending to those duties. 
I believe that members of the State Parliament in South Australia are each entitled to a personal secretary. As from 1 October, State members of the Queensland Parliament will be provided with a personal secretary each. My Federal electorate in Brisbane contains 5 times as many people as the number of electors serviced by each Queensland State member. It is becoming absolutely impossible for a member of the Federal Parliament to attend to the needs of the people whom he represents. My electorate is a less affluent electorate. On the whole, my electors are not richly endowed. These people turn to their member of Parliament more frequently than do people in an electorate such as that represented by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, the Minister for Labour, who is presently at the table, and who has a great delight in representing fat cats. 
My people need assistance from their Federal member. The time required to service their needs combined with the requirement for more time to be spent on attending to and studying legislation means that private members can justify a claim for an increase in their staff. I really believe with great sincerity that, in the 1970s, the failure by the present Government to take some steps to provide members with some type of research assistance is a continuation of the narrow-mindedness of the previous Government and an indication of the continuation of that narrow-mindedness or rather short-sightedness by the new Government. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  my good friend, says: 'Hear, hear!' It is not a case of Hear, hear!'; it is a case of: 'Help, help!' If people in the outside world who write to us could see the manner in which we treat their correspondence they would be shocked. 
Many members on the Government side boast about what they do with their mail. They look at their mail each day, pick it up in their hands and dump it in their waste paper baskets. I know that not all of them do that, but some of them do. I believe that the people of Australia deserve a better deal. If we are to service the needs of our constituents properly, it is time that we were prepared to recognise that members of the Parliament do need some form of research assistance. 
In conclusion, I endorse the comments of all those members who have spoken in this debate and have condemned the growing practice by the Government of avoiding the making of statements in the Parliament. Government Ministers know that if they come in here and make statements on these subjects they must be prepared for criticism from those with expertise on this side of the Parliament who will criticise them if that criticism is justified. To avoid this, they hold these little Press conferences, make Press releases and so on in an effort to sidestep the democratic processes. I know that the honourable member for Hindmarsh wishes the debate on these estimates to conclude. I will resume my seat to give him the opportunity to do that. But do not take too lightly the words that I have uttered. The people of Australia are coming to recognise, as each day goes by, as they demonstrated in the Parramatta byelection last Saturday, that the Labor Government is not coming across with the goods as, only last year, it appeared to wish to do. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I will keep my comments brief. I am quite sure that people throughout the country districts of Australia will breathe a sigh of relief now that the Government has suddenly seen wisdom and has changed its original approach. For my part I could never understand why at the beginning the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who I believe is approaching his task in a responsible manner, and the new Government were not prepared to wait for the results of the Commission that it set up to look into the workings of the Australian Post Office. The country people have been given relief. It is strange that members of the Government Party this afternoon have risen to commend the wisdom of the Government. It is strange that this wisdom was non existent when this Bill was introduced into this Parliament. The Senate amended the Bill under threat of the postal increases being totally blocked. The Government then conceded this particular point. It is strange that the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  who spoke before me praised the parliamentary institution.  His  Party has the policy of abolishing the Australian Senate, the upper House. If we did not have a Senate this Bill would have been passed in toto. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Treasury I think it is appropriate that one should draw to the attention of the Parliament and the people of Australia the fact that there has been an increase in the expenditure of this Department from some $114m to SI 57m. The worrying aspect of the allocation of finance lies under the heading of Salaries and Payments in the nature of Salaries'. In this area we see an increase from some $91m last year to a figure of $132m this year. Therefore, the cost of running the Department of the Treasury in this regard is up by some 40 per cent in one year. There are those who have regarded galloping inflation as involving an increase of around 10 per cent or 12 per cent a year, but here in a government department is an increase in the allocation for salaries of 40 per cent, from $91m to $132m. Who is making this money available - the ordinary people out away from the national capital and, of course, some of those here. It is the people of Australia who are being so heavily taxed to make possible this tremendous growth in the allocation of salaries for the Department of the Treasury. 
When one looks back on the recent Budget and recalls that this mean, lousy Government has taken away from all men over 65 years of age and from all women over 60 the age tax allowance, one wonders how it can parade itself in this Parliament as a Party with heart. How can it do that? So frequently when honourable members of the Opposition have pointed to the fact that the Budget by its very nature has contributed to inflation Government supporters have said: 'Tell us what you would save money on. Where would you not spend the money?' Government supporters have said: 'Are you saying that we should reduce pensions? Should we reduce the allocation for Aboriginal welfare or social security?' They mention all those emotive areas but it is only when one starts carefully to scrutinise the manner in which the money is being spent in an instance such as this that one realises that the reason the people of Australia are being belted from pillar to post is to finance some of these grandiose schemes which have been hatched out of the infertile imagination of a government which is already cracking at the seams. 
The Australian economy is well and truly on the skids. The attack by the Prime Minister on the Australian Stock Exchange 2 or 3 weeks ago indicated a lamentable lack of knowledge. He suggested that it was the people who run the Stock Exchange who are manipulating prices and causing the falls which have taken place. He admitted that his understanding of economics is but small, but he failed to realise that the fall has happened because the confidence of the average Australian has been eroded because of the policies of this Government. At a time of inflation and money being worth less, the values of shares in companies such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd should be going up commensurate with the inflationary trend, but instead everything is going backwards. 
I have heard a story about building societies. Perhaps this could well be a chance for the Treasurer to enlighten the House as to whether the story is true or false. There is a story that the Treasury or some other Government agency had to move in following the Treasurer's statements about building societies to stop the flow of money out of them. This action was taken to prevent the whole concept of building societies from crashing to the ground worse than Wall Street did during the worst depression this world has known. 
The honourable member for Kooyong asks: Is that a fact? I do not know. I have only heard it spoken. I hope that the Minister will take the opportunity here tonight to tell us whether in fact this is the case. One has only to turn back into very recent history to discover another deplorable situation. I recall the words of the Prime Minister in speaking in this Parliament or on the platforms throughout the nation that his was a decisive government - a government which was able to make decisions about the value of the Australian currency relative to the value of foreign currency. He referred back to the 3-day deliberation that went on a couple of years ago when the previous Government had to wrestle with the same problem. But only recently we had another confidence shattering example of bungling by the Labor Government. A decision was made in Caucus, that body made up of all the wise men from various parts of Australia. I see my friend the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  over there, the great economist, in his purple suit. I see the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  the Minister for something yesterday and I am not quite sure what today; but at least he was a trier in his previous portfolio. Men such as those make up caucus. It was announced that interest rates in this country would rise and that charges would rise. The matter went to Caucus or, as it is commonly called these days, cactus, which made a decision that the matter should be referred to the Caucus economics committee. 
I am told that there is a difference between a caucus and a cactus but I am not sure what it is. The economics committee deliberated for 3 weeks. For 3 weeks no one knew what was going on. Yet this Government has presented us with an Appropriation Bill - expecting support from honourable members on this side of the chamber - by which with its own spending it is adding to the impetus of inflation. I repeat that the allocation for salaries and payments in the nature of salaries for the Treasury - every Australian should take note of this - has risen from $91 m to $132m. Where is the money coming from? It is coming from the taxpayers. It is coming from those elderly people who have had taken from them the tax allowance concessions they had. It is coming from the small man, the man in the street, who previously supported the present Government but who recognises today that it is a Government of ineptitude - an incompetent Government.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you might convey the message that the people of Australia are just waiting for an election, for the opportunity to show the Prime Minister, his 27 Ministers and the rest of the Australian Labor Party what the people think of their first 305 days in office. The country is going backwards. It is the little people outside who count. Undoubtedly the ministerial and parliamentary salaries will continue but it is the little people who count, and they are the ones who are being knocked. Again I express amazement that the appropriation for salaries for one department has risen from $91m to S132m. I wonder what will happen with this money. Will it be used to employ another 500 people to chase up the taxpayers? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is a pity that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is sitting at the table, is no longer fully responsible for the actions of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Although I have had considerable disagreement with him in the past on certain subjects, I am firmly convinced that he - like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who also struck stormy times - is a man who was sincerely motivated in his interest in the welfare of the Aboriginal people. 
Perhaps it was that interest which led to their downfall. It amused me to hear the honourable member for Brisbane say 'Hear, hear'. I can cite examples of contradiction after contradiction between him and the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. At least the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and present Minister for the Capital Territory has been given the crumb job of representing in this chamber the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is this year to increase its expenditure from $46m to $89m. 
The honourable member for Brisbane says that more is to come. As far as I am concerned, it is about time the Government became honest about its actions and started to tell this Parliament exactly what it has in mind instead of saying that more is to come. The figures shown in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74 hardly tell us anything. For instance, a proposal to increase expenditure from $3 2m to $70m is described simply as 'Aboriginal Advancement (for payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account)' What the devil that means I do not know. 
I take the opportunity of this debate on the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to remind the Minister for the Capital 
Territory that 2 weeks ago- on 25 September - he was reported at page 1469 of Hansard as saying: 
Many questions were raised this afternoon, and perhaps honourable members opposite will forgive me if I leave the answers to some of them until the Estimates debates start. 
I see a smile on the face of the Minister for the Capital Territory. Heaven help the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I want to remind the Parliament of an issue which I raised on 25 September. I refer to the shabby deal that I believe has been dealt to the residents of the Brisbane suburb of Hill End by the Labor Government in its wishy-washy handling of the purchase of the former Baptist Theological College in that suburb. I point out to the Minister for his sake and so that when he does get a chance to reply to my comments - I imagine that that will be tomorrow - he will have it clearly in his mind that he stated on 23 June that the proposed hostel at Hill End would provide study facilities and a respectable place for Aborigines to live. On 24 June - if that was a Saturday - he stated initially at a public meeting that it would be for students and immediately afterwards said that it would be a place for people to live - a slight retraction. On 8 July the honourable member for Brisbane came out and said in his capacity as  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs- 
The honourable member for Brisbane does not know yet what I am going to say. On 8 July he was reported in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' as having said- 
The Minister for the Capital Territory says 'Oh'. 
I am glad the honourable member for Brisbane has clarified that matter. In the making of statements the honourable member has not hesitated to use the mantle of his dual role to boost his importance as a spokesman for the Labor Party. Let me quote what he said: 
The purpose in our mind is to accommodate Aboriginal girls completing Senior and wishing to enter commercial and other courses starting in February. 
I wish again to quote what was reported to have been said by the honourable member following some suggestions that the hostel was to be used for other purposes. On 18 July, under the large headline 'Hostel use determined', the following statement appeared: 
There was absolutely no suggestion of the Aboriginal hostel planned for Hill End being used for anyone other than students, the Federal member for Brisbane Central,  Mr Manfred  Cross, said this week. 
That article appeared in another newspaper. The 'Sunday Mail' of 29 July 1973 carried the story that the Aboriginal hostel planned for Hill End will accommodate girl workers and not students when it opens on 1 October. The picture was unfolding for all to see. I hold up the 'Sunday Mail' of that date and read a little further from it. The article to which I am referring went on to say that an official of the Federal Aboriginal Affairs Department,  Mr Bob  Huey, said this in Canberra yesterday. One of the things that the people of Hill End, whom I represent, want explained to them is what authority  Mr Bob  Huey had to make statements which were contrary to those of the honourable member for Brisbane and to indications which the Minister had himself given. I repeat that that article appeared on 29 July. I come now to an article which appeared in the 'Observer' - a large newspaper which is distributed on the south side of Brisbane. 
It has a circulation of 100,000. It has a larger circulation than the Australian Labor Party's magazine Trend', whose circulation is diminishing. On 8 August the 'Observer' reported: 
Despite Press reports to the contrary the Federal Government still intended the Aboriginal hostel at Hill End to be set up for students, Federal member for Brisbane,  Mr Manfred  Cross, said this week. 
That is just one small chapter in the procrastination and uncertainty which has surrounded this hostel. The Minister is sitting at the table with his jaw in his cupped hand wondering what the devil has gone on behind his back. Is it any wonder that today - the day on which he was dropped from the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs - he has suddenly been able to see the reasons why there were people who had doubts as to his capacity to run his Department properly. I do not believe that this is representative just ofthe Minister. I believe it is something which is happening in almost every department under the new Government. It is not the fault of the departments - it is a case of the right not knowing what the left is doing and the left not knowing what the right is doing. 
All of this has sadly had the effect of creating a degree of bad will in the suburb of Hill End. Unfortunately the people of Hill End have been portrayed as racists by certain elements within our society. All they want to know is what has been planned. I hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory, as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, will when he has an opportunity to do so spend quite a few minutes telling us what went wrong and how it is that  Mr Bob  Huey was allowed to make a statement which was so contrary to the assurances we had received from other quarters. It is just not good enough that the whole issue should be treated in this manner. We look forward to clarification of it. I assure the Government that if the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs does not clarify this matter he will regret that he ever obtained his new portfolio. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
It is indeed a tremendous pleasure to see the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  facing up to his responsibilities at long last and coming into this Parliament. For 6 long nights, in debates on the motion for the adjournment of the House, I tried to impress upon the Minister that the people of Brisbane wanted to know certain things. Each night the artful dodger stayed outside and sent in 2 unworthy henchmen in his place. After listening to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  one would think that all was well in the city of Brisbane. I hold up a newspaper clipping from the 23 August issue of the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' - a fair minded newspaper - which states that the airport proposal disappoints Jones. The keynote is that the Minister for Civil Aviation is not the Jones who is referred to; it is the Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane. All members of the Government Party would do well if they were to acquaint themselves with what the Lord Mayor of Brisbane thinks about the way in which they are shelving the development of Brisbane Airport. The honourable member for Lilley, who has just spoken in the debate, was excited about the increased appropriation under division 172. The increase is a lousy $400,000. The report of the Coombs Task Force, which was set up by the Labor Government, shows that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had set aside $lm for this year, $13m for next year, $18m for the year after that and $130m thereafter for the redevelopment of the Brisbane Airport. 
Last year the artful honourable member for Lilley had his political helpers distribute certain pamphlets in all of the suburbs of his electorate. 1 do not have one in front of me because this debate was brought on at rather short notice. They said that the women of the electorate of Lilley should vote Labor for a number of reasons. One of the reasons listed was the Labor Party's claim that it would proceed immediately with the development of Brisbane Airport. What a disappointment they have received. I am sorry to have to inform the honourable member for Lilley, who arrived here only recently, that he will pay the price for the Minister's refusal to get on with the job in Brisbane. It is all right for the honourable member for Lilley to stand up and say that over the last 2 decades of the LiberalCountry Party Government's administration very little was done, but the truth of the matter is that only in very recent years has jet noise increased to the extent that it is polluting the quality of life of people living under the flight paths of these huge aeroplanes. I agree with the honourable member for Lilley that the previous Government was a little slow. Tullamarine and the other areas received a better deal than Brisbane. On the other hand, it is no use looking at that situation today. Apparently there is no allocation in the Budget for the development of Brisbane Airport. The report of the Coombs Task Force clearly sets out the fact that the Liberal-Country Party Government intended to do something in the near future. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
I will continue the remarks that I was making prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner. My only regret is that on this occasion the Minister for Civil Aviation has seen fit once again to dodge the issue by prolonging his dinner break. 
The honourable member for Mcpherson says: 'Not again'. Yes, the answer is sadly 'again'. I see the Minister coming back into the chamber and I welcome him. To those in the Parliament who might wonder at my own efforts in preceding years and my interest in the Brisbane airport I quickly outline the fact that I appeared before the House of Representatives 
Select Committee on Aircraft Noise in about 1969. Last year I went to the then Prime Minister and informed him that 2 things must be done for the city of Brisbane. The first matter was that we should get on with building the new Brisbane airport and the other issue referred to improving the standard of living of those people reliant upon the pension and social service benefits. 
I notice that the Minister for Civil Aviation is now listening intently. There are 13 unlucky suburbs in the city of Brisbane. The 4 suburbs in my electorate which are affected are Bulimba, Balmoral, Hawthorne and Norman Park. The people in those suburbs were living on the brink of a promise that the Liberal Government would shift the airport and rearrange it so flight paths would be altered over the city of Brisbane. Unfortunately the country was struck with disaster on 2 December last year and the Government changed. I wish to place questions before the Minister now. I ask the questions bearing in mind that the privacy of those people to whom I referred is being plundered every time the breezes of Brisbane exceed 5 knots and aeroplanes have to fly over the city area to land at Eagle Farm. My first question is: Why has there not been an allocation of finance for the Brisbane airport in the Budget? Secondly, why has the Minister been avoiding me and refusing to answer my questions? Thirdly, will the Minister promise me that he is making a start which will thus ensure that relief will be brought to the poor wretches who live under the flight path? Fourthly, is it true that the Coombs Committee which had to prepare the recent report was specifically directed to give the kiss of death to the Brisbane airport? Those are questions we want answered. 
If democracy worked a little better and members of the Opposition had a better go at question time I would ask these questions then. But all honourable members know that Opposition members get only one question every 3 weeks, something unfortunately which the Opposition, when in government, condoned. I hope that the Government, while it is in a position to do so, will recognise the injustice and will do something about question time. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  has not returned to the chamber after the suspension for dinner. He is lilywhite with fear because he knows that, with his 35 vote majority, the stalling of the development of the Brisbane airport could well cost him his seat. As I mentioned earlier, a special pamphlet was issued during the campaign for the last election which stated: 'Why will women vote Labor in Lilley?' One of the reasons for stating that that would be the case was because Labor women cared about the Brisbane airport. They might care about it but the Minister does not care. As far as I am concerned he is .the man that counts. I have spoken on this question on some 7 occasions now and I am almost tiring of my own speech. At long last the Minister is in the chamber while this matter is being debated. I tear off for him from my notes the questions that I have directed to him. I ask that they be handed to the Minister so that when he replies to the debate on these estimates he will take those questions into account. 
I wish to conclude on a happier note. Today we learned through the presentation of the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd that this great company made a profit for the last financial year of $466,000. 
The Minister for Services and Property says that that is because of Jack Egerton. I would like to believe that it was a result of the efforts of Jack Egerton but he was the person who said that the winner takes all and that it is the fat cats who get all the fat jobs. I draw the attention of the Committee to this fact: For some years I sat on the other side when my Party was in Government and pleaded - I know that I had the backing in those days of the then Minister for Civil Aviation - for Qantas to open its mind a little and to venture into such activities as charter flights. But under the wonderful chairmanship of  Sir Roland  Wilson, nothing happened. Fortunately, changes have been made. I refer to the composition of the Qantas Board. That company changed its attitude and embarked on providing cheaper air fares. Now its planes are full all the time and its profits are increasing. This opportunity was present at all times but was not taken advantage of because of the failure of a group of men to recognise that new business was there if only they would go after it. 
We in Australia are thousands of miles from many countries in the world. It is probably more expensive for Australians than for the people of any other country to see the world. When I speak of the world, I refer to such popular places for visitors as Britain, 
Italy, Greece and Spain - but not France, these days. At long last Qantas has woken up. It is for this reason that its profits have increased. If Qantas can reduce its fares further, more people will travel on its services and its profits will continue to rise. 
My final remark will excite the Minister. I was absolutely flabbergasted when the new civil aviation charges were introduced in the Budget. These charges have had the effect of causing flight costs throughout Australia to rise once again. The battle by internal airlines against the competition presented by the cheap fares which are available for journeys outside this country is a tough one. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
That is unfortunate. 
Firstly, I want to apologise to you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for having reacted so angrily to the fact that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  was on his feet for a second time. I had forgotten that in the Estimates debates there is an opportunity for honourable members to speak twice. It is a long time since members have spoken on 2 occasions in a debate, and the honourable member for Lilley was quite within his rights. Now that I realise that we have a little more time, I wish to say briefly that another point that the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  should take into account is the hardship that his Party's attitude is bringing tq the people in the areas which are designated for future freeways. As we all know, Brisbane has approximately 3 miles of freeways, but all the talk that has been indulged in by members of the Australian Labor Party has thrown a huge cloud of doubt over the future of freeways. There have been veiled threats - or rather, overt threats - by this new Government that if the State governments do not toe the line ami spend the money in the manner in which the Commonwealth says they should spend it no money will be made available for expenditure on roads. 
Hence we have a serious situation in various parts of Brisbane, including the suburb of Norman Park which I mentioned earlier as one which was subject to terrible aircraft noise where the people just do not know what is going to happen in the future. I believe that the Minister has a duty during this debate to stand and say clearly one way or the other what the intentions of his Party are. How would the Minister like to live in an area that had a big, thick blue line drawn on it one year to indicate the path of a freeway, with the people wondering whether they were going to stay or go, and suddenly see a party come to power which says that it is going to stop freeway construction? I share the views of the Brisbane Labor Lord Mayor on this matter. I believe in freeways. Further, I believe that there must be more recognition within our society of the hardship which is caused when people who have lived in a certain house for years are suddenly told that they have to move. 
I recall very clearly the area through one part of my electorate where the south-east freeway of Brisbane was constructed. It was an old part of Brisbane. People who had been born there 80 or 90 years ago were suddenly required to move and it was very sad at that time to watch some of the heartbreaks and the reactions to the instructions that the big shift was on. But of even greater consequence today is the uncertainty of the future and I believe that the Minister for Transport should take the opportunity in this debate to explain to us exactly what his Party has in mind. 
In concluding my remarks, I remind the honourable member for Lilley who seems recently to have taken a great interest in the Brisbane airport that until I started my real campaign here a few weeks ago he had never moved his lips on the question of the Brisbane airport.  His  action now is a reaction to mine. No doubt the 50,000 persons who are affected by the siting of the Brisbane airport will look to me and my friend, the honourable member -for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  and say: Thank you to you both'. 
I will not let them down; that is for sure. They will say: Thank you to you both for having raised this matter*. I hope that the Minister will at long last, after avoiding the matter &gt;n 6 previous occasions, take advantage of the Estimates debate to answer the questions that I have been asking week in and week out and the questions asked by the people of Brisbane in those 13 unlucky suburbs. Those 50,000 unlucky persons are waiting to hear the answers. 
So, I will resume my seat early to ensure that the Minister has plenty of time to talk about the future of the Brisbane airport and to mention why there is no allocation for this airport in the Budget. Do not tell us that the Government is going to give us a new international terminal because that is not good enough. According to the Coombs report - a Labor produced document - we should spend $lm this year, $13m next year and $18m the next year on this airport. So, I ask the Minister to open his heart and tell us what his Party's plans are so that we can walk away knowing what is going to happen. 
Mir CHARLES JONES (Newcastle- Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation) (9.20) - I thought we might have had a few more speakers wanting to tear me apart. It is quite true, I believe, that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has risen in his place to speak on the adjournment debate on about 4 or 5 occasions. I told him then that when his Party takes him seriously, I will treat him in the same manner.  His  Party thinks he is a big joke and so does everyone else. That is the situation as far as the honourable member for Griffith is concerned. , But let us look at the whole issue of the Brisbane airport which has suddenly come to life after the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  was elected to this Parliament and started to take an interest in the airport by way of questions, letters and meetings in the electorate. Suddenly, the Liberal Party has come to life and discovered that its past had caught up with it. What we must realise is that for 23 years we had a Liberal-Country Party government, and for about 7 or 8 of those years a former Minister for Civil Aviation travelled through Brisbane airport every week on his way to his electorate. In all that time, Brisbane has had to suffer the inconvenience of having the worst capital city airport in 
Australia. Recently, from investigations I instigated and inquiries that I made, I discovered that the international terminal buildings in Brisbane are unsafe in a 50 mile an hour wind and would have to be evacuated. Yet honourable members opposite ask what this Government is going to do with Brisbane airport as if I had been the Minister for 23 years instead of only 10 months. 
When we look at some of the expenditure that has taken place on airports, we find that, since 1961, $85.5m has been spent on Melbourne's Tullamarine airport, $85.1m on Sydney's airport, $10.7m on the airport at Perth and $7.9m on the airport at Brisbane. The expenditure at Brisbane was for increased apron spaces, re-surfacing of runways, the provision of radar and aerial approach control centres. None of this work was new work; it was all maintenance work and the development of something that was already in existence. So, I wish honourable members opposite would go a little quietly in their criticisms, saying what we are failing to do. In reality, what has been done up to this point is that I have a Cabinet submission which has authorised the purchase of land at Eagle Farm to the value of $6.5m and the purchase of land for the northern site at Caboolture at a cost of $3m. In the initial stages people are slow to move but already in this year's Estimates - not in the estimates for my Department of Civil Aviation, but in the place where they belong, the Department of Services and Property - 'Sim has been provided for the immediate purchase of property. The man who was responsible for this action is the honourable member for Lilley who was recently elected to this House. He is the one who has shown all the interest. 
on asked the Acting Minister of State, upon notice: 
How many letters of invitation to subscribe to the Australian Government Digest were sent out by the Government Public Relations Office. 
On whose authority were they sent. 
Would he provide a list of categories of those who were chosen to receive the invitation. 
The Labor Party in the last month seems to have been possessed by the greatest streak of wild imagination that one has ever seen. I have never heard so much garbage from members on the other side of the House as has come from them in recent times when their electoral prospects are diminishing. They are suddenly trying to find excuses to portray the Liberal-Country Party Opposition as being totally reliant upon overseas corporations. I can tell any member opposite where I obtain my campaign funds. I do not obtain lc from overseas and I am quite sure that my Party has sources of local people who contribute. The little people contribute, not the big trade unions. The people who donate to our funds have different political philosophies from the Labor controlled unions who say to certain people that they must donate a percentage towards Labor Party slush funds. We have heard enough of this garbage. 
In recent weeks this country has been brought to its knees through industrial strife. Inflation is  Tunning  riot. Measures taken concerning tariffs and other things are to the advantage of importers and overseas manufacturers. Honourable members try to fly kites here to protect their own skins and to give the impression that all is not well in the state of Denmark. Not one member opposite has been prepared to lay on the table any proof of the claims that have been made in recent times. Let us hope that the Australian Press is mature enough not to start making headlines of the various claims which have been made by small time members of the Labor Party. 
While we are on the question of honesty and integrity I revert to an issue which I have raised many times in the last few weeks. Fortunately this is the last time that I will have to speak on the matter because at long last the Government has taken some action. The matter I refer to is the Brisbane airport. Last night the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  told the Parliament that his Government had allocated Sim through division 940 of the estimates of the Department of Services and Property. He almost gave the impression that members of Parliament who had had the idea in the past that the Government was not building a new airport at Brisbane were placing a wrong interpretation on the recent Budget. I believe that the Minister has misled this Parliament. It is a grave accusation to make and one which I have never previously made. I believe that the Minister for Civil Aviation, at a time of panic last night misled the Australian Parliament in bis presentation. 
For 2 months now I, along with the Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane and the Brisbane Courier Mail', through its editorials, have claimed that the Labor Party scrapped the Brisbane airport from its program for this coming year. The 'Courier Mail' of 31 August carried an editorial of condemnation. On 23 August the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Jones, expressed disappointment. I spoke in this Parliament half a dozen times trying to ferret out from the artful dodger what he had in mind for the Brisbane airport. Considerable suggestion had been made which had not been denied, that the Labor Party in accord with its intentions to cut down expenditure in certain areas had lopped off the proposed expenditure for the Brisbane airport. 
I commenced to campaign in this Parliament like I have never campaigned for anything in this Parliament before. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle),  who is interjecting at the moment, holds his seat by a margin of 35 votes. At long last the Minister has told the Parliament that the money is to be made available. I would say that it was a million reaction dollars. One million dollars is to be spent in an endeavour to save the seat of the honourable member for Lilley. I have nothing personal against the honourable member for Lilley, but it is not he who decides how money is spent. He and the people of Brisbane had been given a miss at the last consideration of the Budget. I said that the Minister has misled the House. He has misled the House in that he claimed that the $lm involved was put away in the estimates for 'the Department of Services and Property. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is in the House. Knowing how conniving the 2 Ministers are, I can see that they have got together, thought about the Brisbane people having them on the run, and found $lm. They have ripped the money from the Department of Services and Property and have said that it is for the Brisbane airport. All that I ask for is a little honesty from the Government. 
Well, I would hope for a little honesty from the Government. I know that $lm is not much but according to the Coombs committee report that is all that the previous Government was setting aside for this year. According to that report the Liberal-Country Party Government was setting aside $13m next year, $18m the year after and $130m thereafter. I expect in the Budget next year an allocation of similar amounts. 
The honourable member reminds me that we will be allocating money in the Budget. That will happen if there is an election in the near future and the Labor Party, as it most certainly will, goes out of power. In that event I will be as vociferous as I have been in recent weeks in attacking members of my own Party if they act to give Brisbane a rough deal. Now we are on the way let us not lose the advantage. I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation is charitable and comes into this Parliament and admits that the money has been made available as a result' of the perseverance of the honourable member for Lilley who has reacted to my persistence and my own actions. I did not tell the Minister that I was going to speak in this debate because on every previous occasion I have informed him of my intention to speak he has not had the manners to come into the Parliament and to respond. What is the use of extending courtesies to some Ministers? I assure the rest of the Ministry that I will extend the courtesy which is expected at all times. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the unanimous decision of the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to campaign for a 'no' vote on incomes in the proposed referendum? In view of the decision of the ACTU, does the Prime Minister agree that the referendum now becomes a farce and a massive waste of taxpayers' funds? Would he give serious consideration to, or inform the House whether he has considered, the idea of scrapping the whole business? 
I want to answer very briefly the comments made by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison).  I was listed originally to speak on the estimates we are now discussing, but I let my place on the list go. Most of us on this side of the chamber have been aroused by the browbeating speech given by the Minister. He has completely twisted the sentiments expressed by my friend, the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  The point is that the Australian Labor Government came to power at a time when the whole world's approach to China had changed not so much because of the attitude of the rest of the world to China but because of the attitude of China itself. China is a country that was seeking dialogue with the rest of the world. I clearly recall in my own Party moves being made months ago to try to accommodate Mainland China without throwing down the drain our friends, the people of Taiwan. The Minister, who looks rather flushed - he is probably worried - omitted any reference to a country with a population larger than ours. The Australian Labor Party Government just threw to the wind the people of Taiwan. That is one point of difference between our policy on China and that of the Government. Earlier this year we had the exhibition of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  all describing the leaders of the United States as a pack of murderers. 
The honourable member for Petrie says: 'disgraceful'. That is a mild word. The Labor Party seems to think that by attacking the United States it is adopting a stance of independence which will command the admiration of the entire world and that by attacking the United States we might neutralise some of the suspicions that some countries have about Australia. But the fact of life is that the United States, through thick and thin, has proved to be a good friend and ally of Australia. I am the last one who would stand up in this Parliament and say that in the event of a problem the United States would have come rushing to our aid, but I believe that the friendship of the past gave us greater access to a friendly umbrella than would be available at times such as these when we have in office a party which is fully occupied with endeavouring to insult the  President  of the United States. I am not talking about the man who holds the presidency but about the office of  President  of the United States. I clearly recall earlier this year that  Mr Fred  Brenchley of the 'Australian Financial Review' or some other newspaper came back from the United States and ran an article on the front page saying that the  President  of the United States had refused to see the Australian Prime Minister. I asked a question in this House. An Opposition member is able to ask only one question every 3 weeks. I thought that the issue was so important that I used up one of those opportunities which arise every 3 weeks to ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question. He waved the matter off as if it was just a lot of hogwash from a reporter trying to obtain a new slant. 
-It was one of his non-answers. Subsequently the picture clearly unfolded that the man who holds the office of President of the United States was not really interested in meeting the leader of this bunch of alley cats which sits on the other side of the chamber. If honourable members opposite think that their foreign policy is right and if they think all their other policies are right, why do they not give the Australian people the opportunity to show what they think of what the Government is doing. 
If anything turned me off in the last week it was a photograph which appeared on the front page of the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of that delightful lady,  Her  Majesty the Queen, seated with a bunch of Labor Ministers. Along the top appeared the words: 'All the Queen's Men'. The Queen has gone back to the United Kingdom so I can now say that the truth is that this Labor Party Government, if the opportunity presents itself, will cut Australia's ties with England so quickly that the Queen will not even know that it has happened. How those Ministers had the temerity, the audacity, to sit there being photographed with the Queen is beyond my comprehension. As far as I am concerned, it was a display of hypocrisy. I am not saying that all honourable members opposite are hypocrites. There are only 27 Ministers, so that cuts down the number. Even a photograph of the Leader of the House  (Mr -Daly)  appeared in the Brisbane Courier-Mail'. How I had a fit of the horrors, how I had sad memories of the way he gags debate in this Parliament and hardly gives us a chance to speak. The honourable member for Chisholm made points which related to the change of course that this country had taken since 2 December last. Might I simply conclude by stating that this small nation in the South Pacific, a nation of 13 million people, with a land mass in excess of 3 million square miles, does not have the capacity to stand alone. We can pipe dream about a neutralised world, but until there are other indications that this will become a reality we have to depend on our friends in case there comes a time of turmoil. 
 Earlier this evening, because of my duties with the Committee of Privileges unfortunately I missed the debate on the estimates of the Department of Education. I realise that it is improper in the debate on the adjournment to allude to a debate which has taken place previously today, so that of course I will not do; but I will refer to certain aspects of education, and particularly the Karmel report, the bible of the Labor Party on education. 
The school teacher over there with the smile on his face says: 'Hear, hear'. As he listens to me that smile will disappear. Differences in the arguments have virtually split the educationalists in this country in half. The point I emphasise initially is that the Australian Labor Party, a class-conscious Party- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for your protection from honourable member for Chifley, who represents the north shore of Sydney. One of the things that comes to my mind when I listen to the class-conscious utterances of the Australian Labour Party is that thinking people recognise that in children who are being educated in our society differences in potential arise from biological inheritance, family background and aspirations, influence of school and church and wider influences of the media and society at large. It is appropriate at this stage that I draw to the attention of the Parliament the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education in South Australia in 1969-70 which was chaired by Professor Karmel. I contain the following statement relating to similar experience in Great Britain: 
Limitations of the school system alone for solving the problems of disadvantaged pupils must be recognised. A working party of the Schools' Council of Great Britain, after a study of socially disadvantaged children in Secondary Schools wrote as follows: "The most decisive factor is not the material home background, not the neighbourhood, not the kind of school the child attends- important as these are. It is the attitude of the parents to education, their interest and support of the child in co-operation with the school which matters most. Compensatory education will always be a good second to good housing, and the elimination of poverty, and (above all) to the security and affection in the home.' 
The Karmel report must be discussed at the level of principle and every time the absent Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  alludes to the right of appeal against categorisation - 
I thank you once again for your protection,  Mr Speaker.  I did not hear the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  but apparently 2 great minds in this Parliament have recognised the tremendous value of the extract I have quoted from Professor Karmel's report. I am glad that I was not the only honourable member who read it and thought it had value. Apparently a colleague in this Parliament has seen the value of it. The Minister for Education alludes to the right of appeal. When he tries to defend the mess that he has introduced to the Australian Parliament, he refers to the right of appeal against categorisation. But we should not be directed away from the real principle - the real issue - we are discussing. Clear differentiation must be maintained between grants for recurrent expenses, which should be the right and expectation of parents on behalf of their children on the one hand, and the capital position of needs of schools on the other hand. The categorisation procedure is bad government. It is impractical, incapable of effective application and has created insecurity and inequalities. The point is that the Karmel report as introduced by the Government has placed many of this nation's schools in a situation where they are frightened to plan for tomorrow because they do not know what the Government is planning. 
The ungifted member for Casey says: 'Fewer than 10 per cent'. He is like an alley cat, seeking to separate our society and considers that the per centage he wipes off is worthy of being scratched, torn out and destroyed. He fails to recognise that there is a percentage of schools in Australia which, for decades, has set a standard of education which has been a goal for attainment by other schools. I do not deny that there are some schools in Australia that are more fortunate than others, but I do say that those schools have attained their position in many cases as a result of sacrifice by the parents of pupils. I am the product of a State school system in my early years, a private school system in my intermediate years and of a State college in my later years. I have seen both worlds. I know the sacrifice that my parents made to enable me to attend one of the so-called private schools which the Australian Labor Party Government regards as ducks flying in the sky needing to be shot at and brought to the ground. It does not regard such schools as worthy of consideration. Unfortunately time is limited in this debate. There is much that I should have liked to have said but I conclude on the point that the Australian Labor Party is a party which sets out to try to level out our society - to bring about an equality of society. 
Government supporters - Hear, hear! 
Members opposite repeat 'Hear, hear' like a lot of galahs but by their very approach to the equalisation of society they are destroying the opportunities of those persons whom they are trying to assist most. It has been stated time and time again in this Parliament that if independent schools are closed, the children from those schools will be forced to attend state schools and so state school children will be deprived of better education because of the increased number of children at the state schools. I regret the short time that members have available in which to speak these days. My point is that the Australian Labor Party has done nothing to assist education in Australia. Indirectly and probably unwittingly - I urge members opposite to listen to what members of the Opposition say in this Parliament because they may recognise the folly of their ways - the Government is destroying the opportunity of those persons it is setting out to help. Members of the Liberal Party believe in opportunity for all. We do not class society into groups. Members of the Government do that and I am sorry that a party which parades itself so proudly as being a party which does not care about class is truly a class party. 
No one is more surprised than I that I am on my feet now talking about the Brisbane Airport because I had hoped, from assurances given recently by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones),  that things were under way. We have just heard a speech by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  and I cannot help but think he protesteth too much. I have never seen the document to which he referred so his speech today came as a surprise to me. He presents himself in this Parliament as a champion of the Brisbane Airport - a man whose . interest goes back 3i years prior to his entry to this Parliament. It is an established fact that the honourable member for Lilley was in 1969, when he appeared before the committee to which he alluded, a candidate for the Australian Labor Party. He was simply trying to make cheap capital by indicating an interest in the Brisbane Airport. But until I started a campaign, of a like that has never been witnessed in this Parliament, about last August he remained silent in the Parliament on the subject of the Brisbane Airport. 
I am pleased that for the second occasion we have the presence of the worthy Minister for Civil Aviation in the chamber because he has let pass another one of my speeches without coming into the chamber and endeavouring to counter my claims. The truth is that when the Budget came out this year the Coombs Committee report had recommended that the plans for the future of the Brisbane Airport should be amongst those plans which should be scrapped to enable the Government to channel money in other directions. Night after night I stood in this Parliament and pleaded that the Minister for Civil Aviation should come into the chamber and explain what was happening with the Brisbane Airport. 
Everyone remembers it. After about 2 months the Minister came into the chamber and said that money for the Brisbane Airport was provided in the estimates for the Department of Services and Property. I asked where in those estimates and the Minister said: 'It is there; it is not very easy to see but I can assure you that it is there'. If that money had been initially supplied or appropriated for Brisbane Airport, I wish somebody would explain to me why the Government of today was prepared to accept an editorial published in the Brisbane 'CourierMail' attacking it, and a denouncement by the Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones, who said - I do not have the clipping with me but I remember it well - "I am disappointed'. For 2 months the Labor Government was prepared to stand by and not to fight off my attacks on behalf of the people of Brisbane, the condemnation by the Labor Lord Mayor, the editorial in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' and even the utterances of the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  both of whom showed interest when I commenced my campaign in earnest. 
The honourable member for Lilley said that I had spoken only twice on this matter in 7 years. I will not dispute that, but the facts are that the Brisbane Airport was another which required attention outside as well as inside this House. I remember going to the previous Prime Minister and telling him that as far as 
I was concerned it was time, even if he had to go and pick up a shovel or if he could not do so for the Minister for Civil Aviation to pick up a shovel, to turn the first sod because we were getting sick and tired of waiting for the new airport. 
In past Hansards there are quotes of the present Minister for Civil Aviation stating how poorly Brisbane had been treated. He said these things while he was a back bencher in the Opposition. The Coombs report stated clearly that the previous Government planned to spend $lm this year, $13m next year, $18m the year after and $130m thereafter or the Brisbane Airport. This, in itself, is an admission by a committe which the Labor Government set up that the previous Government - the Libera] Government - at last was on the way. I have never praised the previous Government for the manner in which the Brisbane Airport project was tackled. I believe that the new Government, if it had been allowed to get away with it, would have scrapped plans made by the previous Government for the future of the Brisbane Airport. 
The honourable member for Lilley decries a campaign - I do not know anything about the campaign - but it is an indication that the people of Brisbane are awakening and expressing a willingness to stand up and fight. I do not necessarily agree that the private life of the honourable member for Lilley should be invaded but if those persons who feel strongly about this matter were to ring him his telephone would never stop ringing. Of the 13 unlucky suburbs of Brisbane which contain some 50,000 affected persons, quite a number are in the electorate of Griffith. The poor people in the suburbs of Norman Park, Bulimba, Balmoral and Hawthorne were on the brink of relief when along came the new Government which was prepared to scrap the airport plans and until I mounted a campaign the honourable member for Lilley was strangely silent. Those persons who want to judge the correctness or the fairness of who is responsible for attaining a new airport for Brisbane should read Hansard. They will see that almost every speech made by the honourable member for Lilley followed a speech made by me. I remember those unpleasant evenings when I was subjected to a 2-pronged attack by the honourable member for Bowman and the honourable member for Lilley, in my earnestness to try to get a new Brisbane airport I was subjected to an exploitation of cheap politics. 
All I wanted was for the Minister for Civil Aviation to come into the chamber and explain the situation but for 2 months he did not. He refused. It is a good thing that the people of Brisbane are talcing an interest in this matter. I hope that the Minister, who is in the chamber now, will listen to the honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Bowman and the honourable member for Griffith, regardless of their political guernseys and will realise that with the development of noisy aircraft in recent years the people of Brisbane deserve some relief. 
My friend, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  has asked questions in this House about the siting of another airport whether it would be near Caboolture and where was the appropriation in the estimates for this year? This is a case of where the Government has not put its money, in conformity with its utterances of recent months. The Government came here as a government beating the drum of progress but a scrutiny of the appropriations early in the piece showed that the Brisbane Airport had been given a kiss of death. I can understand the honourable member for Lilley reacting but he has been nothing but a reactor. He has reacted to all my speeches and now he is reacting to a  Mr Langton  who, according to him, is a member of the Liberal Party. I do not know  Mr Langton.  I am not saying he does not exist but 3 cheers to him and 3 cheers to all those people in Brisbane who are at last indicating an interest in their own cause. 
As I have said previously in this Parliament, when the Liberal-Country Party government returns to power after the next election if it acts in the same manner as the present Government has acted towards the people of Brisbane in their desire for a new airport, I will be just as- vociferous and will attack and condemn it just as strongly. This is not a party matter; it is a matter of progress for the people of Brisbane. Just because there are only half a dozen Federal seats in the city of Brisbane its airport does not deserve to be scrubbed off the list of priorities. We have waited long enough. I frankly admit that it has been a wait contributed to by the previous Government but we are sick and tired of waiting and it is time we got back on the road to progress once again. 

 Mr DOYLE (Lilley)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I refer to clause 6 of the Bill, which refers to the constitution of the Trade Practices Commission. The clauses which follow that clause give the Opposition grave concern in that they do not spell out clearly the composition of this Commission. They indulge in generalities and refer only to the fact that the Commission shall consist of a  chairman  and such number of other members as are from time to time appointed in accordance with this Act. I recall only recently the appointment to the Board of Qantas Airways Ltd of the Queensland State  President  of the Australian Labor Party, the highly gifted  Mr Jack  Egerton. Following his appointment he uttered the words: 'It is spoils to the victors'. This gives me concern that the Labor Party, which has already in other areas indicated that it is prepared to prostitute itself and hand out appointments to high positions to its friends, will appoint to this Commission solely people who reflect the views of the Australian Labor Party. The Commission could end up with a pack of socialists running the whole business. 
When one turns further into the Bill to clauses 45 to 50 one recognises the tremendous power this Commission will have, and one recognises the fact that the men who are appointed to the Commission should be men who are highly skilled and highly qualified, not just people whom the Labor Party wants to push up the line or push sideways, but people who have the ability to cope with the provisions of the legislation.  Mr Chairman,  I draw your attention to the fact that in relation to clause 46  Senator Murphy  in his second reading speech referred to a monopolist as being a person who substantially controls a market. The way clause 6 of the Bill has been phrased the Government can appoint any prawn or idiot to a position in which he will make judgment on the words 'substantially' and 'control' - 2 very important words that are not defined in the Bill. Furthermore, clause 47 (1) states: 
A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in the .practice of exclusive dealings if an effect of the corporation engaging in that practice will be or may be substantially to lessen competition - 
I emphasise the words 'may be substantially to lessen competition'. The Minister and the Government have run away from the job of defining so many important issues in the Bill, and yet they expect the Opposition to condone a system whereby it is left up to the Government to decide whom it will appoint to the Commission and the number of people it will appoint. Is it any wonder that we on this side of the chamber are shouting out not just to the business community but also to the whole nation to beware of what the present Government is doing? he honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  made reference in a rather lighthearted manner to the title of the Bill. But people should give a lot of consideration to what this Bill is actually out to do. We heard plaintive pleas from the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  about how this Bill is designed to preserve free enterprise. Yet the Australian Labor Party, which has been sitting on the other side of the chamber as the Government since 2 December last year, is the arch enemy of free enterprise. The comparison was obvious. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is running around the country attacking those- 
I will be coming back to clause 6 of the Bill. The Minister for Social Security has denigrated the private health insurance organisations and claimed that they are inefficient. 
I am just trying to show the importance of the need for a clearer definition of the reference in clause 6 to the Commission. We have this example of how the Labor Party continually denigrates free enterprise; yet today it parades itself as a preserver of free enterprise. I do not believe that clause 6 is good enough. I do not know how supporters of the Government can sit in their places and say 'hear, hear!' and that this is a good Bill. Perhaps they lack the honesty of honourable members on this side of the chamber, who say that they have not had time to be able fully to investigate and be able to investigate the implications of this Bill, that is the only explanation for honourable members opposite saying what they have said with such belief. Anybody who reads this Bill - I will be on my feet a lot between now and tomorrow night discussing it - will recognise that it is more famous for what it does not say than for what it does say. We are creating a sitution in this country where we will be placing in the hands of a commission comprised of people we do not know- 
The Minister for Secondary Industry and the Minister for Supply might be on the Commission. He has been moved sideways once already in the last few weeks. We will be placing in the hands of the Commission the ability to impose fines of up to a quarter of a million dollars on individuals in this country and to gaol people. I do not believe that that is good enough for a Party which claims that it cares about the freedom of the individual. It is not offering much freedom and protection to the individual in this Bill. 
Mir COOKE (Petrie) (10.13)  -  I do not want to speak for very long on these clauses because, like the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I want to say a few words as well on one of the other clauses. But I do want to draw the attention of the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby)  to the drafting of some of the definitions in clause 4. If the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  had seen fit to answer a question that has been on the notice paper since the beginning of the last session as to the authorship of this Bill we might have found out which American lawyer is respon sible for perpetrating these abominations of the English language. 
Earlier tonight the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply castigated the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen! for referring to the laws of Hammurabi. Those laws, of course, dealt with cornering the market, monopolisation and things of that sort. Having castigated the honourable member for Moreton for dealing in ancient history, I invite the Minister to look at the definition of 'services' in clause 4(1)  of this Bill. In paragraph (a) (iii) - I suppose the use of Roman numerals there is somewhat archaic as well - there is reference to the term 'services' including a contract for the conferring of rights or privileges for which remuneration is payable - wait for it - in the form of a tribute. What country has exacted tribute since the day of Hammurabi or some of the Mandarins in Peking? Perhaps we are looking forward to our future relations with other countries in this trade practices field. I invite the Minister to look at that clause. I point out to him that it was a complete grab from an earlier American statute which makes nonsense in the Australian context. I also invite him to look at the definition of document' in the same clause. It includes symbols or perforations having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret them. Does the Minister think that businessmen in Australia in 1973 are going to prepare trade secrets in hieroglyphics. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to reports from the United States of America that business and labour organisations are clamouring to get rid of price control and that even  Mr Edgar  Fielder, chief economist for the United States Treasury Department, among others, has now publicly condemned it as having failed? What are the Prime Minister's feelings on the United States experience? Was the report in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 18 September correct when it claimed that the Prime Minister said that he always had reservations about the value of price controls? Will he now spell out those reservations? 
I am not one who decries an amendment being moved by  a  government or being accepted by a government. I say to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  whom I regard as a nice fellow but a rather poor substitute for the type of person who should be representing the Government during a debate on this Bill, that we on this side of the House pointed out in the earlier stages of the debate other gross errors which have been made, yet the Government has not been prepared to accept the suggestions that we have made when underlining the existing weaknesses. The Bill is ill-conceived. It took the Government 10 months to prepare it after bringing in so-called expert advice from the United States of America. It introduced the Bill and gave us a matter of days to try to work out its ramifications. 
I wish to draw attention to clause 31, subsection (2), which states: 
A person shall not be appointed as a member of the Tribunal other than a presidential member unless he appears to the Governor-General to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce or public administration. 
The point I made last night when I referred to the Trade Practices Commission is that the manner in which this legislation will allow this Government or any future government to appoint persons to these very high positions is a matter of grave concern. It was pointed out that the Commission does not require any qualified person or persons and that the Government, which already has established the practice of appointing friends to high places, could do the same thing with the Commission. Apart from the  Chairman  of the Tribunal the situation again is open for exploitation. We recall the fine words of that learned State  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Jack  Egerton of Queensland, after his appointment to the board of Qantas Airways Ltd. He said that it was spoils to the victors. In my view, responsible government entails more than just handing out spoils to the victors. It is a case of selecting the most highly qualified persons available and putting them in these highly responsible positions. 
This Bill has so many clauses where discretion has to be applied that it is worrying. I again draw attention to clauses 45, 46, 47, 49 and 50. The terms of this Bill are so wide that it will take someone a little short of a genius to apply a proper interpretation to those clauses. My fear is that the bias of the types of persons who will be appointed by the Australian Labor Party is such that there will be so many companies in court in the next few years that the courts will be clogged. We are creating a situation where businessmen will not be game to move one way or the other because they will not know for certain whether or not they will be breaking the law. This situation is not good enough, when we consider that the legislation provides for penalties of up to $250,000 and even gaol terms. It is far from good enough. 

 - Mr friend, the honourable member for Moreton says: 'Hear, hear!' He is far more qualified than I and the Minister at the table, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  to pass judgment on the justice of this because he is qualified in that regard. But, speaking as a layman, it gives me concern. I do not understand why the Government refuses to define these matters more clearly, unless it is that there is something sinister and evil behind its intentions. Unfortunately the Minister representing the Attorney-General is not even with us to try to explain what the Government has in mind. 
It is exactly 23 minutes to 5. I draw the attention of the Parliament and of the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to the fact that we are still talking about clause 50. There are 169 clauses in the Bill yet we have been given some 200 minutes to discuss the Bill. I regard this as a disgraceful exercise of the most ruthless bulldozing I have seen in a long time. The Government has given us no time to discuss such an important and far reaching Bill as this. 
Quickly I pass to some other points. The aspect of monopoly has been discussed at length. I would like to turn quickly to clause 47 sub-clause (1) and again underline the lack of definition that pertains in this Bill. That sub-clause states. 
A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in the practice of exclusive dealing if an effect of the corporation engaging in that practice will be or may be substantially to lessen competition- 
I foresee the day in the not too distant future when the courts of Australia will be clogged with people trying to get definitions and explanations on whether they have done the right thing. 
I turn to clause 50, which deals with mergers. This is a beauty. Clause 50 sub-clause (1) states: 
A corporation shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares in the capital, or any assets, of a body corporate where an effect of the acquisition will be or may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to result in the corporation being in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services. 
We know that sub-clause (9) of clause 90 enables the Government to ensure that a merger is permissible if in the Government's view there are special considerations which conform to the interests of the national economic policy. What a lot of fine words. But who the devil will know what in the mind of the Government, particularly if it is an Australian Labor Party Government, are considerations which will conform to the interests of the national economic policy? 
With 5 minutes of the debate on this Bill remaining it is unfair of me to hold the floor any longer, but I would like to record my protest at the manner in which this Bill has been rushed through the Parliament with so little discussion. The debate has been totally inadequate. It is a terribly important Bill, yet with 5 minutes of the debate to go we are only a short way through the Committee's considerations. I hope that my friend from Western Australia, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  who is to follow me also chastises the Government. 
Before I speak on the main subject of my address, I should like to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Balaarat  (Mr Erwin)  that the policies of the present Government are designed to turn people away from wanting to own their own homes, because the Australian Labor Party has said time and time again that home ownership is an indication of capitalism. I think it was one of the Labor Ministers in the 1940s who accused the then Chifley Government of turning Australia into a nation of capitalists. However, I shall pass from that subject. 
I am glad to see in the Parliament the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is responsible for electoral matters, because I want to outline something which has concerned me since I first entered this Parliament, and, regrettably, about which nothing was properly done during the time of my own Party's administration of the country. During that time endeavours were made to alter the electoral system but we never achieved this. If the Minister is as concerned about the manner in which democracy works as he appears to be in his utterances in this Parliament, I believe that his approach to the matter I now raise will be the test. I refer to the question of postal voting in Australia. 
 The honourable member for Bowman interjects that I would know about rorts. The facts are that when I came here in 1966 I just scraped in because I received one-third of the postal votes in my electorate. I made up my mind then and there to learn about the system of postal voting so that the ALP would not exploit the system in the following election as it had in the year I managed to win. The honourable member for Bowman is known in Queensland as one of the greatest exploiters of the postal voting system who has ever walked the State. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. I suggest also that the honourable member for Bowman cease interjecting. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  If the honourable member for Bowman cared to go through the Hansard reports since just after I arrived here in 1966 he would find repeated pleas from myself to the Government of the day to alter the postal voting system in the name of fairness and in the name of democracy. May I recount very briefly for the Minister the manner in which postal votes are exploited and then put to him a system which I believe would be most satisfactory in the interests of all? 
The manner in which the Minister tried earner this year to put his electoral Bills through would indicate to the contrary. It indicates that the man who possesses the greatest expertise in exploitation and gerrymander is the Minister for Services and Property. But these interjections are taking up the time I have in which to deal with a very important subject. At the present time the postal voting system allows of exploitation by the various political parties. I do not suggest for a moment that the Labour Party is alone in this exploitation. All political parties engage in it. I believe with conviction that the exploitation of postal voting is such that it could prevent a party going out of office and ensure a party coming into power, depending upon which party is on its feet and is more agile in whizzing around and obtaining these votes. Under the present system legislation requires all persons over 18 years of age to vote. Unless they are almost beyond living this is a compulsion which applies to all over 18 years of age. 
If we look at the Australian figures we see that in 1966 there were well over 100,000 postal votes. In fact there were approximately 150,000 postal votes. Possibly the number has now grown to nearly 250,000. What happens in each electorate? On the day it becomes lawful to do so, the various political parties visit the homes of the aged, sick and infirm persons with application forms and say: 'Dear, here you are. Here is an application form. Sign on the dotted line and leave it to us.' That is where the skulduggery begins. The political parties then gather together all the postal vote application forms and work their organisation in such manner. Let me say that I have never done this but I have seen it done by others. 
I deny that completely. My organisation has never done it. It was the Australian Labor Party that drew my attention to what goes on. The honourable member should lift his mind out of the gutter and recognise that I am trying to make a contribution for the betterment of all men. Let me return to what I was saying. The political parties then feed into the electoral office of the division concerned a bundle of postal votes in the morning of a particular day. They know that they will be processed that day. The last thing they have said to the person from whom they collected the application form was: 'Do not do anything until we get back.' They know that the electoral officer will post those forms that evening. So next morning they have their organisation ready, willing and able virtually to follow the postman around. When the ballot papers are delivered they make a visit and say: Well, here I am again.' The elderly, sick or infirm person says: 'What a coincidence; I have just received my ballot paper.' Then the representative from the organisation says: 'Well listen, dear. Give it to me. I will help you fill it out.' No fair minded person in this Parliament could possibly condone that practice. 
I suggest for the consideration of the Minister the implementation of the following practice: Considering that the Commonwealth requires people to vote, I believe that the Government has a responsibility to make it possible for those people who are confined to bed or who are too old or ill to go to a polling booth to have easy access to a postal vote. The present system enables the electoral officer of each division to mark against the name in his master roll the name of a particular person who previously had a postal vote on the ground of being aged or infirm. We should forget about the women who are pregnant and cannot go to the polling booth. We should forget about some of the others who are able to look after themselves. These aged and sick persons are the ones for whom we should be caring. When an election or a referendum, such as we have on the horizon now, comes around I believe it is the duty of the Commonwealth Electoral Office to send to those persons with as much detail as possible already completed, an application form and an accompanying note reminding them that it is their responsibility to read carefully the terms of qualification to establish in their own minds whether they qualify. This means that an elderly person would be helped significantly. 
More importantly, it would take the responsibility out of the hands of the political parties. I do not trust them whether they be members of the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the Australian 'Labor Party, the Democratic Labor Party or the Communist Party; when it comes to obtaining votes all parties are the same. They are all out to get what they can. If we adopted this procedure and made it the responsibility of the Electoral Office, we would he able to kill the malpractices which presently occur. It has always amazed me that when I came into this Parliament in 1966 I had to be the first to draw the attention of the Parliament to the fact that these malpractices occurred. Nobody else's conscience had been pricked. I think that the way the system works is a sad indictment of honourable members who up until recent years accepted these bad things. This practice has been condoned and allowed to continue. 
I hope that the Minister for Services and Property will recognise the truth of what I have said - that it is up to the Government of the day, the Parliament or the electoral officer to provide this service to the aged, the sick and the needy and to take the matter out of the hands of the political parties because they are the ones who are presently exploiting what is surely meant to be a democratic process. I would hate to think that when my Party is returned to power it won power by the exploitation of a voting system. Furthermore, I have never wanted 80 per cent of the postal votes. As long as I gain my fair share of about half I reckon I am doing all right. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Briefly I should like to answer some of the accusations which, unfortunately, have been made by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  In the past few minutes he has made a speech which, unfortunately, has dragged the contribution I made to the debate down to gutter level. I listened quietly to his accusations. I recall very clearly how in 1969 a man, who later became Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party and is now  the member for Lytton in the Queensland Parliament,  Mr Tom  Burns, tried 3 weeks before the election of that year to make a big issue of the claim that I was engaging in illegal practices. It was proven then that I was not and have never been so' engaged. I am prepared to swear to that on the biggest stack of Bibles the honourable member for Bowman possesses. 
Sit down you fool. 
I will read the letter. The point I am making is that there is nothing illegal about what I have done. I am not to be condemned if I have been smart enough to take advantage of leeway which was left open to me because of the Labor Party's exploitation system in the area, as long as I am working within the framework of the law. I have never purported to be anything that I am not. I have never at any time done anything illegal in relation to postal votes. I can live with myself in relation to this matter. Members of the Labor Party have on a couple of occasions tried to make accusations to the contrary, but they have always come off the loser. In 1969 a Labor alderman, after the Labor Party had tried to bring up the point that the honourable member for Bowman made, said to me: 'That little effort was worth 500 votes to you. They are stupid. They should keep their mouths shut because you are not doing anything wrong*. All I am asking is that we do something. Now that the subject of politics has been raised, I remember how during the 1966 election campaign a Labor alderman ran one of my workers off the road in a car at Stones Corner. He forced the car into a park. He was a big man. He came up to my worker- 
Like a thug. That is the word. He came up to him and said 'Give me that postal vote form. I want your name. I am going to report you'. The poor blighter did not know if he was doing wrong. That is the way in which the Labor Party carries on. 
The honourable member for Angas said it uses strong arm tactics. He is correct. It is time all right. It is time something was done about this matter. It is time we recognised that all political parties are guilty of malpractices and not just one party. The tragedy is that the system has lent itself to the type of exploitation to which I have referred. When a system is as bad as this one it is about time we did something about it. For my own record in this respect honourable members opposite need only read Hansard. They will find that I have made dozens of speeches and asked dozens of questions in the House on this matter since the first occasion on which I raised it  -  28 September 1967  -  in an endeavour to get the system changed to a more honest one. 
It is appropriate at this moment to recall words spoken in this Parliament by the late Eddie Ward, who was an avowed socialist. He once said: 'If you pluck the feathers from the duck they can never put them back again'. In short, he was saying that one day his Party would come to power and would do so much so quickly that even if it lost the next election it would leave the country in such a state that it would be difficult for the returning Liberal-Country Party coalition to restore the damage. We have heard a very emotional address by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate. The words he uttered, along with the words tonight of many other supporters of the Government, have simply been a precis of the utterances of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  I am highly suspicious that all of these prepared speeches have been written by the staff of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  because hardly an original thought has come out in this place tonight. We have heard an emotive claim that the management of the medical health funds has been running around the world on contributors money. 
You go back to building Aboriginal hostels. You even got sacked from doing that, so leave me alone. Claims have been made that these people have been running around the world on contributors funds and that they have been spending money campaigning against the proposed national health scheme. The honourable member for La Trobe at least has the decency to nod his head like a cockatoo in agreement. I clearly recall some time ago - it could have been as far back as 1968 - the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  directing a question to the then Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  asking for an assurance from the then Government that the health funds would not be allowed to spend contributors money for the purpose of propaganda. 
At that time, the then Liberal Minister for Health gave an assurance to the Parliament and to the people of Australia that the Liberal-Country Party Government would ensure that this was not done. So much foi all the garbage that has come from the Government ranks this afternoon and this evening. 
As a Queenslander, I have been a little concerned about the proposed health scheme. Government supporters have been particularly silent on the manner in which the proposed health scheme - a scheme that has been conceived in the womb of the Minister for Social Security, a fellow Queenslander - will affect the people of Queensland. They have been very silent on this point. Might I relate, for the benefit of Government supporters, how the people of the State of Queensland will be affected by the scheme. I know that honourable members opposite think that anyone north of the New South Wales border does not matter. They think that, because there are only 18 Federal seats in Queensland and that whatever happens in Queensland is not going to affect them very much, they do not have to worry about Queensland; they can forget about Queenslanders. The Government has a hide to impose -its scheme upon the people of Queensland. Day after day the Minister for Social Security bleats in this House about how Queensland is going to benefit by the provision of another $3 5m a year - a wonderful thing! But when the Government imposes an added tax on the people of that State, sure the State Government or the Commonwealth Government will receive some extra benefit, but from whose pocket will this extra money come? Do not parade yourself in here as a generous being,  Mr Minister.  You are probably taking from the people of Queensland more than the additional provision of $35m a year which you have promised them. 
Let me relate for the information of those honourable members from the deep south the way in which we work in Queensland. To the great credit of earlier State Labour governments, they introduced a scheme whereby Queenslanders forever would be granted free hospitalisation in the event of their becoming sick. When the Country-Liberal Party coalition came to power in that State in 1957 there were dire warnings from the outgoing Labour Government that this scheme would be abolished. But 1957 is a long time back and this health scheme is still in fashion in Queensland. I know that the Minister says: 
Oh, it is a dilapidated scheme. It is not worth a razoo. They need an injection of $35m', as if $35m were some magic amount which was going to cure all ills. Every scheme under government control, whether it be education, health or a host of other things, is open for improvement, and it becomes a question of examination and acceptance of a particular standard. But now, if the people of Queensland do not wish to belong to a health fund, they do not have to contribute. This Government offers nothing. It just says: 'We are going to take 1.35 per cent out of your pay, whether you like it or not'. 
The Minister for Social Security says that four out of five people are going to be better off than they were before. I do not believe him. I know that, as a Queenslander he is not prone to untruths, but I wonder who has concocted those figures. The Minister has never come out and explained how he has arrived at this magical figure of four out of five people. If people in Queensland want to belong to a health fund, they can do so. If they go into a public hospital, they can utilise their medical benefit fund as an extra insurance against loss of wages or any other losses they might sustain through their hospitalisation. They can use intermediate and private hospitalisation. But the Government is giving the people of Queensland no choice. It is imposing upon us some grandiose scheme which we have got to like or lump. Furthermore, the Minister referred to the fact that wealthy benefit under the present system and that is a scheme which works against the poor. I do not think that those on the Government side who have heard me speak in this House would have gained the idea that I am a champion of big business or the wealthy people, because I am not. I recognise that the poor in our society need assistance. The true meaning of liberalism is a system whereby we allow those with initiative and drive to move along and, in turn, this helps those who are more needy and lifts them up also. The fact is that those who presently gain some tax benefit from their medical benefit fund contributions are surely those who are already paying by far the greater amount in their initial contribution to the coffers of the nation. A person who is earning $400 a week may be paying to the Government 70c in the $1 for the last couple of hundred dollars, and receiving only 30c in the $1 himself. The Government advances this emotive question and justifies its actions by saying: 'Well, the present scheme works against the poor'. 
Be quiet and listen. You have not learned in the past, so listen a bit more. I admit that the previous scheme had its weaknesses in that some sections of our society were not insured, whether it be through ignorance or whether the means test imposed by the previous Government, whereby we had 3 categories of persons who would receive different scales of contributions from the Government to help them did not work. I do not know. But just because we had only 85 per cent of Australians covered under our scheme  -  I notice that the Minister includes Aboriginals in the far west- 
-It was 96.4 per cent. This 85 per cent figure is open to question. Just because there was not a 100 per cent coverage, it does not mean that the Minister for Social Security has any justification for tipping the system upside down and trying to introduce a socialist approach. Unfortunately, the light is on indicating that my time on this occasion has nearly expired. The proposed Australian health insurance scheme is just the end of a socialist dream and I am quite sure- 
Yes, totalitarianism. The references to Canada and Britain are not good enough in this country. Australia is an individual country. We are an individual people. As a Queenslander, I reiterate that I come from an individual State where you are allowed to do as you wish with health care. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I shall make my remarks very brief in accordance with the undertaking I have given to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table. I have already spoken of the manner in which the Government's health scheme will affect the people of Queensland. But these comments I wish to direct towards the efforts of a  Mrs Doreen  Farrar of Heidelberg Street, East Brisbane, a constituent of mine, who, like a great number of Queenslanders, has been very disturbed at the Government's proposals in relation to its health scheme. This woman, without being paid or asked, and not being associated with the Liberal Party, the Australian Medical Association or any particular doctor, has probably created a national record in that up till last weekend she had personally collected 7,554 signatures against the Government's health proposals. The use of petitions is a democratic right of any citizen, but I should like to pay tribute to her for the manner in which she has gone out and worked so hard for something in which she believes. I hope that these petitions have not simply fallen on deaf ears as far as the Government is concerned. I thank the Minister for allowing me to mention this woman in my speech. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to. 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
On 27 September 1973 during the debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill I drew the attention of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to the fact that the change that the Post Office had made in the maximum weight of a letter which may be posted at the ordinary rate would be a tremendous imposition on the 
Australian people who, in their customary habit, send greetings via Christmas cards. At that time the Postmaster-General retaliated by saying, as reported at page 1691 of Hansard of 27 September: 
The industry was advised as far back as last May of the metric weight allowance for Christmas cards; 
He uttered these words together with a few others in answer to my statement that night. On reflection this would indicate that the Postmaster-General and his Department had given the Christmas card printing industry a forewarning of the provisions of the Budget. Yet the Government prides itself on the manner in which it kept secret the contents of the Budget. I would like the Minister to elaborate at some stage this evening why his Department, some 5 months after his Government came to power and some 3 months before the Budget was brought down, told Christmas card manufacturers that they had to make changes because his Department would change the allowable weight. 
The Minister has just interjected and said that the changes were made in the previous year. I will pick that one up. Why on earth did the Minister issue a Press release a few weeks ago stating to the people of Australia that suddenly he had changed his mind and that if Christmas cards weighed a little more than 20 grams they would be allowed through at the lower rate? These are some of the things we would like to have clarified, because it seems that there is a degree of inconsistency at the present time. I notice my friends in the Country Party agreeing with me. 
There are a number of other questions I would like to raise tonight. This is the first Estimates debate that the Minister has had to face in this Parliament as PostmasterGeneral. These are the questions I ask: Firstly, why is it that it costs 21 cents in United States currency, which is equivalent to 15c in Australian currency to send a letter weighing  i  oz from the United States to Australia when it costs us in our currency from 30c to 35c to send a letter to the United States? 
-It is all wrong. I believe that there is a system working between the Postmaster-General's Department - I am not necessarily saying that the 
Postmaster-General is responsible - and Qantas Airways 'Ltd to ensure that the letter writer in Australia is subsidising Qantas for carrying mail between Australia and, say, the United States and England. The Postmaster-General's predecessor explained in this Parliament or to me privately once that because of the amount of mail that was coming out of the United States it was a lot cheaper for people in that country to send letters overseas. But I do not believe that that is so because the freight rate per lb or kilo, or whatever weight one wants to apply these days, should be the same regardless of the quantity. The freight rate is not cheaper if more letters are sent. This is a point which I would like the Postmaster-General to explain later on. I recall sitting here for 6 years during which the Labor Opposition cried for a royal commission into the inefficiency of the Post Office. 
My friend from Balaclava says that that is right. He was here at the same time. When the Labor Government came to power it carried out its promise and set up a royal commission into the Post Office. But before the royal commission has made its findings the Government has introduced increased postal charges. Up go the charges without the Government even examining the causes of increased costs in the Post Office. Furthermore I recall how the Labor Party, when in opposition, cried that it was time we separated the postal functions from the telecommunications section of the Post Office and how these 2 inefficient organisations had to be broken up. Furthermore we heard that it was high time that the PostmasterGeneral's Department ceased paying interest to the Treasury on capital. Yet a whole year has passed since the Labor Party gained power, and the Postmaster-General has complained about the fact that his Department has had to pay $179m in interest to the Treasury. Nothing has been done. No changes have been made. Everything is exactly the same. 
I found it amusing to listen to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  this evening defending the Post Office mail exchange at Redfern, when for years the Labor opposition decried the inefficient manner in which the previous Government had run that section of the Post Office. Tonight the boot is on the other foot. Honourable members on the Government side are defending this section of the Post Office in anticipation, but we on the 
Opposition side, with vision and wisdom, have remained silent, because we know what is the Government's problem. When in Opposition, honourable members opposite indulged in cheap criticism. I look at the PostmasterGeneral at the table. I like him. 
Yes, he is a good-looking fellow, and I genuinely like him as a person, but the manner in which he is running his Department reminds me of a young boy with his first stamp collection. The greater the face value marked on the stamp the better the collection he thinks he has, but no one has yet told him that when the stamps are splashed needlessly with ink the real value of the collection drops. Since he has taken over the Department the smudge on the stamps has spread, and so has the cost of making any collection grown. He forgets that the more he needlessly increases the cost of postage the more people become reluctant to use his system. 
The Minister says that I should look at my Government. If he turns to the Hansard record of the debate on the Estimates in 1970 he will find that when I sat on the other side of the chamber I said to his predecessor that no longer could he count on my vote for an increase in postal charges without my previously carefully and scrupulously investigating the reasons for the increase. I believed then that the Post Office had become a cumbersome, ineffectual, expensive, burdensome machine. It is time that the. Postmaster-General started to look at these costs. If the costs are increased people will become more reluctant to use the Post Office. Just as mass production makes the cost of manufacture cheaper, so the initial cost falls when people use the Post Office more. The more letters that are posted the more the initial cost of handling letters should fall. But this is not happening. The Government has resorted to increasing the costs, and this has turned many people away. 
In conclusion let me say to the PostmasterGeneral that he perpetrated one of the greatest tricks I have seen in this Parliament in 7 years. He refused to increase the initial cost of 7c for posting a letter but he cut the weight from 28 grams to 20 grams under the guise of metric conversion. Then he made the cost of the next 20 grams 8c. If I go to a shop to buy 2 apples and I am told that one apple costs 7c and if I want to buy 2 apples I will have to pay 15c, I will quickly tell the shopkeeper what to do with his apples. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I should like to commence by congratulating the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  It has been very rare for me to offer congratulations to a Minister of the Labor Government this year. The Minister administers only a minor portfolio, but I believe he has had his heart in his job. I refer particularly to the sporting and recreation side of his portfolio. I should like to place on. record my appreciation of the action of this Labor Government - it creates a lump in my throat to say it, but it is well deserved - in providing Sim in the Budget for assistance to national amateur sporting associations. Members of the House know that this money is being put forward for the purpose of a fair subsidy for bona fide Australian amateur sportsmen, sportswomen and officials attending national and international events, for assistance with travel costs for overseas sportsmen, sportswomen and coaches who visit Australia on approved tours and for grants towards administrative costs of world championships held in Australia. 
I believe that the provision of this money is good because I recall, as the National  President  of the Federation of Australian Karate Organisations, attending the world championships of karate in Japan 3 years ago. The battle we as members of that team had to go through to raise the air fares was something which had to be experienced to be understood. One felt a sense of shame on arrival in Japan to see the teams from some 41 other countries participating in the championships. There were we, decked out in suits and sports coats facing representatives from the other countries who were dressed up in their national uniforms or in sports coats which had been provided by their country of origin. It has seemed that previously if one did represent Australia overseas the attitude was: 'Do not tell us about it'. If one won fame and glory, the rest of the nation would share in that glory, but that was about the full extent of people's interest. But we have a breakthrough, and I am quite sure that when a Liberal government is returned it will not go back on the initiative which has been commenced by this present Government. I am sincere in my congratulations for what it has done. 
I have been reminded that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  is shortly to make his maiden speech and I have been asked to make my comments short. I shall endeavour to do that but it is a pity because this portfolio, though a minor one, is still an important one. Tourism, or the tourist industry, employs some 10 per cent of the Australian work force, and an industry which, either directly or indirectly, employs 10 per cent of our work force is an important one. But what I fail to see is why government after government, including this new Government, is incapable of putting into practice the fine recommendations that have come from the various organisations which have from time to time brought forward reports and advised them. It is a deplorable situation when the total overseas income from this source is still only $139m. The little island of Jamaica in the Caribbean earns as much as that from tourism. My figures may be incorrect but they will not be too far out. If my memory is correct, Mexico earns $3 billion a year from tourism. 
-It earns $3 billion a year. That is a lot more than our $139m. What government after government fails to see is that if we want to come near that figure we have to make it attractive for overseas visitors to come to Australia. In the report that the Minister introduced into the Parliament - it is a considerable report and a lengthy one - he directed attention to the need for internal air fares in Australia to drop so that we can encourage people coming from overseas to get away from Sydney, to look at the outback and to travel north, south and west. We have these recommendations during the debate on these estimates, but a few days ago when we dealt with the estimate for the Department of Civil Aviation, we saw that the Government has introduced increased air charges which has the effect of destroying the market in this country. It is a backward step. I know that the Minister, who is unable to criticise publicly this very fact, must himself see the destructive element in the Budget as it affects his portfolio. Australians are not great travellers. They travel overseas before they see their own country. It is terribly important that some of the recommendations in this report become a reality and not just a continuing pipe dream. They have been a dream for a long time and it is time that somebody did something about them. 
In accord with my undertaking, I will conclude, but I do remind the Committee that the Liberal Government actually doubled the number of tourists coming to Australia in the past 5 years. If this rate continues, we can look forward to one million overseas people coming to Australia in the year 1978. It should be more than that if we get off our seats and go out for it. It is terribly important that if we are going to develop this country as an attraction to overseas visitors we develop our facilities. Much as the hotels in Australia might parade themselves as being 4-star hotels etc., the accommodation in this country is, by overseas standards, not very high. To enable a higher standard to be achieved, we must recognise that this is an important industry and make cheaper money available to the industry so that it can build better class accommodation. I conclude with those few remarks. I regret that an important subject is to receive the guillotine treatment or something of that sort tonight, because I am sure the Minister would benefit if he were to be given the advantage of hearing the views of many members of this Parliament. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that racial ill-will is becoming increasingly evident in our society and that this has been caused by financial discrimination in favour of our Aboriginal people? Does the Minister agree that we must con,tinue to discriminate in favour in many cases? Does he understand however, that some Aboriginal people who qualify for and receive special financial assistance are most definitely not in need of this 'assistance and that this is destroying their self-dependency and is creating understandable tensions in the poorer non-Aboriginal community? Will he consider a complete review of the present practice of making grants to anyone who claims to be Aboriginal and devise a system which will ensure that money is spent only where it will be beneficial, and thus command the endorsement of the entire nation? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
The Minister has just threatened me, and I am quite certain that he means it; so on this occasion I shall not refer to Brisbane Airport and I shall make my comments brief. I support the comments of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who put forward a case on behalf of the operators of small aircraft. I suggest that these increased charges might well send some small operators to the wall. For instance, I refer specifically and without request to the Stradbroke Gardens Air Service, which runs a service between the Eagle Farm Airport in Brisbane and Dunwich on Stradbroke Island. The fact that this service operates from Eagle Farm Airport suggests that it will not qualify for the 33  i  per cent rebate. This service is meeting a requirement of the tourist industry. I believe that the tourist industry is an area in respect of which the Government has failed to use vision. 
The increased charges that are to be imposed on aviation will retard the advancement of tourism in this country. Time and time again the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and his advisers have emphasised that one of the matters holding back the advancement of tourism in Australia is that travelling costs in this country are so expensive. As I mentioned a few days ago in this Parliament, Australia now earns $139m of overseas currency through tourism. If my memory serves me correctly, the number of tourists who came to Australia last year was 428,000. I know that there is a system whereby an overseas visitor to this country who travels more than 1,000 miles is allowed a 30 per cent rebate on internal fares. However, the proposed increased charges will wipe out that rebate. 
The Government correctly points out that there is a deficiency of some $6 8m in aviation, but it is being shortsighted in not recognising that an increase in the number of tourists coming from overseas to Australia would help to offset that loss. It is remarkable to see the trend of the losses incurred in aviation. No doubt in recent months inflation has increased that figure of $68m. If another year were to pass without an increase in charges, perhaps that figure would grow to $80m. The Government has a responsibility to recognise that when it proposes to increase charges in the airline industry other industries are involved. 
Many overseas countries earn in foreign currency approximately one-third of Australia's annual Budget. Australia is located remotely in the South Pacific and that is a disadvantage in the promotion of tourism here. People must pay a lot of money in fares to get here. I hope that, in return for my not mentioning the Brisbane Airport, the Minister will recognise that his colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, though remaining silent today, is greatly concerned at the effect these increases will have upon the important tourist industry. 
I am very pleased that the member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has entered the chamber. Just before the sitting was suspended for lunch and immediately after the resumption of the sitting he made a rather vicious attack on the Queensland Government. I wish to take the opportunity in a few words to put the record straight. He referred to the fact that the Queensland Government charges 5c a ton on some of the minerals taken from the ground in that State. He speaks almost as if he is ashamed to be a Queenslander, but it is appropriate to remind him whence he comes to this chamber. I remind the honourable member for Bowman and other honourable members of the record of an Australian Labor Party State Government. When the Australian Labor Party was in power in Queensland it charged a royalty on coal of exactly 6d a ton for the first million tons, 3d a ton for the second million tons and Id a ton thereafter, no matter how many millions or billions of tons were taken out of the ground in Queensland. It also had a system whereby it charged those persons leasing the area for mining one lousy shilling an acre. 
Because I am eating into the normal adjournment debate time I shall make my remarks short, but I remind the honourable member for Bowman of the things he omitted to say. He omitted to tell the Parliament today that in Queensland the railway lines which have to be put into the areas to be mined must be financed by the mining companies. They are paid for in toto by the mining companies. Furthermore, the moment they are completed, the mining- 
Often the contributions by the honourable member for Bowman are of the type that would be made in the Queensland Parliament. Perhaps after the next election he will be out looking for a seat in the State Parliament, because he certainly will not continue as a member here. As I was saying, these railway lines must be handed over to the Queensland Government; the lines then become owned by the State Government, and the State Government charges the mining companies for using those lines for carrying freight. Last year the Queensland Government made $17m on freight charges alone. The honourable member for Bowman referred also to Weipa and the bauxite deposits in that area. The fact is that the people who have developed Weipa had to dredge a port there and build port facilities. This has happened in many other places in Queensland. The mining companies have had to outlay their finance to develop the State. My case rests there, but I remind all members on the Government side, particularly the honourable member for Bowman, that an Australian Labor Party Minister in Western Australia is reported in today's paper as referring to Canberra madness and as standing by the utterances of the Queensland Premier,  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay is another who will be lucky to hold his seat after the next election, likewise the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  who has a grimace on his face. No wonder the gallup polls show that the Australian Labor Party has the support of only 36 per cent of the Queensland people. I conclude by reminding honourable members opposite that an Australian Labor Party Minister from Western Australia has said that the Government is gripped by madness if it thinks that by kicking foreign capital in the belly continually it is helping the people of Australia or Western Australia or Queensland. 
I just say: Wake up to yourself. Go and do a little bit of reading and get an understanding of what is going on and what you are doing in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
by leave - The only point I would like to make in regard to the comments by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is that when the Joint Committee on Prices is carrying out its investigations in January it might look into the reason why there are at present so many commodities in short supply in Australia. People have been constantly ringing my office in Brisbane complaining that things which were available 12 months ago are no longer available. Last Friday when I went into a clothing manufacturing shop in Brisbane I was told that singlets and underclothes are almost unprocurable. People have been ringing my office and saying that they can no longer get blades for Victa motor mowers and a host of other things. I would hope that in its investigations this Committee will take into account that this nation has become a nation in which many items which were previously readily available are no longer available. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Are married women to be discharged from the Citizen's Military Forces. 
Are women members of the CMF to be denied re-enlistment. 
If the position is as stated, is this course being taken in an endeavour to further cut defence expenditure. 
Is the Navy restricting sea-time of naval vessels in an endeavour to meet the restrictions imposed by the Government in the 1973-74 Budget. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the claim by the Minister for Labour some days ago that members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association had consumed 'several hundred dozen' bottles of beer prior to and during his address to that body in Adelaide? Is he aware that several hundred dozen' means at least 4,800 bottles of beer or at least 24,960 5 oz glasses - an average of 83 glasses of beer per head? 
If the allegation is correct, is the Prime Minister's faith in the ability of his officers to work satisfactorily the following day shattered by the revelation, and has he ascertained the number of officers who were absent next day or the performance of those who arrived at work? 
I will make my comments brief because the longer honourable members speak at this stage the less time there will be for the debate on the Health Insurance Bill. I recall very clearly the utterances of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and his hollow threats of a few weeks back when he promised us turkey in the chamber on Christmas Day. Yet we have the situation where the program of legislation for the next 2 days is such that honourable members have come from Darwin, Alice Springs, Cairns, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide - the far flung areas of the continent - and will be here for only 2 days so that the Minister can get back to sweet Sydney on Thursday to go and do his Christmas shopping. So much for his threats. So much for ali the threats of the Government over the last few months. 
As a Queenslander I would like formally to lodge my protest at the manner in which the discussion on the Health Insurance Bill has been curtailed. I was led to believe that if I played my part and withdrew from speaking on the Bill there would be plenty of time left in the Committee stage. But I see that the Committee stage will now run from 5 p.m. to 5.15 p.m. 
That is right. The scheme will impose a tax of 1.35 per cent on all Queenslanders, which means in effect that Queenslanders will have to pay - on the figures I obtained from the Taxation Office - an extra S3 5m a year. This generous Government is going to give Queensland another $35m, but it is robbing the people in order to give the money to the State Government. It is doing absolutely nothing for the people of Queensland in its health scheme, and as far as I am concerned- 
In speaking to the Health Insurance Commission Bill one speaks to a Bill which is described as one of a sextet produced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  - 2 being produced recently and 4 to be presented next year. Therefore the debate which has just concluded on the Health Insurance Bill had a large bearing on this Bill. The Opposition opposes this Bill because it is but an extension of the Bill upon which we have Just voted. Referring to the Health Insurance Bill - and I hope that in doing so I am not transgressing the procedures of the House - I would like the fact noted that the honourable members for Lilley  (Mr Doyle),  Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham- 
I think I heard the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  suggest that there was no real change in the time for the adjournment debate. Is that correct? 
Would not this mean a loss of 15 minutes a week in view of the time that was previously available? 
Previously the adjournment motion was put at 10.45 on Tuesday night and 10.15 on the other 2 nights with the finishing time at 1 1 p.m. Here we have disguised thinly but surely another attack on the rights of private members of this Parliament. The Leader of the House parades as a paragon of virtue and the upholder of democracy but as has been said before and will be said again, during his time as Leader of this House democracy is continually raped. Here we have once again the whittling away of the rights of private members. We had a ruling this morning by you,  Mr Speaker,  whereby personal explanations have to be made after the presentation of papers. This is another erosion of the rights of the private member. As far as I am concerned, the people of Australia do not elect Ministers, they elect representatives and that was an incursion into the rights of the individual members. The Leader of the House is taking away another 15 minutes of the time available for the adjournment debate. This is a terribly important time. It is when members of this Parliament, who are continually being subjected to the rigours and the firm-handed approach that the Minister has in regard to guillotining and gagging legislation, have the only opportunity to stand up and present their cases. This is also being whittled away. I call on all private members, including those on the Government side, to join with those on this side of the House when we oppose this move. Let the Minister stand alone. Give him time to reflect upon the action that he is taking. 
This is the first occasion in 1974 on which I have spoken in an adjournment debate. Only a few weeks ago my attention was drawn to the fact that the number of occasions on which I spoke during 1973 was more than 4 times the number of times I spoke in 1971 and 1972; but the fact is that there has been more to complain about this year and last year than in previous years. The Postmaster-General  (Mr 
Lionel Bowen) is not presently in the House, but I am sure he will arrive shortly as tonight I shall attack his Department. I draw the attention of this House to the continued lousiness and meanness displayed by the present Federal Labor Government. I draw particular attention to the fact that this Government has taken from Australian charitable organisations the concession they previously enjoyed in respect of their telephone calls. My attention was first drawn to this matter by a letter from a director of a charitable organisation in my electorate.  His  letter to me commenced: 
Every time I open a letter from this ALP Government they make me feel like the guy they nailed to a cross nearly 2,000 years ago. When are they going to stop crucifying us? 
To his letter he attached a copy of a letter written on behalf of the Postmaster-General, advising that the SO per cent concession on local telephone calls was no longer to apply and that it would cost his organisation approximately $800 more a year. My reply was not intended to be and will not be regarded by fairminded persons as being blasphemous. I wrote: 
You're right, but I cannot tell you which of the thieves on your left or right is the PostmasterGeneral. 
That is the situation today. In the late hours on the night of the introduction of the Budget last year the Postmaster-General announced measures his Department was taking. Regrettably, as every week passes, the people of Australia become more aware of privileges that previously existed being discontinued. Many charitable organisations are affected. One is Life Line, an organisation which spends much time on the telephone, providing a service for people who seek help. These are people who have great problems and are desirous of receiving counsel and assistance. Many are emotionally disturbed people. Life Line, in the course of its work, has to make many telephone calls. Yet the Federal Government wrote saying that the 50 per cent concession on telephone calls would be withdrawn. 
I notice that you,  Mr Speaker,  are showing a great interest in this matter. As a lame excuse for its action, the Postmaster-General's Department said that because of the introduction of subscriber trunk dialling the Post Office could not keep a close eye on the number of calls which were being made locally and the number which were STD or trunk line calls. I see the look of concern on your face,  Mr 

 Speaker, and I ask you: How many charitable organisations could afford to spend the day making STD or trunk line calls? The Government, as an alternative to the previously existing concession which dated back to 1933, has offered a one-third reduction on telephone rentals. A charitable organisation may have two or three telephones, for which it would pay about $150 a year in rental; so the Government's proposed concession is worth approximately $50. That charitable organisation may have made telephone calls to the value of $1,000. Previously it received assistance from the former Government to the extent of $500. The present Government, which parades itself as the friend of the downtrodden and those in need of help, is taking hundreds of dollars from these various organisations. Collectively, the amount involved would represent quite a large figure. Correspondence from the Minister's office explains that the Government cannot afford to continue the concession. This is a serious condemnation of the Australian Labor Party's administration of the Australian Post Office. 
The Government came to power 15 months ago. Since then we have seen postal services disappearing so quickly that a person almost has to go to the Post Office to collect his mail. Concessions for country newspapers and for periodicals which are published even in cities are disappearing. It is probable that within 3 years all these concessions will be completely gone. We have heard that the PostmasterGeneral wrote to  Mr Slater,  who resigned as No. 3 Senate candidate as a protest against the manner in which the Government is presently running the country. 
From the Australian Labor Party. I am glad that the honourable member for Kooyong reminded me of my omission. We have instance after instance of inefficiency on the part of the Post Office whose performance reflects directly on the Postmaster-General and the government of the day. If the government of the day and the Postmaster-General are doing a good job the public is satisfied with the Post Office. It is suggested that the cost of posting ordinary letters will rise from 7c to probably 9c or 10c in the near future. Saturday mail deliveries have disappeared and Federal members in Brisbane are affected. I notice in the chamber the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  and the honourable member for Bow man  (Mr Keogh).  Their letters no longer arrive in their Brisbane offices early on Monday mornings. On Monday of this week we Federal members in Brisbane had to wait until midday before our mail arrived. Those honourable members opposite, if they have any courage, will stand up and protest because parliamentary sittings are such that we have only Mondays in our offices to look after mail horn our constituents. Under this Labor Government the mail arrives almost 3 hours later than it did under the Liberal-Country Party Government. The Government has very little of which to be proud. 
In 1970 or 1971, when the previous Government raised the postal charges for ordinary letters from 5c to 7c, I gave notice in this House that it would not do so again with my sitting by nodding my head in agreement. I find it much easier now to attack the maladministration of this Labor Party Government. The attack will be continued by me, and I am sure by other members from this side of the House, because we have reached the stage where the Australian public is paying more for the delivery of a letter than is being paid in any other country. The stage has almost been reached where it will be cheaper for a citizen of the United States of America to post a letter to Australia than for a person in Brisbane to write a letter of protest to the Postmaster-General in Canberra. This is a very sad reflection of the way things are going in this country. I come back to my original subject. When a government has to resort to robbing charities and taking concessions from charities to meet the costs of the Postmaster-General's Department it is a very poor show. It is time the Australian Labor Party replaced the present PostmasterGeneral and tried to put in his place a man who is more capable of administering what is a very difficult department, but one for which the Australian taxpayer has to carry the cost. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Very briefly, the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  suggested that what he described as an offensive letter which I read into the Hansard record did not exist. I would be quite prepared, when the Parliament resumes in early April, to show him that letter. It does exist. There are charities which, to use their own words 'feel as if they have been crucified'. 
I direct this, my first question since last year, to the Minister for Labour. Is the Minister aware that in the national wage case currently being heard,  Mr Staples  as counsel appearing on his behalf was requested from the Bench to indicate his views - and hence the Minister's views - on the movement of productivity? Is the Minister aware that his representative simply dismissed the question by saying: 'Productivity is for people on my left and right to determine'? 
At the moment we are talking about a country which is virtually hundreds of dollars away from most other countries - a country which lacks the obvious sights and signs of previous civilisations with their past glories. Australia was settled less than 200 years ago. The settlement that Europeans brought to Australia is not unlike so many other parts of the world and if we carefully judge our continent we must realise that Australia does not have much to offer the international tourist. We have the magnificent Great Barrier Reef, Ayres Rock, the Sydney Opera House and a few other features if we think in terms of what an international tourist wishes to see. We have ourselves as a race of people worth getting to know. However we must recognise at all times that Australia has an uphill battle when it comes to selling itself on the overseas tourist market. 
In recent years we have been fortunate that the Japanese in their new era of affluence, have wanted more and more to visit Australia. In the last couple of years, however, because of the change in currency parity, we have seen a decline in American tourists. In 1963 American tourists represented 23 per cent of our entire tourist trade, but in 1972 this fell to 16 per cent. I do not know what the figure will be at the end of this year. The history of tourism in Australia shows a lamentable record in regard to the recognition of the importance of this industry by the present Government and the Government which held office prior to 1972. To support this condemnation I point out that it was only in the policy speech made in 1972 that the previous Government suddenly recognised when it had its back to the wall that it was about time we did something to -make money available to the tourist industry. As I see it the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  like his predecessors responsible for tourism, has seen the nub of the problem but when he goes to the Cabinet there is a definite lack of appreciation and understanding on its part. It is a great pity that each of the Ministers in charge of portfolios, no matter which party is in power, has had so much on his plate and he does not have the time to sit down for a few minutes to make a study of this very important industry. 
We have heard honourable members say that in the past year Australia earned $139m from the tourist industry but this amount is laughable when one considers that the tourist income in other countries runs into billions of dollars. Indeed, the small island of Jamaica earns as much as Australia from tourism. The secret of success is that these countries have access to the tourist market. The difficulty confronting Australia is in bringing people to this country. It is all very well for my dear friend the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  to suggest a lowering' of air fares to entice tourists to Australia. A study of the pattern of air fares over the last few years will reveal that there has been a downward trend in fares but because of the shortage of fuel this cannot continue and of course air fares have to rise on the international routes. This is another problem confronting Australia in promoting tourism. 
I believe that the Australian Tourist Commission has already predicted a downward trend in the number of tourists who may visit Australia. I have seen leaving Australia many aeroplanes filled to capacity with young Australians going overseas. There must be a greater effort overseas to fill those aeroplanes and bring people back to Australia. Perhaps a new air fare structure can be introduced to make tourism to this country more attractive. I conceded a moment ago that air fares will get dearer but the fact is that for years and years Australia's national airline, Qantas Airways Ltd, has hidden under the blanket of the International Air Transport Association by saying that IATA has stopped Qantas from doing this and that. On a number of occasions in recent years Qantas has seen fit to forget aboutIATA and go its own way. I do not believe that in the most ruthless jungle of free enterprise, that of air travel, there is any longer a need for our national airline to conform strictly with this loosely knit organisation known as IATA which makes agreements from which most airlines bail out if they feel it suits them to do so. A greater effort should be made to fill the planes which leave here and bring people back to Australia. 
What a tragedy this year has been for tourism. I do not necessarily blame the present Government for this situation. It may be that because the American dollar is worth only 65c Australian this has led to the situation where American Airlines have had to cease travel operations to this country. One of the hidden factors - and this is a point on which I could be critical of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  - is that if an overseas airline is flying to Australia it has a vested interest in ensuring the promotion of Australia in order to encourage people to use its aircraft to visit this country. I have on notice a question to the Minister for Transport. There was some talk in the newspapers that some effort would be made by Qantas to force British Airways to cut back the number of flights it makes to Australia. While I concede that our national airline ought to be filled to capacity as frequently as possible surely in the long term this is a short-sighted approach. 
Whilst I am speaking about civil aviation, I condemn the present Australian Labor Party Government for being so inconsistent in extending the writ of the Australian Tourist Commission whilst at the same time making it so much more expensive for Australians to travel within our shores. Since the ALP Government came to power it has adopted the attitude that the airline passenger must pay for every conceivable aspect of expenditure incurred. The effect has been an escalation in fares. I have not had the opportunity to study this area but I would be prepared to accept with out verification or even without checking that with the exclusion of the South-East Asian countries Australia has the highest rate per mile for internal airline travel of any other country. Despite this the previous speakers on the Government side have complained about the fact that Australians go overseas before they see Australia. 
I wish the Commission all the best in its endeavours to promote Australia. But the plain hard fact is that it is a lot cheaper to go overseas than it is to do a tour around this country. I believe that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who has shown a keen interest in this portfolio, is fully aware of this but has had little chance to make any impression whatsoever on the Cabinet which at present rules this country. Under this Bill we are extending the writ of activities which the Commission may engage in but we continue to make it harder for this very organisation, which this Bill sets out to assist, to work properly. 
The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  said that we have 3 tourist offices in the United States. I think he said they were located in Los Angeles, Chicago and some other place. I may be wrong but my understanding is that the office in Chicago was recently closed down. Therefore we only have 2 tourist offices in the United States. Chicago is one of the pick-up points for American Airlines. Because of the discontinued flights by this airline we have probably lost thousands of dollars in future tourist income, because there is a very large population in the central States of America. The honourable member also said that there is no concession for overseas visitors travelling in Australia. If my memory serves me correctly I believe that if an overseas tourist travels a distance of 1,000 miles in Australia his internal airfare is subject to a discount in the vicinity of 25 per cent. Although the honourable member for Banks was incorrect in respect of one aspect, which I have now corrected, he was dead right when he said - and he underlined this fact - that many overseas countries make concessions available to make it worth while for overseas visitors to travel within their country. We ignore the fact that millions of dollars will be lost in tourist earnings if we are not prepared to change direction and recognise the possibilities that can be tapped. 
I was rather brutally attacked by the honourable member for Banks and there was even a threat of violence in his words because I suggested that accommodation in Australia was not necessarily comparable to good accommodation overseas. It was amusing to listen to his colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who told a story of the bark hut in the north, where all he had was a tiled floor, and his 3 small children were in wooden beds. As a person who has been fortunate to travel - extensively inside Australia and abroad I can assure honourable members that our tourist accommodation outside the main capital cities, Surfers Paradise and a few odd hotels and motels throughout the rest of the country, is very much below international tourist standard. I shall not describe every little town or capital city I have ever visited or every island resort, but we must recognise that the commodity of service in Australia is so much more expensive. 
This is an area in which we really cannot compete. In the poorer Asian countries labour is so much cheaper and service can be turned on. In Australia it costs so much more for a bellboy, a bellhop or a girl to come every time you press a button and require a particular service. The overall costs of providing these people in Australia are so much greater. I commend the Government on one of the benefits of the amendment to the Commonwealth Banks Act which provides that finance will be made available to the tourist industry. Perhaps this source of money may assist in some way to upgrade the standard of accommodation which presently exists in Australia. 
I sincerely hope that no following speaker from the Government side will stand up and condemn me as a person with no pride in my own country or as someone who is disloyal. For those on the Government side who do not know, perhaps such an attack would be understandable, but those who have some understanding of the tourist industry I am quite certain would recognise that what I have said this evening is true and correct. In Asia the Australian Tourist Commission is laughed at - I mean this - by the Asians. It is not the fault of that organisation. We give it such a small handout - just $3m - to promote a country the size of Australia, and it cannot possibly do the job that it is supposed to do. I believe that with the little amount of money it has it is doing quite well. But it is almost ironic that in the Asian region, where the great bulk of people, particularly the Japanese live, there is so little respect for our tourist promotion. Why some tourists do come here, 1 do not know. Perhaps those who do all the surveys can work this out. 
It is high time that each and every one of us recognised that we in Australia have problems in promoting Australia, such as the great distances involved. This problem belongs to us; it does not, for instance, belong to Europe. We lack the glories of ancient civilisations to show off readily. We face an uphill battle and we should set about fighting it with an updated approach and with a recognition that frequently if one spends money it will soon come back. That is one of the areas where the present Government could help. To back up my statement, it is interesting to note a report contained in the 'Australian' of 11 February 1974. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Stewart,  is reported as saying: 
The Coombs Report was not exactly laudatory of tourism and I expect this would have had an effect on expenditure. 
My friends from the Australian Country Party and country members of the Liberal Party will surely spell out between now and the next election the long term effects of the Coombs Report. 1 know that the Coombs Report also suggested that the Brisbane airport proposal be shelved. 
I agree. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  heaped great praise on the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  for what had been achieved and  Mr Egerton  came out and condemned them all. Here we have another occasion when a Minister is running behind the Coombs Report and using it as a reason why things are not happening as they should be happening. The newspaper report also states: 

 Mr Stewart said he would be arguing 
What a pity this is - in Federal Cabinet for significant increases in spending on tourist development in the 1974 Budget. 
He agreed with the criticisms made in London  . . by the  chairman  of the Australian Tourist Commission,  Mr .  . . Greenway, who predicted a grim outlook for tourism in Australia this year. 
The writing is on the wall. It is up to this Government which has come to power to set about combating the decline which has occurred, not necessarily because of the fact that it has become the Government in Australia, but because of a number of other factors. There is a challenge ahead and I can assure the Minister that honourable members on this side of the House will at all times do everything possible to assist the Government to promote this most worthwhile industry which I think is as low as ninth or tenth on the list of Australian industries, when with a little bit more effort it could be pushed right up the ladder as a earner of foreign income. 
 Taking advantage of the very short time that is available to me, I remind the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who has just spoken that the Australian Council of Trade Unions is in a state of complete eruption over the Minister's policies. During his term as Minister we have seen a display where previous policies were overturned, but slowly the Minister has recognised that there was some wisdom in the previous policies relating to easy visas and so on, and suddenly, under a great cloud of publicity, he is reverting to those policies. It is appropriate to remind the Minister that during the time when the previous Government was in power, thousands of non-white people migrated to Australia and satisfactorily settled into the Australian way of life. The Minister is nothing but a phoney, an absolute phoney. 
-- Oh, he does not like it - the Griffith grape. 
I withdraw the statement that he is a phoney. No doubt there will be other phrases which others will use. But the point I want to make is that the Minister, who tonight claimed to be so concerned about his portfolio, has not answered question No. 729 on the notice paper relating to this very subject. 
On Tuesday. Also he has not answered the question that I placed on the notice paper on 21 March. I conclude by saying that I am sick and tired of being woken up by the Post Office early on Saturday morning- 
Yesterday, 7 April 1974, Federal Cabinet met here in Canberra and it had an agenda of some 30 items. At 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon Cabinet had not even discussed the first item on the agenda. Those of us who read this morning's newspapers were surprised to learn that what Cabinet had done yesterday was to make a last ditch stand to try to buy the voters of Australia. It handed out millions of dollars in one day. I refer specifically to the report that the Government will allocate $3. 7m for an airport terminal in Brisbane. All members of the parliamentary staff, all members of Parliament and all members of Hansard have grown weary at my constant pleas in this House for something to be done for the Brisbane Airport. 
Honourable members - Hear, hear! 
I know that hear hear' indicates agreement that something should have been done. During September last year I spoke on 6 occasions- 
The honourable member for McPherson says that I spoke very well. It brought results. On 6 occasions I spoke in an endeavour to try to focus attention on the way in which the people of Brisbane were being treated to a shabby deal in relation to the Brisbane Airport. The present Government, in a last ditch stand to try to save the seat of Lilley, is to allocate $3. 7m for the airport terminal in Brisbane. If we go back to the Press releases of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  over the last 15 months or so and add together all the amounts of money which it has been stated are 'being allocated for the Brisbane Airport, we find that they total more than $70m or $80m. Every time that a frightening situation arises the Labor Government comes out and says that so many million dollars will be allocated for the Brisbane Airport. I do not blame the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  or the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  for this. We all remember those terrible occasions last September when I used to speak about this matter and each of those honourable members used to attack me week in and week out. But the plain truth is that I had found a soft spot in the Australian Labor Party, because soon after I made my barrage of speeches a promise of money for the Brisbane Airport was made. 
The honourable member for Lilley who has just entered the chamber has a smile on his face from ear to ear because today the Brisbane 'Courier Mail' carried a story about the allocation of $3. 7m for the Brisbane Airport. What a shabby, shoddy deal the people of Brisbane are receiving, because if one refers to the Coombs report which was presented in the middle of last year one sees that this Labor Government appointed committee, under item 41 headed 'Civil Aviation - Brisbane Airport' on page 149, stated that $130m had been allocated for the Brisbane Airport. The report shows that for 1973-74 - that is the current financial year - the Liberal Government had allocated Sim for the Brisbane Airport. This Labor Government appointed committee states that in 1974-75 the Liberal Government was to spend Si 3m on the Brisbane Airport, in 1975-76 it was to spend $18m on the Brisbane Airport and, under the heading of 'later', it was to spend SI 30m on the Brisbane Airport. 
Now the people of Brisbane and of Queensland are expected to be bought off by the allocation of a lousy $3.7m for the Brisbane Airport. The plain truth is that during the recent floods, when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  left Australia, Queensland was submerged. Eventually he returned to Australia but he was prepared to spend only 35 minutes at the Brisbane Airport. That shows just how bad the situation is. We can refer to further Press releases by the Minister for Transport. The 'Australian' of 4 May 1973 carried a story headed *$6.5m To Pay For New Airport Land'. I know that if we go through past Press releases we will find millions of dollars allocated here and there. My friend the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  and I have often sat down and said What are they doing?' As learned as he may be and experienced as I may be, we still cannot figure out exactly what is going on. Let us recall the remarks of the Minister for Transport of 4 May last year. He said that there would be $6.5m to buy land for the new Brisbane Airport. He said Cabinet had agreed to the amount that week. Now here comes the crunch. He went on to say: 
Sufficient money would now be available to buy all of the northern side of Eagle Farm airport. 

 Mr Jones said that although further development of the airport was rejected by Cabinet . . . 
Further development was rejected by Cabinet' means that although the Labor-appointed Coombs task force 'had said that this money was being allocated, this Labor Government completely rejected the submissions that the amount should be available when needed. We could go on and on about the Brisbane airport. 
I see this allocation for the new terminal as a last ditch stand. General Custer had nothing on Charlies Jones's last stand and his efforts to save the honourable member for Lilley. The Government must think that the people of Brisbane can be easily bought if it thinks that this most cynical approach to a real problem will be dismissed because of the allocation of this money. I did not even tell the Minister for Transport that I was to speak on this subject because we have had the horrible situation of the Minister walking out of the Parliament when I have raised it on other occasions. He has never answered my speeches and 'has forced me into the regrettable situation where night after night I have had to come in here and plead for him to come and listen to the report of the plight of the people of Brisbane. 
In the time remaining I want to point out that more than 50,000 people in the city of Brisbane are affected by the Labor Government's refusal to continue with the plans which the previous Government implemented. The Minister for Transport thinks that this new terminal for international tourists or travellers is the answer to Brisbane's problems. I know that there have been many articles in the Press by  Mr Jack  Egerton who pointed out that the present terminal is falling down, that it is rotten, that there are white ants in it and that there could be a disastrous accident in which some 700 people could die. The Government is reacting, rightly, to an immediate need. There are people in the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley who have been forgotten. I refer to people in Hamilton and Ascot; to people in other areas such as Doomben and Eagle Farm; to people in my electorate in Bulimba, Balmoral, Hawthorn, Norman Park; and to people in Newstead and Teneriffe. They all are being affected by aircraft noise. This Government is not considering the quality of life. 
It is all right for Labor members to jump up after me and say that the previous Government did not do much about it. The fact is that we were in the midst of doing something about it. Government supporters may laugh if they want to. This is stated on page 149 of the Coombs report. The laugh will be taken off their faces at the next election. That is for sure my friends. It will be taken right off. The point is that the quality of life is not being considered. The Labor Party is not promising to redirect those aircraft which in recent years have become noisier and larger and which have intruded more and more into the homes of the 50,000 people in the suburbs I have mentioned. 'I am quite sure that I can say on behalf of the Opposition that when it is re-elected after the next election on 18 May it will implement immediately the Coombs report, which confirms that the Liberals would spend $13m immediately, $18m the year after, and SI 30 thereafter. We should not be promised a lousy  $3  .7m, which is nothing but a small prawn on a hook. But the people of Brisbane must be careful because if they swallow the prawn they are going to get hooked. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In supporting the 2 Bills I refer to the first page of the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in which he said: 
In terms of hardship and damage, the floods were one of the largest, if not the largest, disasters that has occurred in this country. 
Further in his speech he said: 
The amount that the Australian Government expects to provide, $66m, will dwarf any previous expenditure on assistance provided in the case of any single disaster. 
I think the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  hit the nail on the head when he suggested that people who are not residents in Queensland do not fully understand and appreciate the extent of the devastation which hit the State of Queensland, lt is ironic that a  Mr Edward  Shepherd produced a report in June 1971 which warned of the possibility that a catastrophe could hit the Brisbane and Ipswich areas. It is interesting to reflect on his words which appeared in an article in the 'Australian' of 27 March when he said that he doubts whether anything would have been achieved if the Government had taken his advice and released information to the public on the flood risk from the Brisbane River to new areas being developed. He said: 
Knowing the psychology of people, what could have been achieved? The Government would have been called scaremongers. The immediate risk could not have been appreciated. We had been 76 years without a major flood and the Government did take action by deciding to build the Wivenhoe Dam - the flood just came 10 years too early. 
He denied that the report had been kept under covers and said: 
It was released, but admittedly it wasn't shouted from the hilltops. 

 - Mr Shepherd, the  Deputy  Chief Engineer at the CoordinatorGeneral's Department. He is the man who actually compiled the report to which I referred. It is also ironic that in my electorate of Griffith on the southern side of the Brisbane River there are a great number of homes which are constantly subjected to floods. Recently I checked with the Brisbane City Council in relation to a scheme it had announced whereby it would make land available on a swap basis to those people who are constant victims of floods. Because of man's psychological make-up, he is king of his house. Very few people understand the flood unless they were personally involved. Apparently not one of the residents in the area to which I have referred has applied to the Brisbane City Council for a land swap. In the years to come these same areas will again be subject to flooding and the story will be repeated again and again. The point that must not be lost is that not all of Queensland and not all of Brisbane is subject to flooding such as happened on this occasion. This was the flood of the century. I hope that none of us will during our lifetime witness another flood of these proportions. 
I also pay tribute to the efforts of the local shire councils and the Brisbane City Council, and to the tremendous effort made by the 
Quensland State Government and the contribution of the Federal Government. This was a time when few people, particularly those in government bodies, could stand up and seek praise for their efforts because it was a time when government authorities - local, State and Federal, had no alternative but to respond to the crisis of the hour. The people who deserve the really solid thanks are members of the volunteer organisations who so willingly gave of their time, those persons in the armed forces who took risks they did not have to take, and also the members of the Queensland police force who have come out of this tragic event with an image that is better than ever. Those people took risks they did not have to take. They went beyond the call of duty. We are all very thankful to them. I thank the radio stations in Queensland and those who organised the fund raising appeals. 
I mention specifically the people of the south in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart and Canberra who responded so generously to the call for financial assistance. I will have something to say later on about the Government. I can now tell the people of the south that the people of Queensland will not forget the way in which they so kindly emptied their pockets to assist a part of this continent which at times seems to be so remote. I think many people appreciated the difficulties which confronted the people of Queensland in Brisbane, Ipswich and other parts of the State. 
I would like to recapitulate on some of the history of Australia Day weekend 1974. It is not my intention to be completely political in this matter; I will just be objectively critical. This was a time of sheer and utter confusion. There was a wrangle between a local council authority and the State Government of Queensland which was probably due to the stress of the occasion more than anything else. While people continue to be people and deal with each other, there will always be little misunderstandings which cause emotion and which, in the stress of the moment, lead to a magnification of the issue. But despite all these difficulties there was a great deal of co-operation between local government authorities, the State Government and the Federal Government. A slight outburst which was reported in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 6 February involved the Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who was said to be very annoyed and called upon the Federal Government to approach the problems more justly by giving to the Ipswich appeal instead of giving only to the Brisbane Lord Mayor's flood appeal. After a while this problem was rectified. However, on 28 January there was unfortunately a provocative statement made unthinkingly by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison).  The honourable member for St George came to Brisbane wearing neatly pressed dry cleaned slacks and a nice fresh raincoat. The Minister took one look at the situation and blamed the State Government and local government for allowing people to build homes on flood plain areas. This reveals how little was the interest the Minister took. Whilst there may be some areas of Brisbane which are subject to constant flooding many of the people who were the victims of the 1974 flood never in their wildest dreams imagined what might happen. Furthermore - this must be underlined - there was the absence of the Prime Minister. Press articles throughout Australia carried headlines like 'Where was the Prime Minister?' 
I will answer the honourable member later. I will come back to myself. I can look after myself like the people of Queensland will look after the honourable member at the next election. Just settle down. T will come back to myself. 
That is right. I have in my possession a copy of a post card addressed to  Mr Whitlam,  care of South East Asia. It reads: 
Dear Prime Minister, 
Having a flood. Wish you were here. 
It is signed 'Queensland'. This typifies the reaction to the Prime Minister's actions. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard an article 'This Week in Canberra' by Wallace Brown which appeared on 9 February in the Courier Mail'. 
I will come back to that. 
The Minister asks whether I was going to China. Another honourable member mentions Japan. I will come to this later. In the 'Nation Review' of 14 February 1974 appeared an article by Mungo MacCallum in which he stated: 
Just what Whitlam could do in Queensland in a practical sense has not been satisfactorily explained- 
I go along with that comment. Emotions were involved. The article continued:  and since a lot of the criticism has come from loyal party workers- 
He is referring to Labor Party workers-  propping up bars in Canberra and points south, it seems exaggerated;- 
And here is the punch line-  but there is undoubtedly a backlog of resentment within the Party which is being exploited by both the Federal Opposition and the Queensland Government, and which must rebound both on Whitlam personally and on the Government. 
The fact was that  Mr Whitlam  did not care; he really did not care. 
The Minister asks where I was. I will tell him and will refer to my efforts. He can check this. It reinforces my belief that Canberra hardly cared about Queensland during the recent floods despite the Minister's own concern. The truth is that on 28 January I was with a parliamentary delegation in Sri Lanka. I was duc to leave the next morning to visit China. I walked into a shop early in that afternoon. It was evening time on the eastern seaboard of Australia. On my lapel I had a kangaroo badge. The shopkeeper looked at it and asked: 'You come from Australia, sir?' I said: 'Yes'. He said: 'God save Brisbane'. I said: 'What?'. He said. 'Brisbane declared a disaster area. Only He can help now.' That was the first I heard of the floods in Brisbane. I immediately went to the Australian High Commission to try to ascertain exactly what had happened. The High Commission had not heard a word from Australia. I have since established that many Australian embassies throughout the world had not been advised by the Department of Foreign Affairs that Queensland and Brisbane were being subjected to the greatest disaster of this century or in living memory. The High Commission sent a telegram to Canberra asking what was happening in Queensland. It did not have any information. The following morning I was due to leave on a plane from Colombo to Bangkok en route to Hong Kong and thence to Canton. At the time I was due to leave Colombo the Department of Foreign Affairs still had not wired any information through. 
The honourable member suggests that this was incredible. I could not believe it. Without any information I proceeded to Bangkok where the embassy there told me that 9 people had been drowned. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  can verify this statement, as can the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder),  the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  and  Senator Davidson.  Let no one cast any shadow upon the accuracy of what I am saying. In Bangkok 1 established what was happening in Brisbane and I headed straight for home. That I could not get out of Singapore from the Tuesday until the Friday night was not my fault. I joined hundreds of Australians who were stranded in that city. If honourable members do not believe me they can verify this by checking with the office of Qantas Airways Ltd in Singapore. I arrived back in Brisbane on the Saturday morning after having thrown to the wind a trip to China, a trip on which I would have been breaking new ground for myself as a Liberal. I was not the only person to interrupt an overseas trip. 
It has been suggested that the Prime Minister could not interrupt his trip. In the 'Courier Mail' of 13 February is an article wherein it is stated: 
Government sources said at the time that such  a  change was impossible because of the arrangements made to visit several Asian heads of state on  a  strict timetable. 
This was the explanation for the Prime Minister's absence. Despite the fact that he says he is the greatest, I do not believe that the Prime Minister could have stopped the rains or prevented the floods, but we would have liked to see him in Queensland. Furthermore, I have done some research and have managed to get my hands on the itinerary of the Prime Minister. If he had not been so critical when he was  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, perhaps I might not be so vociferous in my criticism of him today, but in 1961 he barnstormed Queensland talking about  Sir Robert  Menzies being overseas and not caring about Queensland. The Prime Minister did exactly what he criticised others for doing. One thing is for certain,  Sir Robert  Menzies did not turn his back on Queensland in a time of disaster. However, everybody wants me to refer to this itinerary. I can hear honourable members asking about it. I will refer to it. The Prime Minister arrived at the KingsfordSmith Airport. I seek leave to incorporate the itinerary in Hansard. 
He arrived at the airport at 10.20 in the morning and left on his special flight at 11.10 a.m. 
I came back. I cut short my trip, as did  Senator Byrne.  The Australian Labor Party is obviously becoming very upset and touchy about what I am saying. That is why I am saying it. 
If the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory reads my speech he will see that I have said that I was stranded in Singapore for 3 days. I was stranded and Qantas was doing its best to get me on a flight. If the Minister wants to debate this matter with me in Queensland I will get Qantas to verify my claim. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I do not think there is any need to pursue the matter of the itinerary too much further. I suggest to the honourable member that he come back to the terms of the legislation. 
Honourable members opposite have set out to waste time. Because of that I will not be able to refer in detail to the itinerary. But the itinerary is here for anyone to see. The Prime Minister could have made time to visit Brisbane had he cared. Furthermore, the distance between Brisbane and Kuala Lumpur, the first stop on his itinerary, is 4,026 miles and- between Sydney and Kuala Lumpur it is 4,118 miles.  His  trip would have been about 90 miles shorter via Brisbane and he did not have anything to do except to go to a reception and then a dinner that was put on by the Australian High Commissioner. So the claims of supporters of the Labor Government that he was engaged in interviews and conferences with high officials were but a smokescreen to try to coyer up. The way in which the members of the Labor Party have reacted to my speech today vindicates my standing in this chamber and raising this matter. They are obviously sensitive about it and recognise that the Prime Minister did the wrong thing. Nevertheless, I thank the Commonwealth Government for the financial contribution it will make to Queensland, and also to State and local government in Queensland. 
This is indeed a great moment for the people of Queensland. I regard this as being the time when the efforts of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  and myself have borne fruit. If a story were to read: 'Once upon a time a member of a newly elected government won a seat by 35 votes and then that government, at a time of desperation, took action to try to save that seat' - we would have the key to the successful initiation of this Brisbane Airport project. The reasons outlined by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  cannot be argued properly from this side of the House because I have not seen the actual report which was tabled a short while ago in this House. That report, I understand gave the problems of termites, fire hazards, rats, mice, drugs and so on as the reasons for the urgency of this matter. 
The fact is that last Sunday Cabinet met in Canberra under most unusual circumstances - the threat of an election. Cabinet Ministers came to Canberra with an agenda of some 30 items. They did not even look at the agenda. They spent the day in a desperate bid trying to look at those areas in which expenditure was suddenly needed in an endeavour to save some of those seats which will certainly return to the Liberal fold on 18 May. 
I draw the attention of the honourable member for Petrie to the Minister for Transport who is here on one of his infrequent incursions into the House when we are speaking about the Brisbane Airport. All honourable members will recall that time and time again when I spoke on the subject of the Brisbane Airport I issued invitation after invitation to the Minister for Transport to join us here and to answer some of my criticisms. He always kept away. He would never come into the chamber when I was speaking about the Brisbane Airport. The 'Gair affair' is regarded by the public as deserving of contempt. I am quite certain that the Brisbane Airport- 
Oh! The honourable member for Lilley is nervous. He is "Lilley-white'. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. It is my intention not to ask the Prime Minister whether anybody is missing who he felt would be here but rather to ask him a question in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the words: 'Since the present American, ambassador has arrived in Australia he has constantly used pressure against the Australian Government in a way I suppose never equalled by any foreign government for 100 years'? Considering that these are the words of his  Deputy  Prime Minister written in a letter last January, will the Prime Minister inform the House of the pressure to which his  deputy  refers? 
What I have to say will be very brief because under the rules which exist under this new Government we have been allowed only a few minutes in which to debate this legislation. The most pertinent factor is that the present Government has been returned to power with 49.3 per cent or just about half of the total vote. If this country were manipulated, as honourable members on the Government side would like to see, this just would not happen. The Government won power in 1972 on 49.7 per cent of the votes. It is holding power on 49.3 per cent. It is difficult to perfect democracy but the point is that fairness does not exist in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member for Griffith will resume his seat. The time allocated for the remaining stages of the Bill has now expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a third time. 
I wish to add comment on the motion before the House. A few months ago the Government changed the hour at which the motion that the House do now adjourn was moved. Since that time we have heard many miserable moans from Government supporters. Under the system, the adjournment debate commences at 10.30 p.m. each evening and concludes at 11 p.m. which means that members of the Opposition on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights commence the adjournment. Government supporters occupy the middle section and Opposition members the concluding 10 minutes. This meant that Government supporters had only 3 opportunities a week to bring before the Parliament matters which they felt should be brought "before the Parliament. I take this opportunity to remind Government supporters who constantly sit silent whenever the Minister for Services and Property and 
Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  brings forward changes to the Standing Orders that the Minister who is now putting forward this program is the person responsible for the lack of opportunity for debate. 
This afternoon and yesterday in this Parliament we witnessed a most deplorable incident when the Government introduced Bills to change the Commonwealth Electoral Act, the Health Act and another Act and set the guillotine' on the proposals. Many new members of this Parliament who have just arrived and who have no fixed ideas on these matters were not given an opportunity to express their viewpoints and to hear others and yet had to vote one way or the other. Government supporters were in this position but they suffered in silence. If one reads the Hansard record of proceedings of a few months ago one will see that only one person in this Parliament at that time objected to changes to the orders relating to the adjournment proposed by the Leader of the House and that was I. I do not claim to have been gifted with great wisdom or forward thinking but at that time I saw that it would be the ordinary back bench members of this Parliament who would be the ultimate sufferers. My friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is now a shadow Minister, came to me after I had spoken on that occasion and said: T did not see that happening, but now that you have drawn it to our attention, it is likely to happen'. It has been Government supporters who have suffered by this change in the Standing Orders. 
I conclude these few remarks by saying simply that if in the future members on the Government side feel deprived of opportunities to speak on the adjournment debate they should not regard it as the fault of the Opposition. They are living and suffering under a prescription written by the Leader of the House who is a member of their Party. If they feel that democracy is suffering, may I respectfully suggest that they put this question on the agenda for their next Party meeting so that  Mr Daly  as Leader of the House will be aware that Government supporters have in recent months been complaining about the situation which presently exists. As far as I am concerned, if honourable members want to introduce a system which would involve Government supporters and Opposition members taking it in turns to commence the adjourn ment debate on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday evenings so that we have an even balance of opportunity to speak, I would be utterly opposed to it because the system under which honourable members opposite presently are suffering is their own. 
I take this opportunity to make a few comments in relation to road safety. Of course, all members of this Parliament endorse the creation of this Committee and endorse also the work it has done in the past and the suggestions it has made. However, while the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is in the House I want to raise a matter about which I wrote to him some months ago. At that time he wrote to all members of the Parliament requesting that we write back to him drawing to his attention those particular areas in our electorate which we regarded as being accident prone. This is a case of Commonwealth Government, Federal Government or Australian Government - whatever honourable members like to call it - involvement in another area which previously was the province of the State governments and local councils. With all the imagination in the world I find it hard to come to the conclusion that it is not a waste of the nation's resources to have local governments, State governments and the Commonwealth Government all involving themselves in a decision concerning where a zebra crossing may be placed, where flashing warning lights above pedestrian crossings should be provided, or where lights should be installed at intersections. 
Road safety is a field of specialisation. All State governments already employ people with the knowhow who have come to the conclusions which the Minister is seeking from members of Parliament. I, for one, do not regard myself as a specialist in deciding which of the corners, hills and all those other areas which make up the traffic ways in the 1,157 streets in the Federal electorate of Griffith, on the south side of Brisbane- 
In speaking in opposition to this Bill I support the remarks of my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  One of the problems which have confronted this country in the last 18 months or so is that the new Government came to power with a belief that everything that previously stood needed to be upturned and changed before we could get some semblance of organisational efficiency. This nation's courts have stood for nearly threequarters of a century with the imperfections which exist and have, during that time, teased and troubled the minds of successive Liberal Party Attorneys-General. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and the present Government get delight from making reference to previous Liberal Party Ministers who, in the past, have been advocates of the Superior Court. However, each and every one of these early ministers has, at a later stage, changed his mind. Yet the present Government comes to power and very early during its occupation places on the notice paper its intention to introduce the Superior Court Bill. I ask: How much thought has been given to this most vital change which is being proposed - a change which can turn the State Supreme Courts into courts of petty sessions, virtually overnight? I further ask the Minister to inform this House what he has in mind, when this monstrosity is eventually created, to replace the efficient country circuits which presently exist throughout the various States. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry comes from the very small area of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry, who is sitting at the table, held the portfolio of Minister for the Capital Territory but the Government had to transfer him to another portfolio so that he could continue to hold the pocketsized borough, the Australian Capital Territory. I come from a State, the second largest State in Australia, which could virtually swallow a thousand times over - even more - this little Capital Territory pocket. The people living in the outback are burdened - I use the word 'burdened' selectively because the legal system regrettably is far too costly for the average man - with court problems. However they are fortunate in that in my State there is a visiting court. What does the Minister suggest that those people do in the future? Does he suggest that they pick up their goods and chattels and travel to one of Australia's capital cities to fulfil the requirements of a Government that decides from Canberra what is best for the nation? At a time when the rest of the world and other federations, such as Australia, are returning to a true federal system, we are still going through the immature stage of embarking upon a path of no return. 
I conclude where I commenced, by making again a plea to the. Minister to hasten slowly because decisions which have been reversed by successive previous Liberal Party AttorneysGeneral were not made lightly. When a man changes his mind and says: 'Yes, originally I thought that was good but, on reflection, I recognise that it has flaws and is not so good,' I give full marks to him. I cannot but wonder just how much thought the present Government has given to this huge change it is proposing. I hope that common sense will prevail and that Government supporters will not continue to think: 'We have got the numbers now. We are going to make this country as we want it, with as little thought as is necessary.' 
 I am angered that I am forced into a situation where I have no option other than to draw the following matter to the attention of the Parliament and the people of Australia. Because of actions bordering on corruption, and in one instance stupidity, I have no alternative other than to involve others to make my allegations creditable. Since the Australian Labor Party Government came to office, the Minister for Services and Prop- erty  (Mr Daly)  has commanded the agreement and respect of both sides of the Parliament for his efforts to improve the working facilities of members of the Parliament both here in Canberra and in the electoral offices. Regrettably, the compliments appear to have gone to the Minister's head and he has lost sight of that which is right and that which is wrong. 
Members are aware that one of the many improvements made, is that in each capital city, a pool of relieving secretaries has been created to assist members when their private secretaries are away because of illness, leave, or a more lately extended privilege, in the event of there being simply too much work for one person to do.  His  changes were welcomed because the system was crumbling. We have been verbally instructed that the pool of secrettaries is not to be used for political party campaigning purposes. However, an evil genius within the member for Grayndler, the Minister, raised its head in the weeks prior to the May general election. During the election campaign the entire secretarial pool of three was allocated exclusively to the Australian Labor Party machine in Queensland. Public servants were forced to work in an election campaign for the Australian Labor Party members of the House of Representatives and a senator at taxpayers' expense. The only accusation that cannot be made is that the Minister was sneaky. It was done for all to see. After the election, when I challenged the situation with a departmental official from the Department of Services and Property, he told me that nobody else had asked for help. Others did not ask for help because of the instruction that had been issued relating to the misuse of the pool. I am, however, informed by a person who was at that time vitally associated with Democratic Labor Party exSenator Condon Byrne, that when he requested extra assistance during this period it was refused. Some departmental officers have short memories. 
I recall very clearly that when I used one of the vacant offices in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices to place a voluntary worker for my campaign in less crowded conditions outside my office, I was told that there would be trouble and it was in the interests of harmony that the practice be ceased forthwith. Not a cent of government money was involved and yet the small minds went to work. I complied without grumble to avoid the understandable antagonism and tension that exists at election time, despite what I could see was happening elsewhere. Although I viewed the Government's misuse of public funds with disgust, I was prepared to forget the matter so as to avoid involving individuals who had no alternative other than to be compliant with the heavy hand of the ALP Government in office and the directions of the Minister. I am informed that exactly the same misuse existed in Western Australia. I have not checked other States. 
We did not have to wait to be further angered by misuse of office and power. Honourable members will recall that the Australian Labor Party did poorly in Queensland in the recent elections and lost seats. One exsecretary has been given a job in the relieving secretarial pool for members of Parliament. Surely every person in this Parliament and in the nation will appreciate that members of Parliament must expect complete neutrality from a relieving secretarial pool. There is a natural question mark upon a person who previously worked at the Brisbane Trades Hall and later became a private and confidential secretary to an ALP Federal member of Parliament. The Minister can only be condemned for this tactless and unfair appointment because it places all in a position of embarrassment. There are many other positions available but I consider such an appointment in such circumstances to be embarrassing on many sides. The Minister no longer has respect for the criterion of obvious neutrality. If you are Labor, you are hired; that is his rule of thumb. There are 27 Government departments but the Minister places her in an invidious position. My feelings would be exactly the same if the person had worked at Liberal Party headquarters and then for a Liberal member of Parliament, regardless of whether it was an ALP or a Liberal appointment. 
Again, it had been my intention to say nothing, but recent events indicate that this Government will, voluntarily, stop at nothing and must be stopped. I now commence the next stage of premeditated stupidity. Since memory recalls, the Parliament has used as a rule to establish the seniority of back benchers the date of their first arrival in the Parliament. That means that in Queensland the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  is our most senior member of Parliament. He is followed by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr 
Killen), the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and, despite the fact that he was out of office for 18 months, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who was first elected in 1963. I understand that ex-Ministers are entitled to priority over longer serving members. On this basis, the honourable member for Moreton is most senior. After the honourable member for Lilley, I am next on the scale and only Senators Keeffe, Wood and Lawrie are my seniors in terms of service in my State of Queensland.  Mr Hayden  and  Dr Patterson  are, of course, excluded as they do not come into these calculations because of their ministerial status. 
When the Labor Party perverted democracy by endeavouring to pull a swifty with the appointment of  Senator Gair  to Ireland, the Minister for Services and Property personally directed that the senator's large suite of offices reserved for a party leader be locked. But suddenly, last week, the Minister's disregard for honesty in government reappeared when he allocated to a lately arrived ALP senator,  Senator Gair's  party leader's suite. This is not a question of sour grapes on my part because I do not qualify for the offices in question, but it is an abrogation of all that has been established in the past and pays not even scant regard to seniority, just party politics. I regret that I have no alternative but to allude to the senator, but he is but another victim of the lack of decency and honesty which exists within the Minister and if there is any embarrassment it is again the Minister's fault. I will not remain silent forever. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 have accurately expressed the sentiments of the Brisbane based Opposition members and even the staff of the Brisbane based Opposition members feel this way. The wrongful allocation of the party leader's suite is but one of the last straws that have broken the silence. The latest that has come to my attention is that on 15 June the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  tentatively agreed to a request by the Australian Labor Party in Queensland that he open a Press office in Brisbane. What is more, this Labor propagandist and apologist would be a charge on the public purse. The taxpayers would be footing the Bill for this very questionable exercise - an exercise in brainwashing the people of Queensland and to enable the Prime Minister and the Queensland Parliamentary Australian Labor Party to attack the Queensland Premier. This is a most blatant and disgraceful expenditure of the public purse. It says little for the integrity or the ability of the ALP in Queensland. Never before has a Prime Minister provided staff for a State parliamentary party. I am grateful to the person who provided this information. The lengths to which the present Government will prostitute itself and democracy in order to preserve what it considers its future are unbelievable. 
In the early  months  of the Labor Government's reign I was naive in that I truly and sincerely believed a sense of idealism existed. But that trust has been shattered by small happenings which are symptomatic of abuse at far-reaching levels. I reject the cry of ALP apologists who may say that the Liberals did the same, because we did not. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Services and Property and every ALP Minister has a duty to retain in Australia a semblance of honesty in government. I have no doubt that if the Liberal Party had done what I have referred to, the Minister for Services and Property would not have displayed the same patience and would have spoken out days ago. I hope that the Minister will take advantage of the next few minutes to try to answer some of the claims that I have made because they are causing grave concern in Queensland. People are concerned about the Minister's attitudes and what might in the future be regarded as democracy. When the Minister for Services and Property has responsibility for such matters as redistribution under the electoral Acts, the democracy and the freedom of this nation are at stake. 
In speaking in support of the improvement in this measure introduced by the Government I would like to remind all Government supporters that they have little reason to be proud of themselves because it will not take long before the position that has been reached as a result of this increase has been totally and completely eroded and the people who are relying wholly and solely upon the age pension for their livelihood are again struggling to make ends meet. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who preceded me in the debate, referred in colourful terms to the achievements of the Labor Government. He begrudgingly made himself out to be an honest member of Parliament by saying that he acknowledged that there has been some change in the rate of inflation since the Labor Government came to power. The actual change in the rate has been to such an extent that if the Labor Government were not providing for increases of the size made possible by this Bill there would be a great increase in the number of people on the street of poverty. 
One area which causes me great concern is the difference in the rate paid to married couples as compared with the amount received by single people living together. Over the years I have received a continuing flow of letters from married couples complaining about the difference which exists between their rate of pension and the amount which is paid to single people. I have always believed that 2 people sharing the same electricity for cooking, lighting, television and refrigeration for keeping food cold could live a little cheaper than 2 persons living apart. The stage has now been reached where I feel compelled to speak out on behalf of the married pensioners who are being victimised by the present Government because of the rates that have been fixed. 
In 1965  -  the honourable member for Robertson went back into history; therefore I think that I am entitled to do the same - the difference between the married rate of pension and the amount paid to 2 single people living together was $1 per annum. Between 1966 and 1967 it was $1.25. In 1968 it was $1.50. In 1969, 1970 and 1971 it was $1.75. In May 1972 it was $2.25. In October 1972, as a result of pension increases, the difference rose to $2.75. The situation has now been reached in which every fortnight a married couple receive in their pay packet $21 less than the amount which would be received by 2 single people living under a common roof in the place next door. It should be taken into consideration that if the married couple own their own home they have to meet the cost of maintaining it and they do not receive a supplementary rent allowance. Those couples are a long way behind. I raise my voice on behalf of those married couples who are in receipt of a pension and who are endeavouring to maintain their own homes at a standard which will not result in the ultimate destruction of the home through neglect. 
The consumer price index indicates that there has been a rapid increase in the cost of maintaining and repairing houses. If we take the year 1966-67 as being the base figure of 100 and we move forward to 1972 we find that the base figure had increased to 125.2. That was when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power. There was a movement of 25 points in a matter of 6 years. If we move into more recent history we see that between September 1973 and the end of June 1974 the consumer price index has moved some 23 points. It has taken a Labor Government 9 months to send up costs in this area to an extent which nearly rivals the performance of Liberal-Country Party governments over a period of 6 years. The message is loud and clear, that with tradesmen's wages continuing to soar and with the high tax rate which is being maintained and exploited by this Government to finance its grandiose schemes, it is becoming more and more difficult for married people who own their own homes to retain the standard of those homes. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was raised in my electorate. He does not need to be told about some of the poorer areas which exist on the near south side of Brisbane. If the Government continues on the path that it is following without awareness of or care for married people or single persons living in their own homes it will be creating new areas of poverty and slums throughout the various cities in Australia. Many of the areas which are regarded as presently needing attention for social reasons - because they are low cost housing areas, because their houses are neglected, unpainted and falling away - have been created in the past because two or three decades ago Australia did not have the prosperity that it presently enjoys. But if the Government continues along the present path it will create new areas like those areas which many Australians pretend do not even exist. I ask the Minister to pay close attention to the possibility of that happening. Perhaps he will be able to devise a scheme whereby the people who need to retain the standard of their homes are lent cheap money, financed through the Commonwealth Bank or some other such area, to enable them to keep up the standards. I do not know what would be the best possible scheme in the long term but what I do know is that we need to pay attention to this area. I hope that during the next 3 years the Minister will pay some attention to it. 
It is the desire of both sides of the House to have this Bill passed and to let it go to the Senate so that the people who are awaiting this pension increase will receive it next week. I would like to make some comment on behalf of those people who in the past paid into superannuation schemes or saved for their future - for their old age or their years of retirement. Regrettably, in the last 18 months, since this present Government came into power, we have seen the erosion of their position. It is called inflation. Inflation is hurting every Australian. But this is another area where people are being hurt. I know that it is the intention of both the Government and the Opposition to eliminate the means test in the long term but there are a lot of people outside it who have in past years so secured their future, that they did not believe that they would ever be dependent upon a pension payment. The inflation that has been allowed to rage in this country in the name of progress or 'going great' has been such that many of these people are being reduced to the state whereby very soon they will become very dependent upon the pension. 
I ask the Minister to give consideration to relaxing some of the concessions which presently exist for people on the pension for such things as telephone rentals, and to ask the various local councils and State governments to extend concessions in relation to transport and television licences. Perhaps the Minister will suggest that the pensioner medical scheme will be covered if he is successful in his endeavours to introduce a national health scheme. There is a case to be made for all people today who are no longer earning money and who have reached the stage of retirement or are on the pension. It covers the entire field. I hope that the Minister remembers these comments and when he next attends to improvements, will bear these people in mind. 
 I have always regarded the right of a member to speak in this chamber with privilege as a complete privilege, and never at any time have I abused that special privilege which very few people in Australia are given. But what I would like to say in answer to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is that everything I claimed last night to be correct has been acknowledged by him this evening as correct. Whether they be a series of errors or whether they be temporary appointments, the case as I presented it last night truly exists. I believe that the Minister has been a little unfair in saying I have never given him credit for the vast improvements that have been made since he took over the portfolio - because I acknowledged that in the opening of my speech. Regarding the allocation of secretaries throughout Australia 1 would dearly like to see the entire list showing where every relieving secretary in Australia worked. After the appointment of the relieving secretarial pool in Queensland we were told that the members of it were not to be used by us in our offices for party political purposes relating to campaigning. 
Can I tell the Minister later in private or does he want me to have the name recorded in Hansard? 
It is true. I do not abuse the privilege that is given to me as a member of Parliament. It is true that we were told not to do this. No member of the Liberal or Country Parties in Brisbane - I do not know about country members - asked for this kind of assistance prior to the election. The Minister has spoken about campaign funds. I saw this situation in the light that we were not to use these girls. We met out of our own funds the cost of employing a girl to work in our office for 4 weeks so that we did not break the rule that we believed existed. 
As to the second question of the employment of the lass concerned, I repeat what I said last night: Without casting any particular aspersions upon the woman concerned, I do not believe that any person who had a background such as that woman possesses should be thrown into a situation in which she has to work, like it or -lump it, for the man - seeing that the Minister has mentioned the name of her previous boss - who actually defeated the man for whom she worked. I said last night that it was a tactless appointment and that there were 27 other Government departments in which she could have been given a position, which would have avoided the embarrassment which exists at the moment. Certainly she worked for me a couple of weeks ago and to my knowledge she has not broken any confidences that came into her possession as a result of her having worked for me. But it still places people in a very difficult situation. Because the Minister chooses to surround himself with certain people whom he is prepared to trust this does not mean that every person has the same attitude to staff. I hope that he continues to get loyal service from those people that he has on his staff. But the Minister should not expect every one else to apply the same criterion as he is happy to apply. 
Thirdly, as to the office of  Senator Milliner  - another person whose name the Minister has introduced into the debate tonight - might I simply say in reply that the Minister's pathetic and weak explanation that it is a temporary affair speaks for itself. As far as I am concerned, I am happy to let the matter rest there, as long as the rule of fair play applies in the future. If things are being done behind the Minister's back it is good that he now knows about them. 
Perhaps one of the most interesting speeches this afternoon was that of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  a member of the medical profession, a member of the Australian Labor Party, yet a member of the Parliament who has enough courage to suggest to his lay socialist Minister that he does not foresee happy times ahead with the Australian Labor Party's health scheme as presently proposed. The issues we discuss today are but complementary Bills to the Bill which this Parliament will be discussing next week during the joint sitting. That was a Bill on which the Opposition was prepared to go to the polls last May and a Bill which the Gallup polls throughout Australia recorded as one that the great majority of Australians opposed. Yet the present Government persists in introducing in Australia a system of health care which is doomed before it starts. 
We are presently discussing Bills to implement the financial burden or Hayden's health tax, as it is presently known throughout the country. Before going any further I should like to read an article from a very reputable English newspaper called the 'Weekly Times' of 29 June 1974.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  even you, can see the headline from here, it is so large. It is: 'Long Queues - And Some Hospitals Going Broke'. The article deals with the crisis which faces Britain's health services. I shall read the article for all present. It states: 
Britain's National Health Service - much envied by the world - is in a critical state. In fact, on the verge of collapse. 
Our 70,000 overworked doctors admit it only needs something like a major flu epidemic to cause utter chaos. 
In some hospitals newly admitted patients have to sit on bare mattresses all day waiting for bed linen. Babies are being born in hospital corridors because of a shortage of bed space in the wards. 
And the queue of patients waiting for an NHS bed and treatment grows alarmingly every day. 
The article states further: 
Already, many hospitals are accepting only emergency cases like accidents,  coronaries,  haemorrhages and birth deliveries. Non-urgent operations are being put off for months or even years. 
This is what the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is trying to thrust upon us, despite his denials. The article continues under the sub-heading 'Impossible to budget'. It states: 
Why is the NHS so sick? 
Bluntly, shortage of money and staff. 
The Government lopped off 11 lm from this year's health service allocation of 3378m. The NHS expected to get an increase of 92m. 
Many hospital boards claim it has been impossible to budget on the reduced amount and estimate they will run out of money by the end of September. 
A little further on the article continues: 
A Northampton hospital has closed 5 wards to try to economise and has had to cancel over 30 operations. 
Among the longest-waiting sufferers under the NHS are men with hernias and women with varicose veins. 
The Minister's problem will be covered very shortly- 
Others on the list are those for hysterectomies, tonsillectomies, eye conditions and piles. 
These poor people are being asked to wait because of the crumbling state of the health system in England. The article continues: 
Ear, nose and throat operations in some hospitals have a 2-year waiting list. A Kent child waited 4 years for one. 
An arthritic person from East London has been kept waiting 3 years for a hospital admittance. In that time his condition has confined him to a wheel chair. 'We receive hundreds of letters from people absolutely dejected at the long, long wait for their operations,' said a spokeswoman for the Patients' Association. 'We are continually protesting to the Department of Health about the appalling time lag and the everincreasing waiting list of NHS patients.' 
Sent home 
Hospitals are trying their best to cope with the ever-increasing NHS queue. 
Patients who used to stay up to 10 days following an operation are now being sent home after two to three days. 
Need I go on? Yet the Minister, this socialist is prescribing for this nation this system as a formula to rid Australia of its problems in the field of health care. As a Queenslander I protest to the Minister, who regrettably will be the only ALP spokesman from my State to speak in this debate today. It is noticeable that every time we have a health debate in this Parliament the Australian Labor Party members from Queensland remain silent. They hide behind the Minister. They know what is going on is not good. I shall read to the Minister another extract from a recent document. It is a letter from the advertising agents of the Australian Labor Party sent to the Queensland Central Executive. It states: ... the State of Queensland is a most parochial State, and it is vital that in Federal campaigns they are fought on parochial issues. This does not mean that some light centralised campaign should not be waged from the South, but I'm sure the National Health issue in 1972 and rural problems, inflation and a number of other issues were positive proof that these matters had to be told at a State level in Queensland language, in the May 1974 campaign. 
What is Queensland language, might I ask? The Minister has said that the National Health Bill will mean that Queenslanders ultimately will get an extra S34m a year for health care. Yet if we do calculations on the amount of extra tax to be paid by persons within that State to finance this scheme we find that the extra revenue derived from Queensland taxpayers is equivalent to about $34m. The Minister will give us absolutely nothing; he will simply give us back the extra he will take out of our pockets. No wonder Queenslanders view the present Government with suspicion and a complete lack of trust. I ask the Minister to come clean on this issue, as a fellow Queenslander, a man who was born in a part of my electorate, to tell the people what is in store for them. The Minister parades around the rest of the country saying that the system will be good for the people, but he is excessively quiet when it comes to his home State. 
I ask him again to come forward when he gets the opportunity to speak and tell us what is in store. I do not regard myself as a representative of the doctors in this place. They have their barrows to push. But the question I ask is: If the Australian Labor Party were implementing legislation in any other field which caused as much concern within the work force involved in that particular industry, would it go ahead prepared to face the disruption which could be caused? I would say no. The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, my namesake here, would quickly talk to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or any other relevant Minister and say: 'You are not going to do this because obviously there is a great degree of reluctance to accept it on the part of the people involved in this industry'. Yet the vast majority of doctors do not want a bar of the Minister's stinking system. Nevertheless the Minister is trying to thrust it upon them whether they like it or not. 
The patients? The polls throughout Australia indicate that some 56 per cent at least of patients, if my memory serves me correctly, do not want anything to do with the Government's health scheme. In conclusion, because I know the Government wants to get this Bill through and the Minister wants an opportunity to speak, I add only a few more remarks to this speech. The health scheme of the previous Government needed some more attention, but it was not so bad that it needed to be completely overturned and destroyed. 
When one looks at the actions of the Minister for Social Security in recent months one sees that he is starving out the various nursing homes. He has refused to increase the subsidy so that he can make as many of them as possible financially unviable. This is what the Minister is trying to do here. He knows darned well that in the near future with the rocketing costs which have beset this country since the present Government came to power his scheme will require the injection of millions of dollars more than he ever talks about or predicts. I say to the Minister for Social Security: Just because you will succeed with a joint sitting next week, do not take this as the green light to move this nation along the path of madness and of no return. I ask the Minister to recognise that what we have had in the past has been beneficial. The great majority of Australians have been well served. Only a small percentage of the community required perhaps the genius which the Minister has brought to the Parliament. Only a little more effort was required to involve them without destroying everything which has stood in a proven way - with weaknesses - for years past. I remind the Minister of what is happening in Great Britain today. If, in the next few months, the Minister succeeds with his health scheme what is happening in Britain is likely to be the fate which awaits Australians in the future. 
I rise tonight to reply to a tirade of abuse which came from the Government side of this House on both Wednesday and Thursday nights of last week. On those occasions I presented certain accusations and allegations about the way the Government was allocating various facilities to members of the Parliament. The response I received on the first night was the tirade which I have already alluded to and the response on the second night was a rather weak explanation. Regrettably, the final speech which was made on Thursday night came from the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  Certain accusations which were again made have forced me into a position in which I have no alternative but to rise again on this rather unpleasant subject. If honourable members look at page 622 of the Hansard record for Wednesday 24 July 1974 when I first made allegations about favouritism displayed by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is seated at the table, towards members of the Australian Labor Party in marginal seats when allocating secretarial assistance they will recall these words which the Minister used: 
I do not allocate secretaries to people; my Department does it. 
What a pathetic man the Minister turns out to be when he is under fire. Year in and year out he acts as the court jester but the moment he is found out he hides behind the Department he administers and the people in that Department. He told the House an untruth because  Senator Marriott  of Tasmania rang him well before the election and complained that the entire secretarial typing pool in Tasmania had been allocated to the Australian Labor Party. It is not for me to bring out in this Parliament the details of the conversation because no doubt there was a degree of privacy involved. The other night the Minister claimed that he had no knowledge whatsoever and this in itself shows that the Minister was not being completely frank with the Parliament. In that same speech on 24 July the Minister claimed he had never been consulted in respect of the allocation of office space in Brisbane. He said: 
I have never been consulted about the allocation of rooms in Brisbane. 
But the following night, as is recorded at page 727 of Hansard, he said: 
Subsequently and after the allocation of space the Honourable Kevin Cairns wrote to me about the allocation of the office to  Senator Milliner  and seeking information concerning the normal principles observed in allocation. I have written to him . . . 
The previous night the Minister had the audacity to stand up in this place, looking lily-white and disclaiming any knowledge whatsoever of the allegations and accusations that I had made. The Minister's credibility makes President Nixon look like the fabled Eva Peron. 
I will go back further in time and refer to Liberal members who obtained assistance from the Minister's Department. No matter what the Minister says, he is responsible for what happens in his Department. He cannot hide behind clerks and junior officers who have no way of replying in this Parliament.  Senator Lillico,  an aged senator who retired, came from Tasmania. He needed additional assistance to help him wind up his office affairs after having been in public life since the 1940s and a senator since the late 1950s. In South Australia 2 men who became members of this Parliament on the same day as I did in 1966 witnessed the blatant misuse of political power, but they were not prepared to display the same patience and tolerance as I did. They started before the election and demanded rights equal to those which had been given to the ALP members who had been allocated the relieving typing pool to help them in their bid for re-election. They moved after they saw that the ALP member* had the pool sewn up.  Senator Jessop  said to me: 1 had to roar like a bull to get help.' The other person, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  said: T spoke to some peanut and I had to put on quite a performance. It was begrudgingly given.' It turned out that in Queensland, Western Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and in Tasmania - with the exception of the retiring aged  Senator Lillico  - the relieving typing pools were made available to the members of the ALP. We are supposed to believe that this happened just by chance. The same thing would have happened in South Australia except for the outspokenness displayed by the honourable member for Boothby and  Senator Jessop  and their preparedness to stand up for their rights. 
I will very briefly refer to the debate the other night because there is insufficient time tonight to go into detail. The speech that the honourable member for Bowman made was as despicable as that which was made by the Minister who raved on about a woman who used to be my secretary. I can tell the Minister that when this lady retired she was in her early 60s and well and truly a grandmother. As far as the Minister's accusations are concerned, he did her an injustice when he claimed on Wednesday night that she was going to oppose me for pre-selection. That is the worst possible form of disloyalty to a member. Although we did not agree on all occasions it is intolerable that she should be left with this stigma because of character assassination by the Minister.  His  claim that she had given a lifetime of service- 

 - Mr Speaker, I also seek the indulgence of the Chair to make a similar plea. I was in the Library basement earlier and I apparently missed a division because I did not hear the bells. Could a similar check be made in that place? 
 Mr Speaker,  you do not need to be reminded, because you are the man who always chairs the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, that on a number of nights in the last couple of weeks a battle has been waged between the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and me. Mine has been a battle to extract truth and to ascertain facts. Regrettably, on each and every occasion, the answer I have received has been simply a tirade of abuse. Last night I was supported toy the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who is the shadow Minister for Services and Property. I hope that the Minister will recognise that we on this side of the House regard the matter that has been raised as serious and that he will not treat it as a flippant issue. 
Last night the Minister presented to the House a sheet containing certain details of the use made of the secretarial pool toy various honourable members. What I want to point out now is that that sheet, which I agreed to have incorporated in Hansard, covered the period since the inception of the system which the Minister generously and kindly introduced initially. The period in which I am interested is the 3 weeks prior to the election. Would the Minister mind listening? Apparently he does not want to listen. I hope that question No. 853 on page 1003 of the notice paper is answered quickly because the answer to it will provide the details we seek. If I am proved wrong and favouritism has not been exercised towards members of the present Government Party I will be the first to stand up here and say that I am sorry. But if I am proved correct - I hope that the Minister does not let this question remain on the notice paper month after month - I hope that he will recognise that he must accept responsibility for what goes on within his Department. It is not satisfactory for him to stand up in this place and say: 'I do not interest myself in such matters'. It is his duty to ensure that his Department administers fairness to both Government and Opposition members. 
I repeat a comment which I made much earlier - abuse will get nobody anywhere. If the Minister thinks that he can intimidate me by saying that I will not get secretarial assistance in the future or by casting nasty reflections upon my breeding - to use his words - and that that will silence me, he is wrong. I work to a very simple rule. If I believe something is wrong and I have done my work to check it out to ensure that I am not incorrectly implicating anybody, I will pursue the issue until the end no matter what might be hurled at me or said about me. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  referred to our friend and colleague,  Senator Withers.  I think  Senator Withers  is a very lucky man to have the benefit of having had the opportunity to talk to his father and learn some of the antics of the Australian Labor Party. He knew his dad. From listening to the supporters of the present Government speaking on this Bill today one would gain the impression that they believe that they have a monopoly or concern for democracy. I can assure all honourable senators and members that this is not so, and that the LiberalCountry Party coalition Opposition feels just as strongly about what must be preserved in the interests of democracy as does any other member of this Parliament. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  glibly repeats the phrase 'one vote one value '. To me one vote one value means just that. But the moment the Minister refers to a 10 per cent variation, that is the end of one vote one value. He cannot have it every way. If we are to have one vote one value, that is it. On 13 March 1 973 the Minister said: 
Exact equality in the number of electors per division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable. 
That conflicts completely with the many speeches that we have heard him make in this place since unfortunately he was elevated to the Ministry and given the portfolio which is responsible for electoral matters. It is a hollow cry. 
Frequently members in this Parliament allude to the 1968 redistribution. I speak as the member for Griffith, which is on the southern side of the Brisbane River. My electorate was given a greater percentage loading than any other electorate in Australia. Figures supplied by the Minister indicate that there was a loading of 16.08 per cent in the electorate of Griffith. The reason that was done was that the population in parts of my electorate in the South Brisbane area in Griffith is fast diminishing. One of the reasons why we have had this 20 per cent variation in the quota is to allow for changes in the population in electorates. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  this morning referred to the fact that his electorate has 6,000 more voters than does the electorate of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who is the Minister responsible for this legislation. In 1968 the electorate of Grayndler exceeded the quota by more than 1 4 per cent. But the electorate of Grayndler, like the electorate of Griffith, has gone through a phase of dying in numbers of voters. 
The preservation of our democracy is possibly the greatest responsibility which lies in the hands of the members of the Parliament. For threequarters of a century this nation has survived as one of the minority of countries throughout the world which have not suffered from upheaval as a result of revolution or an attempt at armed overthrow of the Government. We are regarded as one of the stable nations of the world because all previous governments in this country have respected our democratic institution, our electoral boundaries and our electoral system. 
Redistributions have taken place in 1912, 1922, 1934, 1948, 1955 and 1968. But the Minister for Services and Property is proposing in this present legislation that the people of Australia be subjected to a redistribution every few months as population changes come about. My friend, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric 
Robinson), who is from the Gold Coast of Queensland, represents an electorate which in number of voters is fast approaching the 100,000 mark. This increase in the number of voters has come about because of the growth that is taking place in his electorate; it has not come about because of some gerrymander by the LiberalCountry Party coalition in 1968. It has come about because so many people have moved out of the electorate of Grayndler and have gone to live in McPherson because they know that they will be better represented. Furthermore, if the Minister is successful in having this legislation approved by the Joint Sitting he will immediately look at the 1972 election results; he will look at the electorate of Bowman and at all of those other electorates which Labor is just holding by a whisker, and he will suddenly start bolstering those electorates which need attention so that when the onslaught comes from the Australian people at the next election those people who represent these electorates will have a greater chance of continuing in office. It is for this reason and this reason alone that this legislation has been put to the Joint Sitting. The Labor Government is keen to see this legislation approved by the Joint Sitting so that it can manipulate the electoral boundaries for its own electoral gain. 
A claim that past elections have been unfair cannot be substantiated. There have been 11 elections since 1949, and in 10 out of 1 1 cases the Government of the day has gained a greater percentage of the vote than has the Opposition. 
-Say that again. 
-Government supporters say 'Nonsense' and 'Rubbish'. It is obvious that Government supporters today are voting like mushrooms; they have been kept in the dark and they do not know the historical facts. In 1949 the then Liberal-Country Party coalition beat the Labor Party by2 per cent of the vote; in 195 1, by 2 per cent; and in 1954,I admit, the Australian Labor Party beat our vote by 4 per cent. (Government supporters interjecting)- 
-All right, Government supporters think they are smart because they have drawn my attention to an error. But that happened under the Calwell ALP redistribution of 1948. That was not a gerrymander by the Liberal-Country Party coalition. In 1955 members of the present Opposition, when in government, beat the Labor Party by 2 per cent, in 1958 by 12percent,in 1961 by  2Vi  per cent, in 1 963 by 7 per cent, in 1 966 by 1 7 per cent, and in 1969 by 2 per cent. In 1972 the Labor Party beat the Government of the day by approximately 3 per cent. In 1974 the Australian Labor Party's vote slipped back and it beat us by 2.3 per cent. Democracy will never be perfect. That the ALP gained power in 1972 with 49.71 per cent of the vote and held power in 1974 with 49.3 per cent of the vote indicates that the system is not as the Government attempts to make it out to be and is not loaded against the ALP Government as it would like the people to believe. 
After an electoral Bill leaves the Parliament the main responsibility is in the hands of the Commissioners. I believe that the Chief Electoral Officer and the Electoral Officers in each State have shown, by the results in the past 2V4 decades, that they have been men who have taken notice of the need to preserve our democracy. If we send our democracy down the drain we are losing everything in this country. I have also discovered lately a well-concealed and connived plan by the Minister. In the not too distant future he intends to change the Electoral Act to alter the requirement that the Surveyor-General of each State be appointed as a redistribution commissioner so that a registered surveyor may be appointed. I shall tell the Joint Sitting the name of one man who is a registered surveyor in Queensland- none other than the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Clem Jones. Can you imagine what he will do to me in Griffith if the Minister gives him one of the jobs for the boys and makes him one of the redistribution commissioners? He will do to me what I did to him at the last election. 
I would remind the Joint Sitting that Labor has had one change in redistribution, and that was in Western Australia. It needed only 11 more votes in one seat in that State, as my friend the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  can confirm, and it would have won 60 per cent of the seats on 46 per cent of the State vote. In summary, the Minister is trying to impose on this country a system which is not in use in any other country. All other countries- France, the United States, Canada and others- have a special loading. I remind the Joint Sitting of the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when speaking to an electoral Bill on 2 June 1955. He said: 
That principle is to ensure that every electorate shall have approximately the same number of electors, so that the votes of all of the electors shall be equal in value. At least, the numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent above or below the quota as allowed by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Professor David Butler of Oxford University in a book called 'The Canberra Model' said: 
Redistribution excites a lot of innuendo but by world standards, or even by some state standards, federal gerrymandering has been negligible; even with a country leading . . . 
Overseas political students who come to our country have stated that Australia is a fair, honest and open country so far as the drawings of the boundaries of Federal electorates are concerned. In essence, that preserves the democracy which allows the honourable member for Grayndler, with all his weaknesses, to come into this place and to promote and propose legislation which is to the detriment of the people. 
My electorate is a city electorate. Having listened to Government supporters today one would think that members of the Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party who represent far-flung corners of this great nation have no special problems. I can assure members, as one who has travelled extensively throughout Australia, that country members, regardless of their political affiliation, have special difficulties which members who represent city electorates do not share. 
The Minister for Services and Property might look at his watch; that is all he cares about. But I am speaking about the people in Queensland and people in far-flung areas. In conclusion I sincerely hope that, when this legislation has passed this Parliament and finally goes to the Electoral Commissioners to be implemented in the redistribution of the electoral boundaries of this nation, they recognise the tremendous need to preserve the democracy which we have followed for three-quarters of a century under both nonLabor and Labor governments. I thank the House. 
That the proposed law, namely the Commonwealth Electoral Act (No. 2) 1973, be affirmed. 
Pursuant to rule 1 1 the Joint Sitting will divide. Ring the bells. 
Question put. 
The Joint Sitting divided. (The Chairman-Hon. J. F. Cope) 
I wish to raise a matter of privilege. 
I cannot hear you,  Sir. 

 -Mr Speaker- Oh, I am sorry. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I refer to Erskine May's 'Parliamentary Practice', 18th edition, page 144, under the title 'Obstructing Members of Either House in the Discharge of Their Duty' and a later reference to the molestation of members while in the execution of their duties. Three or four days ago members of Parliament were advised by you that the Parliament would be sitting today. We were also advised through our Whips' offices that there would be an airline strike from midnight last night until midnight tonight. For this reason all members of the Parliament endeavoured to be in Canberra last night. In Brisbane myself and seven Liberal and Country Party colleagues were confronted with a situation at the Brisbane airport where neither Trans Australia Airlines nor Ansett planes were departing for Canberra or Sydney. As a result of this, and the likely delays and our concern that we would not be here for the meeting of the Parliament we rang the transport officer in Canberra, who advised us later that the Minister now at the table, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  had denied us special transport considerations. I then rang him, out of concern that eight members of this Parliament would not be able to be present. Eight members were being stopped from being present. I rang him personally and asked him in view of all the industrial strife presently with us in Australia if he would consider giving us 2 hire cars, if necessary, to take the party from Sydney to Canberra. The Minister has indulged in this conduct of contempt of the Parliament under the heading of molestation of members while in the execution of their duty because he refused the eight of us any consideration in relation to special transport being made available to get us here. I know that this afternoon a great number of us are returning on VIP flights. The section of May's 'Parliamentary Practice' to which I draw your attention is on page 144. It says: 
The Commons, on 1 2 April 1 733 and the Lords on 1 7 May 1763, resolved, 'That the assaulting, insulting or menacing any Member of this House in his coming to or going from the House, or upon the account of his behaviour in Parliament, is an high infringement of the privilege of this House, a most outrageous and dangerous violation of the rights of Parliament and an high crime and misdemeanour'; and on 6 June 1 780 the Commons resolved, 'That it is a gross breach of the privilege of this House for any person to obstruct and insult the Members of this House in the coming to, or going from, the House . . . 
-We were placed in a situation - 
I will. I am sorry that in your mind,  Mr Speaker,  I have not come to the crunch yet. I remind the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  that the Government was able to supply a VIP aircraft to take the young Russian violinist to Singapore. I cannot see why special concessions cannot be extended to us. 
What I am saying is that we were obstructed from getting here because we did not know where we were going, what time we were going to reach there or anything. We telephoned a request that, if necessary, cars be supplied to take us from Sydney to Canberra. Eventually we arrived in Sydney at about a quarter to ten. We were unsure, because of the industrial strife which presently racks this country, what tomorrow held. At that late hour we- 8 responsible members- decided that because the Minister would not help us we would put in the extra money ourselves and hire a car. The problem was that when we telephoned for hire cars we were told that one could not have one at the drop of a hat; one had to give more notice. Fortunately we were lucky. One car arrived at Canberra at 3.40 a.m. and the other at 4 a.m. The point is that, if because of the lateness of our arrival in Sydney no hire cars had been available, the Minister for Services and Property would have been a party to obstructing 8 Queenslanders from arriving for this sitting. Therefore, I suggest that he has committed a breach of privilege and is guilty of contempt. 
I do not wish to indulge in personalities. The fondness that the Minister for Services and Property holds for me is recognised and well known by all. It is reciprocated in our mutual admiration society. But the fact is that because of malice, bitchiness and smallmindedness his mind was clouded with small issues which prevented him from seeing the main issue; that is, the importance of ensuring that members who have been summoned to attend Parliament are able to arrive in time for the sittings. It is all right for him to stand up and to say from his Party's point of view that all the Labor Party members are here. But they had special information and knowledge. This is indicated by the fact that all except 2 Labor Party members were stopped from going overseas. I believe that one travelled to Noumea and was brought back. Further, they were told to come to Canberra on Wednesday night. Members of the Opposition did not foresee any situation such as that which occurred again yesterday. Otherwise, we in the Liberal and Country Party teams would have come to Canberra in the same way as members of the Labor Party did. 
We were told by the news services that there would be industrial strife in the airlines from midnight last night until midnight tonight. We all know that tonight we are going home in VIP aircraft because of industrial strife. It is impossible for members of this Parliament, or any Australian citizens, to predict with certainty what will happen next in Australia when 43,000 people have been on strike every single working day so far this year. I believe that in view of the situation the Minister should have extended this consideration to us. But instead he said no. My colleagues, the honourable members for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  Ryan  (Mr Drury),  Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  and Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  were stopped from getting here. 
Let me refer to another case. My friends, the honourable member for Baker  (Dr Forbes)  and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  from South Australia, also are not with us today. The Minister for Services and Property has carried on frequently about the fact that Opposition members are not here and has said that this is an indication that they do not care. The fact is that in Adelaide last night the airlines offered only one seat on an aircraft to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who is the Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Boothby and the honourable member for Barker. Therefore those 3 honourable members had to make a decision as to which of them would take that seat. This is a further example of obstruction in preventing members from attending this Parliament. I hope that in the next few days when you consider the point I have raised,  Mr Speaker,  you will recognise that the Minister for Services and Property has perhaps unconsciously- he has done it whether consciously or not- created a situation which constitutes a breach and contempt of the privileges of this Parliament. I know that you are a fair man and I know that you realise that I am a member of the Privileges Committee. If I did not believe that what I have stated constitutes a contempt of the parliamentary system I would not have bothered to raise this very vexed question. I am pleased that my 7 colleagues who travelled with me from Brisbane were conscientious enough in the middle of the night to make a decision to come to Canberra knowing that we would be arriving as the sun was rising. We made that decision because we have a duty to be here despite the obstructions which might be placed in front of us. 
-Under standing order 951 move: 
That this is a matter of privilege for your consideration. 
I regard these across the board increases in many of the areas of postal charges as being an exercise of deceit by the Government. Government members have stated today that the charge for posting an ordinary letter has not been altered for some time. Yet last year the Government reduced the weight of letters which could be posted at standard rate by some 25 per cent. The weight was reduced from 28 grams to 20 grams. So the public was hit hard there. The Government also introduced a system under which, if a letter weighed more than 20 grams, it would cost 15c to post. So the public was belted there. A few short weeks ago, the Government attempted to introduce an increased charge of 9c for a standard rate letter. Previously, the "charge had been 7c for such a letter. The Senate, rightly or wrongly- I am not coming into that argumentrejected the increase. It was a move that pleased me. I post many letters. I thought that in these rather difficult days at least that was one small saving. But the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  has used the Budget to increase the postage cost for a standard rate letter to 10c. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who is not present in the House, expressed the view today that members of the Parliament speak in relation to unpopular measures according to the side of the Parliament on which they sit. I reject that. I can recall that, a few short years back when I occupied a seat on the side of the Parliament now occupied by the present Government,  Sir Alan  Hulme, the then Postmaster-General, increased the postage rate for a standard rate letter from 5c to 7c. At that time, I made the plea that there was a need for a giant investigation into the Australian Post Office and I said that the government of the day, which was composed of my Party, could no longer look forward or take for granted my support when initiating such large increases. Yet today there has been an increase of nearly 50 per cent in the cost of posting a lousy letter.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I say to you and to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table that it is no use to the people of Australia for different governments, regardless of their political colour, to continue along the road of just increasing postal charges. 
I am quite certain that a comparison of postal costs in this country with those in other countries shows us up in a bad light. In fact, it costs only 14c Australian to send a half ounce letter from the United States of America to Australia. But if the same letter is posted from Australia to the United States in one of the post boxes of the present Postmaster-General, a person will pay 35c for the equivalent service. That difference cannot be explained away simply by saying that there is a greater volume of mail in the United States. That is not good enough. It is time that we came to grips with our entire system and gave it a good shake, if necessary. It is no use saying that we will upset some people in the Post Office, let us forget about it for that reason; don't push it under the carpet and slug the public once again. The public cannot continue to carry the impositions which are being thrust upon it by the present Government. I know that the Minister will say that the Post Office will lose so many millions of dollars this year. He will ask me whether I am suggesting that the Government should not spend money in some emotive area to make up for the losses in the Post Office. He will talk about child care or paralysed people and ask: 'Are you suggesting that we do not spend money in that area?' But if one looks at what is being ripped out of the Australian taxpayers' pockets in the form of taxation compared with the amount the Government has derived from that source over other years, one can see that the Government has more than enough money to withstand some temporary losses until such time as the recommendations contained in the report of the expensive Commission that was set up to investigate the affairs of the Post Office are implemented. 
I was elected to this Parliament in 1966 and took my seat in 1967. In the financial year 1966-67, the amount paid in income tax by Australians was less than $2,000m. In a few short years that amount has increased to $8,000m. If we take income tax as a percentage of Budget outlays, we find that when I entered this Parliament income tax was 32.4 per cent of total Budget outlays. It has now risen to 48 per cent. Just how much more can each Australian- pensioners, workers and others- be expected to pay? This Government is slowly strangling the initiative of every working Australian. Whichever way he or she turns, he or she has to meet the cost of some Government scheme or service which is inefficient. I believe that the Australian Post Office is a most inefficient organisation. 
In this cognate debate, together with increases in postal charges, we are considering legislation to authorise the introduction by the Government of a courier service. This proposal should not simply be welcomed with open arms. The Government says: 'This is being done privately. We are now going to do it too'. The reason that private courier services have developed over the years is that they provide a more efficient approach to the job of delivering mail. The Special Minister of State may say that they only service needs in cities and that the Australian Post Office has, for example, to carry letters from Perth to Innisfail in North Queensland and that such services cost more. The fact is that these small courier services have met a need and are more efficient and far less costly. What is this Government to do about them? It is to set up a similar organisation. I ask the Minister whether the Government has in mind for the future a scheme to forbid private enterprise entering or continuing in this area? 
We have seen the way in which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has set out systematically to destroy nursing homes. In the next two or three weeks in my home city of Brisbane 2,000 people are likely to be affected because 23 nursing homes in Brisbane will be forced to close unless there is an increase in the subsidy paid to maintain people in those homes. Just as this socialist Government is causing that situation, is it looking at the introduction of legislation to force private courier services out of business in order to give the Government a monopoly in this area? Once a monopoly is established, we are on the road once again to a most inefficient organisation. 
I have promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I will not take too much time of the Parliament in this debate today. But I do hope that notwithstanding its political colour, the Government will have the courage to recognise that a great deal has to be done with respect to the Australian Post Office. The stage has been reached, in a few short years, where a 5c stamp has almost become a collectors' item. The way the Government is going, in allowing inflation to run, I intend to keep my 10c stamps because, again in a few short years, they will be in short supply. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON The honourable member for Bowman asks whether I am going to send any Christmas cards this year. The answer is yes. But, regrettably, his name will have to come off my list as I must effect some saving somewhere. I conclude with a very strong plea to the Special Minister of State that he does not continue to adopt the system of introducing further increases in charges simply to get the Government out of trouble. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What are the names and Party affiliations of all Members and Senators who were allocated extra secretarial assistance at Government expense during the period 29 April 1974 to 17 May 1974, what were the dates that each of those persons requested the extra help, and for how long was it given to each of them. 
Did  Senator Marriott  complain to him, at least 2 weeks prior to the election date, and then to the Departmental officer, that in Tasmania the entire pool had been allocated to members of the Australian Labor Party. 
Will he provide a copy of the directions to Members of Parliament in which advice as to the availability and terms of use of extra secretarial assistance was given; if not, why not. 
What date was the advice sent out 
Were some Opposition Members in South Australia refused extra help which brought about an angry reaction from two of these Members. 
As a result of this reaction, is it a fact that the South Australia relieving pool had to be reallocated and members of the pool withdrawn from Members of the Australian Labor Party. 
Excluding any permanent arrangements for extra secretarial assistance at appointed times, what were the total extra man hours given by way of extra assistance to- 
Members or Senators of the Australian Labor Party, 
Members or Senators of the Australian Country Party, 
Members or Senators of the Liberal Party of Australia, and 
Senators of the Democratic Labor Party. 
Were certain members refused assistance; if so, who were they, and what was the Party affiliation of each. 
In which States was extra was extra help given only to ALP Members. 
10) Did he deny any knowledge of the foregoing in a speech on Wednesday, 24 July 1 974; if so, why. 
It is my intention to raise in the House this evening a section of a report presented to the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party on 25 June 1974. The report was prepared by the Campaign Director,  Mr Bart  Lourigan. I do so at a time when the Government Party- the Australian Labor Party- has just purchased a large holding in television station Channel 7. Stories are floating around everywhere that the Party which cries poor is out to buy its way into so many other areas of the media. I wish to refer to  Mr Lourigan  's report on talk back programs. It is for everyone's sake that I will read the section which relates to that subject. I do so because the Australian Labor Party, through its activities and through its efforts to stifle freedom of speech and democracy, is setting out to reduce to nothing more than a farce and a laugh the talk back programs in which people ring radio stations. The extract from  Mr Lourigan  's report headed 'Talk Back Programs' reads: 
At its first meeting, the Central Campaign Committee - 
Meaning of Queenslandresolved  to give attention to talk back programs, and empowered the State Campaign Director to organise an effective means of combating obvious anti-Labor propaganda. 
That is, of combating statements by others which might be truthful but which are also hurtful. The report continues: 
A meeting of 20 women under the organisational control of  Mrs J.  A. Vaughan was convened. It was agreed that  Mrs Vaughan  work from the QCE office, monitoring all programs and arranging participants in the sessions when not only the Labor Government but also the trade union movement came under fire.  Mr Fred  Whitby and other union officials assisted in this counter-attack on our political opponents. 
This strategy met with success throughout the campaign, to the extent that in the final weeks, former QCE Press Officer, Jack Stanaway was employed by the National Campaign Committee to co-ordinate the activity on a full time basis. 
The QCE office went one step further and arranged for each of the seventeen Ministers who visited the State to participate in a talk back program or in a T.V. session. Indeed, Cabinet Ministers have since extended their congratulations that in this particular activity, Queensland was far ahead of other States. 
One aspect which caused considerable concern in relation to talk back programs was the viciousness of the smear campaign waged by individuals attempting to discredit the A.L.P. and its policies. 
If only we could have the time over again all listeners would able to recognise that the forecasts of doom that were made at that time as to what would happen to Australia in relation to inflation and unemployment, and what was said about the promises of tax reductions, were correct and not simply smear campaigns by the Opposition. The report continues: 
I advised  Dr Coombs  of defamatory allegations against him on radio station 4BH. Acting on legal advice we forced a public apology and retraction from both the station and Ivor Hancock, the compere. 
Can honourable members visualise the darling of thousands of Brisbane's listeners  Mr Ivor  Hancock, being painted by  Mr Lourigan  as a villain? The report continues: 
On another occasion, Mick Young - 
Now the honourable member for Port Adelaide- was called a communist on no fewer than 4 occasions in the one session. It is clear that the Labor movement in general must counter these scurrilous attacks on its credibility and on the integrity of individuals. 
I have raised this matter in this chamber tonight to inform the whole nation that the Australian Labor Party is making a complete farce out of the ring-in programs which are conducted from one side of the continent to the other. How ofter have we heard some so-called  Mrs Housewife  ringing in and saying 'Dear Ivor' or 'Dear  Mr Laws,  what do you think of the way in which  Mr Snedden  did this or  Mr Snedden  did that?' and  Mr Hancock  or  Mr Laws  saying: 'It is quite reasonable', only to find some Australian Labor Party trained trades hall stooge saying certain things and making suggestions which cloud the issue in an attempt to distract the minds of the Australian people from the real destruction which is going on within our community today? I appeal to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  as the representative in this chamber of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)-  I apologise for not having advised him that I was going to speak on this subject tonight but I notice that he has come into the chamber because of the nature of the accusations that have been made- to intervene in this matter and to stop his own Party from manipulating and twisting the media, as this admission by none other than the Queensland Campaign Director,  Mr Bart  Lourigan, indicates. 
I wish now to lay on the table an official complaint. We are told that television stations and radio stations are to accept all advertising and that political bias is not to be shown. In the 1972 election campaign, because I am a man who has no particular bias about where he places his advertising, I placed my radio advertising with 4KQ, the Labor controlled radio station in Brisbane. Because I never rose much before a quarter to five in the morning during the 1972 campaign I never heard the advertisement but I heard from some friends who come from electorates represented by members of the Australian Country Party that it was played during the hours in which dairy farmers were up looking after their cattle and milking their cows. It was put on so early in the breakfast program that hardly anyone except the dairy farmers was awake. But in the last election campaign 4KQ, the Labor controlled radio station, refused to have anything to do with my advertising. I do not know whether it was because of the nature of the advertising. It had imagination and the result of the voting in Griffith at the last election indicates that it had a great deal of appeal. The words of one song, which went to the tune of 'Waltzing Matilda', were as follows: 
Once a Labor Lord Mayor ran for Federal Parliament, He tried to take Don Cameron 's seat; But the electors of Griffith want to change the government, 
Cameron is Liberal and he won 't be beat. 
And so it went on to the verse of that tune. But the station would not accept that advertisement or any of the others I had. I believe that that was grossly unfair because, on the serious side, licences for radio and television stations are necessarily restricted. There is only so much space on the band and only so many listeners in each city. If we have a situation in which the Labor Party owns the media, I do not believe that it has any right to discriminate between advertisers. A station has to accept all advertisements. The more I think of the comments of my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr 
Kevin Cairns), who said that all political parties should get out of the media, the more I realise how much sense he made. It is high time the Labor Party moved out of the area of propaganda and out of the area of strangling free thought and handed over the running of the media to people who are going to be responsible in their presentations and who will accept the advertisements of all people. This afternoon the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  referred to the fact that the skies are filled with aeroplanes leaving Queensland with farmers for the farmers' meeting. The people of Queensland have had indications of unfairness and were not at all happy. 
During the latter part of July and the early part of August I raised in this House a question referring to the administration of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  That question related to what I believe to be an unfair distribution of extra secretarial help to Government supporters prior to the 1974 elections at the expense of fairness to members on all sides of this House. Hansard of 24 July 1974 records on pages 619 to 621 my initial speech, and that night the Minister, as recorded on pages 621 to 623, made his initial answer. Shortly after that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  expressed a concern that he felt. The Minister again spoke on 25 July 1974 as recorded on pages 725 to 727. I followed him and my speech is recorded on pages 727 to 729. On 31 July 1974 I spoke again, as recorded on pages 9 13 to 914. On 1 August  Mr Daly  spoke, as recorded on pages 1026, 1027 and 1028.  Mr McLeay,  the honourable member for Boothby, followed him as recorded on pages 1030 and 1031.I spoke again on 2 August, as recorded on pages 1097 and 1098. Following that I placed on notice question No. 853, directed to the Minister. This is the text of the question: 
What are the names and Party affiliations of all members and senators who were allocated extra secretarial assistance at Government expense during the period 29 April 1974 to 17 May 1974, what were the dates that each of those persons requested the extra help, and for how long was it given to each of them. 
Did  Senator Marriott  complain to him, at least 2 weeks prior to the election date, and then to the Departmental officer, that in Tasmania the entire pool had been allocated to members of the Australian Labor Party. 
Will he provide a copy of the directions to members of Parliament in which advice as to the availability and terms of use of extra secretarial assistance was given; if not, why not. 
What date was the advice sent out. 
Were some Opposition members in South Australia refused extra help which brought about an angry reaction from two of these members. 
As a result of this reaction, is it a fact that the South Australia relieving pool had to be reallocated and members of the pool withdrawn from members of the Australian Labor Party. 
Excluding any permanent arrangements for extra secretarial assistance at appointed times, what were the total extra man hours given by way of extra assistance to- 
Members or senators of the Australian Labor Party, 
Members or senators of the Australian Country Party, 
Members or senators of the Liberal Party of Australia, and 
Senators of the Democratic Labor Party. 
Were certain members refused assistance; if so, who were they, and what was the Party affiliation of each. 
In which States was extra help given only to ALP members. 
Did he deny any knowledge of the foregoing in a speech on Wednesday, 24 July 1974; if so, why. 
The Minister answered eventually in these terms: 
I refer the honourable member to the statements made by me on the adjournment of the House relating to his accusations in relation to the abovementioned matters, vide Hansard: 
Hansard 24 July 1 974, page 62 1 ; 
Hansard 25 July 1974, pages 725 to 727; 
Hansard 1 August 1974, pages 1026 to 1028. 
So much for open government. It is a lot of bunkum. In closing this matter I make a plea to the Minister to recognise that what happened at that time was not right. The Minister simply says that he who puts in his order first gets first claim. On that principle I could immediately put in an order, because  Mr Bob  Hawke has given notice that there will be an election next April. This matter can be politically exploited at public expense. I believe that the Government gave members of the Australian Labor Party a bonus of at least $7,000 in extra secretarial assistance during the campaign. It is only fair in the name of democracy that a system be devised to ensure that all get a fair crack of the whip and the arrangement is not exploited. 
For a number of days now I have been endeavouring to get the call of the Chair during question time. It is a sad reflection on the way the Parliament is running down that during some 7 weeks of sitting I have not been able to get a second call. A lot of honourable members on my side have suffered similarly. It is regretted that this has the effect of silencing democracy. The question I have been wanting to ask for days is one that would be directed at the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The question I have been seeking to ask him is: Is the Minister aware that the continuation of the present formula for determining the subsidy rate to be paid - 
-The reason I have not been able to get the call is that Ministers, such as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who interrupted me, are not prepared to make statements in the Parliament and let the House debate matters. The question I have been intending to ask is: Is the Minister aware that the continuation of the present formula for determining the subsidy rate to be paid to pensioners resident in nursing homes has been rendered useless by the economic vandalism perpetrated by the present Government? Is the Minister aware that his deliberate procrastination in reviewing the rate is causing such havoc in Queensland that there is a strong likelihood 2,000 aged sick in Brisbane alone could be without nursing home care within a matter of weeks? Is the Minister aware that nursing staff recognise the situation is so critical they have voluntarily forgone salary increases to try to save the system from collapse and destruction? I was going to finalise that question by asking- I know it would have been in order Will the Minister, even if only in the name of compassion for the aged and sick, cease forthwith his ruthless, callous political vendetta towards private nursing homes which provide a definite service and recognise inflation is no fault of the people and raise the subsidy immediately to enable these unfortunate pensioners to pay fees which will enable the homes to continue and stay open? 
Last Thursday my friend the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  asked a question on this subject and got a most unsatisfactory answer in which the Minister tried to blame everybody from the previous Government to the State governments. The fact is that the inflation which we have witnessed under the Labor Government has become the root evil of many problems in Australia. Contrary to the views of the Minister, there is a heavy cost in administering nursing homes which are not returning great profits. In fact they have reached the stage where they are losing money. One nursing home in my electorate has 104 patients to look after and these require a staff of one hundred. It has reached the stage now where salary increases have risen so dramatically lately that it is costing that home an extra $4,900 each fortnight to meet its wages bill. This is just one example from the many homes in Brisbane and in Queensland. I believe it is an established fact that charitable nursing homes are probably the cheapest to run, private nursing homes are the next in cost and government-run homes are the most expensive. The Minister, because of his attitude towards national health, has indicated a desire for nationalisation or socialisation of everything to do with health. He is hell bent on closing every private nursing home not only in Queensland but also throughout Australia. 
A former Minister for Social Services agrees with me as do all members on this side of the House. The present Minister has a thing about private nursing homes. Opposition members freely acknowledge that in Australia there were some nursing homes which did not do the right thing. A small handul of homes could be categorised as exploiters but because there is one bad apple in a case it does not follow that one tips out the entire case. One simply picks out the rotten apple and if the remainder are all right one leaves them be. The facts are that these nursing homes are providing a vital service for our aged sick pensioners. The Minister's attitude borders on complete callousness. I have letters from relatives of and even some of the very sick people in these homes pleading with me: 'Please,  Mr Cameron,  what can be done to stop this man? Where are we going to go if the homes are forced to close?' 
There is no joking about this matter. The homes in Queensland have reached the stage where they are on the brink of closing unless the sun rises with the promise of more financial assistance to the people living in those homes. In his reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Wide Bay the other day the Minister said that it would be wise for members on this side of the House to reflect upon this matter because they may one day return to government and would then be aware of the cost involved. A return of a Liberal-Country Party government would mean the return of some semblence of order in the economy. Nursing homes functioned well previously and I believe that under a Liberal-Country Party government they would again so function. One thing is certain; if the Minister continues along his present path there will not be many homes left to look after. The regrettable fact is that as well motivated as he may be, he is hurrying to the grave many of these people through their sheer worry and concern for tomorrow. None of us in this Parliament has the right to take upon himself such an attitude. The Minister is playing politics. He has a thing about nursing homes. I would ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to allow me to incorporate in Hansard 3 short letters from a couple of groups of matrons of these homes. They indicate that I am not here as a lobbyist for those who own private nursing homes; rather I speak on behalf of those affected. I seek leave. 
-That is unfortunate. I believed that another honourable member would precede me in this debate but I got the call and did not have time to show the Minister the letters. One letter appeared in the 'Courier-Mail ' of 24 September, another is dated 26 September, and the third, dated 30 September appeared in the 'Letters to the Editor' column of the 'Courier-Mail'. The last letter was headed: 'Matrons: We speak for our patients'. I will start reading it now in the little time I have left It states: 
In reply to the Social Security Minister,  Mr Hayden,  we the matrons, wish to declare that we are in fact not the spokesmen for the private enterprise nursing homes, but are speaking on.behalf of our patients. 
This is the crux of the matter They are speaking for the elderly sick people. The letter continues: 

 Mr Hayden must be aware the patient subsidy helps the patients, not the nursing homes, therefore an inadequate subsidy hurts the patients, not the nursing homes. 
My time has nearly expired. I reiterate my plea to the Minister for Social Security to discontinue his procrastination and his political vendetta against yet another form of private enterprise and to recognise that on this occasion it is not simply a matter of shareholders who are being affected but rather aged and sick people. I do not believe that he really knows what he is doing. He appears at times to be a man of compassion, but, at the moment, he is forcing many of these people to an early grave. 
I endorse the comments of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate. Every time the surf life saving movement holds an art union in Queensland and sends me tickets I have no hesitation in buying an entire book of tickets and sending the money back because I recognise the great job that it is doing. 
I have risen to speak on a subject of real concern at the moment to the people of my State of Queensland. I refer to an article in the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of Saturday, 14 September, headed 'Queensland 's aged are worried sick'. It states: 
Four thousand sick age pensioners in Queensland are living beyond their means. 
The article goes on to talk about the plight of those persons who are living in nursing homes. I spoke on this subject in the adjournment debate on Tuesday night. I have endeavoured for some days to get the call during question time because this is a subject which I believe the Government and the Minister for Social Security are not facing in as responsible a manner as they should. For the record, we have in Australia some 54,420 beds accomodating people in nursing homes. In Queensland as at 30 June this year we had 8,340 beds. There are 2,192 State beds and 6,148 nongovernment beds. Those people who read the Queensland Press could not help but be aware of the concern which is being expressed in all directions in my State. There have been a number of letters to the editor in the Brisbane 'Courier Mail'- letters from matrons, from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  a fellow Queenslander, and then a reply from the matrons, as well as a number of articles. The stage is fast being reached where because of the reluctance or refusal of the Minister to review the rate of subsidy paid to the pensioners many elderly people who are in no fit condition to do so might be faced with no alternative but to get out because they simply cannot afford the fees which are necessary to keep these nursing homes viable. 
In 1972 the previous Government introduced a fee system or a standard weekly fee to assist persons in the various States. I know that the Minister will tell the House that it was a Liberal Government which introduced a system which had a variance of application in the amount of fee for each State. We readily concede that that is true, but a lot of things have happened in Australia since 1972. The economic stability that we previously knew is but a memory. Even in the last election campaign the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the Fitzroy Town Hall on 1 May 1974 said this: 
The nursing home benefit rates introduced in January 1973 have been steadily eroded by increasing costs incurred by nursing homes. These costs have risen at a rate faster than living costs generally in the community. This has meant that, notwithstanding generous increases in pension rates, only a small proportion of patients are now adequately protected by nursing home benefits. 
A little further on in his speech when referring to increases he said: 
We promise urgent action on this matter. 
The Minister for Social Security said that: 'We promise urgent action on this matter.' I ask the Minister at the table if I could incorporate those 3 letters to the editor and the extract from the speech in Melbourne of the Minister for Social Security. 
('COURIER MAIL', 24 SEPTEMBER 1974) 
As matrons of some of the most up to date nursing homes in Australia, we are dismayed and disgusted by the attitude of the Social Security Minister  (Mr Hayden),  towards patients in Queensland nursing homes. 
Queensland patients obtain the lowest subsidy for any State in Australia. The only reason  Mr Hayden  gives is that Queensland has a lower standard of care and accommodation. 
This is absolute nonsense. We nine matrons, who between us have 214 years of nursing experience, have nursed in several other States and we affirm categorically that our standard in Qeeensland is unsurpassed by any other State. 

 Mr Hayden is, of course, disadvantaged by lack of firsthand information.  Mr Hayden,  we and our nursing colleagues would welcome you up-dating your information by visiting for the first time one or more of our nine nursing homes so your comments on the Queensland nursing homes would be more accurate. 
We also wish to stress we comply with your Commonwealth standards, both as to accommodation and care, so see no reason for your attack on State standards generally. 
This letter is signed by the matrons of the nursing centres named.- Matron Griffiths (Annerley); Matron Hay (Broadbeach); Matron Cornwell (Bundaberg); Acting Matron Watson (Huntingtower); Matron Gilbank (Jindalee); Matron Barnard (Labrador); Matron Hughson (Mermaid Beach); Matron Perry (Mt Gravatt); Matron Lewald (Toowoomba). 
('COURIER MAIL', 26 SEPTEMBER 1974) 
MINISTER'S REPLY 
I am surprised and disappointed that a group of matrons from profit-making nursing homes should misunderstand my simple statement about nursing home standards set by State Governments (C-M Letters, 24 September). 
It is an incontrovertible fact that standards set by the Queensland Government are not as demanding as in some other States, such as Victoria. i have said on a number of occasions that Queensland standards are good. But the standards of staffing and facilities imposed by other States are more extensive and therefore more costly for the homes in those States. 
The matrons would know that the Queensland benefit rates are based, to a large degree, on their approved fee structures. 
They would also know that their fee structure, which is lower in Queensland than other States, was drawn up by the previous Coalition Government. 
No one has criticised the standards of care in Queensland. 
If the spokesman and spokeswomen for the profit-making homes were to stop their carping and petty personal jibes and were prepared to submit a proper case in support of higher bed day subsidies, I would be only too glad to consider their claims. 
I think the public would have noticed that I have refrained from reciprocating some of the nasty personal comments from people who claim to represent the profit-making homes. 
Perhaps now they will produce a submission which would justify the Government increasing the taxpayers' alreadyhigh commitment to supporting profit-making enterprises. Bill Hayden, MP, Minister for Social Security. 
('COURIER MAIL', 30 SEPTEMBER 1974) 
In reply to the Social Security Minister,  Mr Hayden  (C-M, 26 September) we, the Matrons, wish to declare that we are in fact not the spokesmen for the private enterprise nursing homes, but are speaking on behalf of our patients. 

 Mr Hayden must be aware the patient subsidy helps the patients, not the nursing homes, therefore an inadequate subsidy hurts the patients, not the nursing homes.  [Mr Hayden  said (C-M Letters, 26 September) he was surprised and disappointed that group of matrons from profit-making nursing homes should misunderstand his earlier statement about nursing home standards set by the State Governments. If the spokesman and spokeswomen for the profit-making homes were to stop their carping and petty personal jibes and were prepared to submit a proper case in support  or  higher bed day subsidies, he would be only too glad to consider their claims.] Currently in our ten nursing centres all Tweed Heads pensioners are retaining a portion of their pension, but this does not apply to a single Queensland pensioner. 
To stress this point, the average patient contribution for our 797 Queensland patients is $88.90 per fortnight, and for our 79 Tweed Heads patients $54.60 per fortnight. 
This means on top of their pension of $62, Queensland patients have to find an average of $26.90 per fortnight, whilst the Tweed Heads patients retain $7.40 for the same period, a difference of $34.30 per fortnight. 
The figures are calculated from the following: Average fortnightly patient contribution for each nursing home: Annerley (118 patients) $90.30; Broadbeach (93) $84.55; Bundaberg (59) $91.06; Huntingtower (75) $85.09; Jindalee (93) $91.17; Labrador (69) $84.85; Mermaid Beach (64) $83.30; Mt Gravatt (148) $96.96; Toowoomba (78) $84.31; Tweed Heads (79) $54.60. 
We do wish to stress that without staff assistance 352 of our patients cannot afford these fees for any prolonged period. 

 Mr Hayden: Please come to the assistance of patients immediately, so there is no longer the need for us to continue with our 'carping', and this will prevent the need for our staff to continue with their present patient subsidy scheme. 
Matron Griffiths (Annerley Nursing Centre), Matron Hay (Broadbeach Nursing Centre), Sr West-Oram (for Matron Cornwell, Bundaberg Nursing Centre), Acting-matron Watson (Huntingtower Nursing Centre), Matron Gilbank (Jindalee Nursing Centre), Matron Barnard (Labrador Nursing Centre), Matron Hughson (Mermaid Beach Nursing Centre), Matron Perry (Mt Gravatt Nursing Centre), Sr Phelan (for Matron Lewald, Toowoomba Nursing Centre). 
NURSING HOME BENEFITS 
Another of our new initiatives announced by the Prime Minister was that we will be increasing the level of Australian Government assistance for nursing home patients. When we came to power in 1972 we inherited from the previous Government proposals for new nursing home benefits arrangements that were authorised by the National Health Act 1 972 for implementation from January of 1 973. 
As a responsible Government we proceeded with those arrangements but improvements are needed and we have been working towards both long-term and short term changes. In the short-term we have concentrated our review on the position of patients, giving particular attention to the equitability of the amounts to be paid by patients towards meeting their nursing home fees and to the position of homes conducted by religious and charitable organisations. 
The nursing home benefit rates introduced in January 1973 have been steadily eroded by increasing costs incurred by nursing homes. These costs have risen at a rate faster than living costs generally in the community. This has meant that, notwithstanding generous increases in pension rates, only a small proportion of patients are now adequately protected by nursing home benefits. 
In reviewing the levels of benefits to be paid we will seek to establish a situation whereby pensioners, in the great majority of cases retain $4 per week from their pensions and supplementary assistance to spend their personal needs. 
A survey of nursing home fees conducted by my Department showed that after allowing for patient contributions based on the standard pension rate, benefits would have to be increased by the following amounts if the substantial majority of patients are to be adequately protected: New South Wales $5.60 a week; Victoria $18.20; Queensland $2.80; South Australia $13.30; Western Australia $3.50 and Tasmania $1.40. We will therefore increase nursing home benefits by these amounts. 
We recognise, of course, that further increases in nursing home costs may occur before legislation authorising increases in these benefits can be passed. We will review the benefit needs of patients closer to the time the increases will be introduced so that all increases in costs that occur can be taken into account. We promise urgent action on this matter. 
The rates of increases in benefits I have just mentioned are based on present nursing home costs and would involve additional Government expenditure of approximately $6m in 1974-75 in respect of Pensioner Medical Service pensioner patients. 
Hospital benefit funds will be expected to increase their benefits by similar amounts for nursing home patients who are insured and the extra cost to the hospital benefits funds is estimated at $ 1.5m annually. There would be no necessity to increase hospital benefits contributions in the short-term. 
I thank the House.  Mr Speaker,  if I may return to the rates, and keeping the words of the Minister in mind, the figures show that from January 1972 the subsidy paid in Queensland consisted of a basic benefit of $24.50 plus, an additional benefit of $10.50. We have reached the stage where the basic benefit paid in Queensland is still $24.50 but the additional benefit has gone up by only $6.10 a week. It would be dishonest of me not to mention the fact that the patient's contribution by virtue of pension increases has also risen in that time by $5 a week. But in the Minister's own words, the cost of administering these homes has risen at a rate faster than living costs generally in the community. We have now reached the stage where hundreds upon hundreds of elderly people cannot meet the fees being set by the nursing homes to enable the nursing homes to remain open. 
Despite the answer given by the Acting Prime Minister this morning to a question when he told us we are doing so well, we have reached the stage where the nursing staffs in many of these homes in Queensland have recognised that the homes are being driven into the ground and if these homes close the patients will have to be thrown out into the streets. The nursing staffs have recognised that this is an emergency and they have voluntarily forgone salary increases because they know that the homes simply cannot afford to pay the new salary rates. If the homes are forced to pay those salary rates they are going to have to close. 
I make a plea to the Minister to cast aside his prejudices, to forget about the fact that there- are and have been a handful of nursing homes who have been, to use a fairly classic but expressive word, unethical. Do not paint every nongovernment or private nursing home as being an exploiter. As I said the other night, if you find a rotten apple in the case you do not necessarily tip out the entire case, but that is what the Minister is doing. He would dearly like to see the day arrive when there is no one other than charitable or government institutions involved in the care of the aged; but what he fails to recognise is that private nursing homes have supplied in the past a most necessary service. We have some 54,000 persons in nursing homes and 80 per cent of these are in non-government homes. The figures speak for themselves. A little compassion, even if only for the sake of the sick and the aged, is very much needed at this time. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide) ( 1 1 ^^Government assistance to nursing homes is recognised as a very live issue and the form of politics in Australia is such that it is inevitable that the Opposition would make a lot of capital out of a very serious situation. I know it is serious. The very best nursing home in South Australia is in my electorate, the one that gives the highest degree of service in the way of rehabilitation. It is the Walkerville Nursing Home. Because it is giving so much more and therefore costing so much more it is in serious financial trouble. Unfortunately, at the present time the circumstances are such that the 79 patients at the home will have to be moved elsewhere on 1 1 October unless some further help can be given. 
All I can say at this stage is that I believe some further help will be given very shortly, and that an announcement will definitely be made within the next 10 days, despite the fact that the Australian Labor Government has given a lot of additional help, from memory amounting to $26m of taxpayers' funds, dating from as recently as 1 
August. However I am also hoping that when the extra help is given- I repeat that I believe an announcement will be made within 10 days- that there will be a contraction as between the States in the amount paid. At the moment, of course, South Australia and Queensland deserve greater amounts per bed day than do some of the other States, which have a margin which was introduced by the previous Government. If these margins are deserved, it will be the job of the State governments to see that the necessary funds are available for those margins. If my expectations are achieved, I hope that my own State of South Australia and the State of Queensland will be particularly favoured by a Government announcement. 
I think it is only proper to point out that the Government has agreed as from 1 January next to cover the deficits of all the religious and charitable nursing homes in Australia. I have heard from very experienced administrators in this field that they are extremely pleased with the plan being put forward and discussed right now for the take-over by the Commonwealth Government of the deficits of these wonderful institutions. So it is not as though the Australian Labor Government is ignoring a tremendously great problem in our country. I anticipate, I believe correctly, that further announcements will be made shortly. I am one who asked questions about this matter as recently as last week. The seeds sown by me and a lot of my colleagues on the Government side of the House- and I will not neglect to mention those on the other side who have also been drawing attention, as is their duty, to a particular problem in this country- are not falling on stony ground. 
I rose in this debate to talk about my grievance, which is that political capital is being made out of a disaster which is not the responsibility of the Australian Government in any way. I am referring to the very tragic situation in Cyprus, which is causing a lot of worry and grievance not only to Greek people, particularly Greek Cypriots, but also to people in the Turkish community in this country. My grievance is against the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who is from my State. He has made political capital by releasing a statement to the Press. I am not aware that any newspaper in Australia took up this Press release because of its scurrilous nature, but apparently because the newspapers did not take it up the honourable member distributed it in the Greek clubs. In my electorate of Adelaide there are a number of these Greek clubs, and these fine citizens from Cyprus and Greece have drawn my attention to the statement by the honourable member for Boothby. Let me read some of it. The opening sentences read: 
The present Federal Government appears to have no concern for the feelings of the Australian Greek Community over the plight of war victims in Cyprus. 
The Greek Community in Australia is striving to raise more than Sim for the relief of the people of Cyprus but the Government can do no better than send a miserable $50,000 to the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
The Whitlam Government . . . can only manage $50,000 for the 200,000 war victims on Cyprus ... 40c per person. 
And so it goes on in this vein. Let us just learn what are the facts about the Australian Government's help for the Greek people in Cyprus- indeed for all the victims in Cyprus. There is no substance whatsoever in the accusation that Australia's contribution to the relief of Cyprus victims was miserable and ignored the sentiments of the Greek community. Australia was amongst the first 7 countries to contribute emergency relief to Cyprus. Moreover, its donation of $50,000 was exceeded at the time it was made by only 3 other donors. Further, this amount by no means represents the total of our contributions towards helping to find a solution to the problems of Cyprus. Australia's contribution to the peace-keeping force for Cyprus, for instance, is presently running at $450,000 per annum. That figure includes, of course, the cost of maintaining the Australian contingent. 
The Australian Labor Government's contribution is most generous when compared with emergency relief grants for similar cases which were made in the last years of the LiberalCountry Party Government. For example, the disastrous earthquakes which caused a great loss of life and extensive damage in Peru in 1 970 attracted only $15,000 from Australia. This contribution, of course, was in the time of the Liberal-Country Party Government. The flood disasters in Romania in the same year led to a grant of only $5,000 from Australia. The serious Philippines floods in mid- 1972 before the Labor Government took office, led to a grant of $20,000 from the Government at that time. 
Australian assistance to Cyprus has by no means ended. The peace-keeping force mission is continuing and Australia will probably contribute to the relief of refugees through the United Nations High Commission for Refugees' program which has not yet been fully worked out. Also, it was announced in the Senate and it has been announced in many other forms- in telegrams to me, for instance- that tremendous help will be given to private citizens in Australia by Australia's national airline, Qantas Airways 
Ltd, in sending goods- food and clothingcollected in Australia by fine citizens, both of Greek background and of other origins, for the relief of the distressed people in Cyprus. I refer to a telegram sent to me only last week by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  which reads: 
Following my request Qantas have agreed to assist in transport of relief supplies to Cyprus and will carry supplies free of charge on a space available basis on its scheduled services. Goods will be taken off at most convenient point probably Athens. Onward movement of supplies to Cyprus will be responsibility of community leaders in Australia. 
I interpose to say that this is already being organised. 
National committees for relief supplies for Cyprus are located in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne and it is through these committees that transport arrangements with Qantas are to be made. 
I draw the attention of the House and the people of Australia to the number of refugees in Cyprus. This information has been supplied by the Cypriot communities of Australia. They have divided the needs of the refugees into the various centres- -Kakopetria, Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Paphos. There are 191,309 people who are in need, and of that number nearly 160,000 need food. I also have some statistics about the number who need shelter. Any citizens in Australia who can donate sleeping bags, bed sheets, face towels, children's wear, knitting wool or any other commodities like these can contact the Cypriot communities in Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney, who have details of the great needs of the Cypriot refugees. As I said, the Australian Government is helping through Qantas to supply these goods via Athens to the people in need in Cyprus. The raising of an issue like this as though nothing had been done about it is a despicable way of conducting politics in Australia. I deplore it and I grieve about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Commonwealth meat inspectors, grade 1, receive a salary of $7,804 per annum and that grade 1 meat inspectors employed by the Governments of Queensland and New South Wales receive $9,377 and $8,346 per annum respectively. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the dissatisfaction that exists within the ranks of Commonwealth meat inspectors because of the existent differences. 
If the position is as stated, what action is being taken to bridge the gap. 
I am at a complete loss to understand how the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  can stand up here and say that Government expenditure does not contribute to inflation. In supporting the amendment moved to the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  which is virtually the blue print for throwing out the entire Budget, I would suggest that members of the Opposition cannot justifiably be painted by Government members as simply knockers, because we all know on this side of the House that Government members are going through stages of contortions and screaming loudly about certain aspects of the Budget and living in fear of what might happen to them at the next election. I only wish that I could go to the Australian Labor Party's Caucus meeting tomorrow morning as an observer and watch the performance of members as they try to reverse some of the decisions which have been handed down in this Budget of disaster. 
Before I go on to talk about the Budget in general terms I want to make reference to the state of the economy and the manner in which it has affected the largest single industry in my Federal electorate of Griffith on the south side of Brisbane. I refer to the operations of Evans Deakin Industries Pty Ltd, which since 1946 has built some 82 ships. We have reached the stage, after 18 to 20 months of Labor Government, at which Evans Deakin has announced the end of conventional shipbuilding. It will build no more ships. The company built ships from 1946 to 1974. After the Labor Government was returned in the recent election Evans Deakin made the decision that it could no longer carry on. Regrettably it follows in the footsteps of the Adelaide Ship Construction company in South Australia and Walkers Ltd at Maryborough in the electorate of Wide Bay in Queensland. What a shabby performance. How can any honourable member on the Government side stand in this place, bearing in mind that unemployment in this country afflicts well nigh on 200,000 people and that we have seen industry closing down everywhere, and read speeches telling us how well the present Government is doing and that we are simply not understanding what is going on. A lot of people are not understanding what is going on. Regrettably a lot of people in Melbourne and Sydney at the last Federal election on 18 May did not see the writing on the wall. It took the people of Western Australia and Queensland, where a strong anti-Government vote was recorded, to show the way. I feel confident that in the next election the representation of the party which presently forms the Government will virtually be halved as the people of Australia pass judgment on the performance of the present Government. 
Let me return to the subject of Evans Deakin. Last Thursday week a Queensland member on the Government side asked a Dorothy Dix question of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  related to Evans Deakin. The Minister in his answer referred to shipbuilding in Australia and said: 
For example, 71 vessels are on order or under construction, compared with about 39 in December 1972. 
Let us look at the vessels which comprise the figure of 7 1 which the Minister used in an effort to show what a great job the Government is doing. Eight vessels have been ordered from the Whyalla shipyards of Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, which usually manufactures its own ships. Five have been ordered from the State Dockyard at Newcastle. An oil rig is being built by Transfield (Western Australia) Pty Ltd and an oil rig is being built by Evans Deakin. That is a long way from 7 1. Let us look at the rest. There are 56 fishing boats- fishing boats, mind you- of less than 150 feet. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry had the audacity to stand in this chamber last Thursday week and claim that those fishing boats are vessels which are being built in Australia in an attempt to indicate that the Governing is doing a far greater job than in previous years. 
-The honourable member says that it is a modern navy. I call it our fishing fleet. Of that fifty-six, I remind the House that forty-six are of less than 100 feet. I have friends in Brisbane who have rowing boats of 14 feet. I hope that the Minister does not learn of them because he will start including their little rowing boats in his figures on Australian shipping tonnage. This is what he is doing. He is claiming that fishing boats are in fact big ships, and he is trying to give the Parliament and the people of Australia the impression that the Government is doing a great job. The people of South Australia employed by the Adelaide shipbuilding company, the people employed by Walkers Ltd in the electorate where the previous Federal Labor member lost his seat and the people who work for Evans Deakin in Queensland are not easily fooled. 
The Government's policy on shipbuilding is such that Australia is finding it difficult to compete. If the Government expects Australian workers to compete against nations where workers receive less in 6 weeks than an Aus.tralian receives in one week, it is time the Labor Ministry set an example of competitiveness and started eating a bowl of rice at each meal. The caviar Cabinet would not do that but it expects it of the work force. Regrettably the way this country is going Australian workers could well be working in the paddy fields in the not too distant future. Evans Deakin is a place of particular tragedy. During the last couple of years the workers and the management negotiated agreements and arrangements which completely eliminated the industrial strife which wracks other industries throughout Australia. A viable working relationship was established. Management and the work force were co-operating. This is a situation for which the whole nation yearns but because of the Government's policies those advances are kaput. It will be the end of Evans Deakin, the end of Walkers and the end of the Adelaide shipbuilding company. We have reached the stage in 20 months where the Labor Government has managed to close half the shipbunding yards of Australia. That is not a bad effort by a party which only 20 months ago was saying: 'It's Time'. 
In the 'Australian Financial Review' of 2 April 1974 was an article tided 'Shipbuilding policy overturned'. That article reported that one of the results of policy changes was that the Newcastle State Dockyard would now build two 25,000 ton bulk carriers for the Australian National Line at a considerably lower price than originally submitted by the dockyard. Will someone in this Parliament explain to me what is a tender because my understanding is that people are allowed to submit tenders, the tenders are examined and a judgment is made of those tenders? Not always the lowest tenderer is successful. On this occasion the dockyard in the electorate of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  was given a chance to re-tender. Have we reached the stage in Australia where if a company or an industry in a Labor Minister's electorate submits a tender price above that of a company outside that electorate, the company in the Minister's electorate will be given another bite at the cherry? I believe this is completely contrary - 
I do not like using words like 'corrupt' but I should like to see the establishment of an inquiry to investigate what happened earlier this year in relation to these 2 ships. An industry is closing in my electorate and several hundreds of workers will be affected. Residents of the city of Maryborough have been affected as have employees of the Adelaide company. It is high time this open Government opened its books so that the people of Australia and  Her  Majesty's Opposition can see what is going on. 
Many of those people who voted for Labor in the last elections now realise 4 months later that the situation has grown so bad in Australia that we have had to drastically curtail the immigration program started after the Second World War by a previous Labor Government. I wonder what the former right honourable member for Melbourne, the late Arthur Calwell, would say if he could speak now. Since the commencement of that program about 2.5 million migrants have come to Australia. They were encouraged and helped to come here. They sought opportunities and found them in Australia yet we are now incapable of providing an opportunity for those who will leave our schools in November. There are still among us those honourable members who will assure us that 'Gough is going great'. Prosperity cannot be maintained by penalising the thrifty; the weak cannot be assisted if the strong are destroyed and the employee cannot be helped if the employer is destroyed. 
Only 3 weeks ago in Townsville  Mr Whitlam  claimed that his Government would continue with the program of what he called a balanced and selective attack on inflation in which the burden falls on those best able to carry the load. He makes it sound like the Melbourne Cup. What he fails to recognise is that we are fast running out of people able to carry the lead bags. This year's race could be the most disastrous in 4 decades. The Mainline, Leyland and Cambridge Credit companies have gone lame because of the Whitlam - Cairns remedies to chaos they themselves have created. The Australian Labor Party promised a wonderful working relationship with the trade union movement. The marriage is on the rocks. Less than a fortnight ago  Mr Hawke  conceded that Mainline was a victim of union anarchy. Had I said that 2 weeks and 2 days ago I would have been accused of being a union basher yet  Mr Hawke  had the courage and the guts to come out and indicate some of the problems that unions are creating for Australia. A situation has been created wherein a glib tongued union official can convince others that wage fixation institutions are unable to keep abreast of the rampant inflation and that strike and anarchy are the only remedies. It is time we examined the reasons for this situation. It has arisen because of the performance of the present Government and its irresponsible attitude to the economy. I freely concede that the ALP Government has done some things that I should have liked to have seen done by the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition. I congratulate it for those things, but on the whole they have been minor matters. The important things which keep a nation going have been destroyed. 
Adverting to union problems, we now have such people as  Mr Arch  Bevis, the boss of the transport workers in Queensland, coming out and saying that bombastic union officials who force strikes on members are irresponsible. We have  Mr Hawke  with his comments about the Mainline company. We have the Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  awakening to the fact that all is not black and white. The arch enemy of the employer has suddenly realised that the roots from whence he came are not all lily-white. He has decried and deplored the actions of the maritime unions in standing over the shipowners and demanding graft and payments which they have no entitlement to receive. He also backed the Queensland ALP  President,  who is also Federal ALP Vice-President,  Mr Jack  Egerton, who recently had the courage to condemn the actions of the unions. Even in my own electorate of Griffith, where thousands of meat workers employed at the Brisbane abattoirs have suffered as a result of lost wages, he made it clear that he would not apologise for an attack he made last month on Australian Meat Industry Employees Union officials, and in fact described that particular industrial strike as the greatest tragedy of the trade union movement. 
It is time we came to grips with the trade union movement. The Liberals did better than the Labor Party but, granted, our handling of the unions left a lot to be desired. The present Government's handling of the unions has been a destructive debacle which has been like putting petrol on the fires of inflation in this country. The Government has set out to curtail the activities of business through the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Act. Surely it is time for a display of much needed courage and the implementation of legislation to make legal strike action for certain reasons but to declare it illegal in other areas. A ludicrous situation has existed- I am not sure whether it has been cleared up in the last few days, in which if the P and O company, which has a vessel in Melbourne, does not come good with the money to make up the difference between the payments for people employed on English vessels and those employed on the Australian coast, its vessel will lie in port until its hulk rust away. Action such as that should be forbidden by law. Actions by which trade unions drag into their hands the role of deciding whether Government decisionsLabor or Liberal- are right or wrong are also evil and wrong. 
The present Government claims that the Senate is obstructionist. If it was fair it would come out and say that the trade union movement has been its greatest enemy. The Government would unshackle itself from some of this needless harassment which affects every working man and woman in this country and would step in with legislation with the same boldness which the Government has displayed in 'bringing to heel'- I put those 3 words in inverted commasthe manufacturers, the industrialists, the foreign corporations and so many others in an attempt to bring about orderly marketing. It is time we did something to bring to heel the trade union movement because we have reached a stage where unionists recognise that there are unionists who are disruptive.  Dr J.  F. Cairns, in his book in 1972 titled 'The Quiet Revolution', stated: 
Revolution in an advanced capitalist country can become a possibility only if there is a serious economic crisis. 
I conclude my contribution to the Budget debate by saying that the Labor Government has created that serious economic crisis and that there are some people in the trade union movement with political beliefs of a communist philosophy who are exploiting it to the utmost to bring about that quiet revolution and to destroy free enterprise in this country so that a climate is created where ALP socialism will be the only alternative because private enterprise will no longer be. 
Having listened to the plea of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  I should like to remind the Government that one day it will be back on this side of the chamber so while it is in the position to rearrange question time it should utilise that chance. My Party was in government for 23 years and it suited us for 2V4 decades to persist with question time as it exists today. Undoubtedly he who is in government has the numbers and has the game sewn up and he who sits in Opposition wallows in squalor. Since the last elections this is the tenth parliamentary sitting week and I still have had only one call at question time. My colleague, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  is shaking his head. I do not know whether he has had even one call at question time. The system is all wrong and regrettably many Ministers in this Government, as in former governments, use question time to spill propaganda out to the masses. They do not have the courage to make a statement and are not prepared to face a subsequent debate on it. 
We have heard comments about the running of this Parliament. If any businessman conducted a fish shop with the efficiency with which we face the task of administering the nation he would go broke as quickly as we are all going broke under the present Labor Party Government. I do not necessarily blame the Parliament for what is happening in Australia today but if the electors of Australia realised how inefficient an organisation was this House, they would squirm with horror. With today's means of rapid communication- with the local member only a telephone call away- an increasing burden is imposed on members. When the previous Government was in office mail deliveries were more frequent but even now a person can write to his member and receive a reply within a few days. As a result the work confronting a member makes his task more difficult. 
I know that I have fought with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  as I have fought with no other man, especially on a matter which I will not raise today, but I give him credit for having made more advances than any other Minister in the provision of facilities to members of this Parliament. My friend, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  from Western Australia reflected on the difficulties of members. I came to the Parliament in 1966 and in those 8 years I can reflect on vast improvements which have been made, but the position still is not good enough. A member is granted one electoral secretary but thanks to the Minister, when a member is overburdened he can obtain the services of another secretary if he is lucky and the relieving pool is not snowed under. As an individual I am not worried by the amount of work which comes in because if I cannot answer a letter today, tomorrow or next week, it has to wait, but the regrettable fact is that democracy in Australia is slowly grinding to a halt. The excessive burden of work on members results in members spending more of their time in Canberra working on electorate matters and this is where damage results. Legislation is introduced but there is less time for members to examine the ultimate ramifications of that legislation. Legislation which has the effect of changing an entire life style sneaks through or passes this House with only a cursory glance because members do not have time to give it the study it deserves. 
I promised the Leader of the House that my contribution would be short and sweet. Despite the degree of illwill which he bore me earlier this year I ask him to keep going with facilities the way he has been going because he has been doing a pretty good job. He is more realistic in his approach than has been any other Minister I have known with his powers. I know that he sat in Opposition for 23 years. He knew what it was like to have very little. He is now in government and has a chance to do something. I advise him to do it fast because I have the feeling that after the next elections he might be back in Opposition and, unfortunately, I have not seen too many glimmers of hope from this side of the House which would indicate that when we are returned to government there will be a continuation of the progressive outlook in respect of facilities for members that we have seen in the last 18 to 20 months. 
It was not my intention to speak during this debate. However this afternoon we saw the introduction of some fairly shallow red herrings which were drawn across the trail. Perhaps the most provocative speech of all was that which was made by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  who told us where the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  travelled in the last couple of years.  His  speech sounded more like a travelogue or someone calling out the ports of call of Pan American Airlines. Only last Sunday an article of mine appeared in the 'Sunday Sun', the Brisbane Sunday newspaper, which I concluded by saying that I was one who normally did not get too. excited about Prime Ministerial or ministerial trips. But what I am starting to get excited about of late is the Prime Minister's tremendous sense of timing.  His  last trip of 17 days duration was staged at a time when the nation was yearning for leadership. It was staged at a time when the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was up with Mao Tse-tung and was visiting Peking and Hanoi If honourable members care to name any places in that region, the  Deputy  Prime Minister would have visited them. Our No. I man visited the United States of America, Norfolk Island, Fiji, Honolulu, Niagara Falls and Nashville on his visit overseas. It is a wonder that he did not stay for a country and western show when he was in Nashville after he had seen the Greek exhibition which was the purpose of his visiting that city. 
I come back to the point that I was making. The Prime Minister's sense of timing is completely out. Last January and February supporters of the Government were vocal in their criticism of the Prime Minister because he made a trip to Indonesia at a time when this country was in the middle of the greatest disaster ever to confront it, namely the floods in Brisbane and Queensland. As the water rose so did the Prime Minister. He went off to Indonesia. He left us all behind. He could not care less. He has no sense of proportion. I do not really mind the Prime Minister taking trips but he should take them only when the country does not need a Prime Minister to be in Australia 
If ever we needed a man prepared to come to grips with the problems of this nation it is right now. The Prime Minister came back to this Parliament and told us that he was in touch every day. Is he trying to tell me that a direct telex link was connected between Niagara Falls and Canberra? The honourable member for Phillip who spoke a few minutes ago was one of those who tried to reverse the Prime Minister's decision in the Caucus room yesterday. Yet tonight he is defending the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister was interviewed on the NBC program 'Meet the Press' while he was in the United States. This program was staged at 5 o'clock in the morning. The only people who are watching television at 5 o'clock in the morning are policemen, the women they are locking up, and milkmen. During the interview at that time in the morning the Prime Minister was asked a question by  Mr Brandon,  who is the Washington correspondent of the 'London Sunday Times'.  Mr Brandon  put the question: 
There is a strong group on the left of you,  Mr Prime  Minister, in the Cabinet - 
That is an understatement. It is known right around the world- and I gather in the Party Caucus - 
We could not say that the honourable member for Phillip was one of those- that sometimes it is very difficult for you to control, and I was wondering whether there is a danger that they might oust you. 
The Prime Minister answered- and get on to this: 
They would be cutting their own throats. 
Well, what a pompous man he is. The Prime Minister said that they would be cutting their own throats. 
I am not distorting it. I will keep going. The Prime Minister having made this pompous cut and dried statement sat back with his usual smug attitude. Then Brandon asked: 
Why would they be cutting their own throats? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
Well, I- you come from England, don't you? 
Brandon replied: 
Yes. 
The Prime Minister then went on to tell the panel: 
Well, you know perfectly well that this is the stockintrade of any criticism of any Labor Government- that it is faction ridden, that the right and the left are at arms length and the Leader is about to topple; well, it doesn't 't apply. 
This is another falsehood. Labor has so many troubles I think that the Prime Minister travels overseas to get away from it all. He does not go away because he feels that he is a great ambassador for this nation but he wants to get away from all the problems. 
The honourable member for Phillip made a nasty comment about the honourable members for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  in regard to charter nights they had made. These members who come from the bush chartered flights to get them to Canberra or to the main cities where they could connect with other flights. The honourable member for Gippsland spent in the vicinity of $9,000 when he was a Minister and the honourable member for Gwydir, $5,000. If we are to be small minded about this, let us compare their expenditures with the expenditures of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's expenditure in 1974 for tripping around was $137,939. As fas as I am concerned this is a legitimate expenditure but if we are going to be small minded men on these matters let us present both sides of the story. 
I simply conclude this telling contribution to this debate by saying to the Prime Minister: We do not mind you going away but make your trips at times when we are not in trouble. Everybody knows that at the moment inflation is reaching record proportions. Let us reflect on this: When we went out of power there were 2 1 other nations in the world which had a worse inflation rate than Australia. Since the Labor Government came to trouble- I meant to say 'power' but these 2 words are synonymous- our inflation rate has soared to such an extent that only seven or eight other countries have a worse inflation rate than Australia. That is not a bad record for people who thought it was time. 
The other point I want to make is that unemployment in this country is now in excess of 150,000 people. It is time to tighten belts, not to grandstand in the United Nations, at Niagara Falls or at Nashville, Tennessee. Only when this country gets back on its feet will a Prime Minister, no matter from which party he may come, be entitled to say: 'I am going abroad'. I do not notice this country being beseiged by visits from other national leaders to the same extent as our Prime Minister goes overseas. I know that  Mr Tanaka  will be visiting Australia in a week's time and that the Shah of Iran has visited this country. Sure, they are big men. But have we had return visits by the  President  of the United States? We have not had such visits because the Australian Labor Party and in particular the  Deputy  Prime Minister spent half of last year hurling insults about the people of the United States being murderers and a great many other unsavoury terms. They want to forget about Australia. The only reason that the Americans let our Prime Minister visit their country these days is because the United Nations is on neutral ground in that country and they cannot stop him from entering. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti):  I call the Special Minister of State. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I have been misrepresented. 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen). agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith)-Mr  Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Yes, I do. I am sorry that I irritated you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but I did not know whether I would get an opportunity to explain that I have been misrepresented. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made the claim that I was overseas and did not try to come home when the floods occurred in Queensland earlier this year. I am very sorry that the Minister was not in the Parliament earlier this year when I explained my position. You were with me,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  at the time. We were in Sri Lanka as members of a parliamentary delegation and it was unknown to us that Queensland was suffering as it was. I went into a shop wearing a kangaroo lapel badge indicating to the world that I was an Australian, and the shopkeeper- you will remember him,  Sir- said  to me: 'Do you come from Australia, Sir?' I said: 'Yes'. He said: 'God save Brisbane'. I said: 'Why?' He said: 'Brisbane was declared a disaster area. Only He can help now'.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you can testify to the fact that I made every effort to come home immediately from Sri Lanka. It is a long story and I will not hold up the proceedings of the Committee relating it, but the Minister has been most unfair. He has tried to make cheap political capital at my expense trying to get the Prime Minister off the hook for all the trips overseas he has made. 
The Parliament has noted in recent times the complete and utter silence of Tasmanian members. This is in stark contrast to the action of other members of this Parliament who are on the non-Government side and who are unfettered and able to speak out against some of the destruction which is going on in this country. Last Tuesday night , we had a performance- that is the only word that I can use to describe it- by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who is the member for Newcastle in which the Minister completely and utterly denounced Evans Deakin Industries Ltd in Brisbane. 
I wish to quote extracts from that rather remarkable speech delivered on 22 October. The Minister described Evans Deakin in this way: 
It is the worst managed shipyard that this country has ever had the misfortune to have. The manner in which it conducts its affairs is poor. It has antagonised unions and, incidentally, the unions have not been unco-operative. The way Evans 
Deakin has antagonised unions into unnecessary stoppages is an absolute and utter disgrace. 
The Minister said further 
It is an inefficient, badly administered shipyard. 
This statement followed the announcement by Evans Deakin that it had reached a stage where it could no longer continue to build conventional ships. That announcement was preceded by one from the Adelaide Ship Construction organisation which last year, after a few months of Australian Labor Party policies decided that it could no longer carry on. The Evans Deakin announcement also followed the announcement by Walkers Ltd in Maryborough, Queensland, earlier this year that it could no longer carry on. The stage has now been reached where three of the nation's 6 shipbuilding yards have been forced to close in just 22 months of a Federal Australian Labor Party Government. That is not a bad performance. 
Let us examine some of the claims made last Tuesday night under the privilege of this Parliament by the Minister. They are statements which, if made outside this House, could result in his being sued. But he chose the Parliament in which to say them. I fully recognise that the privilege extended to members of Parliament is there for a reason. But the privilege which we have is one which should not be idly used. To indulge in such an attack is in my view most unfair, unjustified and reflects on every member of the staff of Evans Deakin, whether the staff be at the State Government Insurance office building in the heart of Brisbane or down in the shipyard itself. 'Inefficient' is the word that the Minister use to describe the staff. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the address for 1 974 by  Mr Knevitt, Chairman  and Managing Director of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd. I might say that I have little reason to love the man because, prior to the 1972 election, he came out and condemned the policies of the then Liberal Government. That did not help me in the marginal seat of Griffith. But at least he is consistent. Prior to the last election he came out and said, in a nutshell: 'Well, I thought the Liberals were not too good; but, having seen the Labor Party for 16 months, I am forced to say that they are even worse. ' 
In his report,  Mr Knevitt  says: 
It will be recalled that one of the conditions for our acceptance of the construction of the present drilling rig was that all unions concerned would be parties to a registered industrial agreement. Such an agreement was concluded prior to commencement of construction. The unprecedented high level of industrial stoppages throughout Australia has not been reflected at the shipyard. There has been an almost total absence of stoppages and trade union representatives and  members within the shipyard have continued to honour the terms and conditions of the agreement in settling disputes. 
This is in stark contrast to the claim made by the Minister on Tuesday last. 
I know that the Trades Hall in Brisbane has been vitally concerned for a number of months now about the actions of this Federal Government towards the shipbuilding industry. I know that the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and other Federal Queensland Labor Party members have been involved by the Trades Hall to try to pump some sense into the bilges of the Minister and to try to create a realistic approach to the shipbuilding industry. But this has been to no avail. It is little wonder that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  who is also the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party, is travelling around the country and saying that the Labor Government is on the skids. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has given me permission to incorporate in Hansard the transcript of an address by the Prime Minister, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, at the Kangaroo Point shipyard of Evans Deakin Industries on 2 October 1972. I formally seek leave for its incorporation. 
I thank the House. This 4Vi page address was delivered by the Prime Minister at the Evans Deakin shipyards on 2 October 1972, at a time when he was looking for votes and seats. I shall quote extracts from it. He said: 
We haven't got as many members in the House of Representatives from Brisbane as we should have. We got one additional one last election for the House of Representatives and we want a few more this time. 
He was after my neck just as he was at the last elections, but I am still here. He is still here, but he may not be here as Prime Minister after the next elections. Let me quote his description of Evans Deakin. He said: 
Now this company for which you work is the largest employer in Brisbane. Only Mt Isa Mines employs more people than this company in the whole of Queensland. 
Later in his address he said: 
Now if there 's to be a future for this shipbuilding industry, if there's to be a future for Evans Deakin as a company, or for its employees, there must be some program to guarantee shipbuilding in Australia. 
The Government has already cut the number of shipyards in half since he made this magnificent address. I am glad that the Minister permitted me to incorporate this address in Hansard because it is one of those speeches which will live in infamy. He continued: 
You ought to have a future here. Only the Australian Labor Party offers a future to you. I believe if people know you work here and you tell them in the pub or at the football or whatever one does in summer up here - 
The Prime Minister does not even know what people do in Queensland in summer-  what a difference it makes to you and this company, what a difference it makes to this capital city, what a difference it makes to this State and the difference there is between a Liberal-Country Party Federal Government attitude to it - 
His speech at this point should have had a couple of commas and full stops but did not-  and a Federal Labor Government attitude to it, then you will be able to assist to see that Joe McDonald wins Moreton, Eddie Foat wins Griffith, Len Keogh gets a bigger majority in Bowman and Manfred Cross gets a bigger majority in Brisbane. 
That speech was delivered less than 2 years ago. 
-They got bigger majorities but, regrettably, the people were fooled in 1 972. If the honourable member examines the Queensland results for the last elections he will see that the former member for Lilley is no longer here, Eddie Foat and Clem Jones are but names in the annals of history and Len Keogh and Manfred Cross scraped in. I suggest that after the next elections none of those Government supporters who are here from Queensland will be here. Just as the shipbuilding yards of Australia have been wiped off the map so will members of the present Government. The greatest tragedy is that from the Prime Minister down members opposite promised the world, yet the other night- I conclude where I began- the Minister for Transport, who is supposed to have a degree of responsibility, described Evans Deakin, Brisbane's biggest company and Queensland's second biggest company, as the worst managed shipyard this country has ever had the misfortune to have. What a condemnation. I hope that all workers in Evans Deakin who have been silly enough to vote Labor in the past will recognise that their future employment opportunities are being discarded because of the policies of the present Government. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  concluded his speech by praising the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for his tremendous efforts in China. It was reported in the Press only a few days ago that one of the Minister's latest initiatives was his offering of the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia to the Chinese for $20m. A report stated that the Minister made the offer to high Chinese officials while he was in Peking to open the recent trade exhibition. If ever there were anything that underlined the fact that this nation is on the skids, it is that report. 
-The honourable member for Wilmot says: 'What rubbish'. In the last few days I have received letters from 3 companies in my electorate which have gone to the wall. One of them is a textile company and the other 2 are manufacturing companies. As much as I agree with the contention that if you talk recession and depression, you breed recession and depression, there is no running away from realities. Half the problem confronting this country today is that the present Labor Government has adopted the attitude that everything is all right. It has failed to recognise that so many people in this country are in trouble and it is because of this mistaken belief that everything is all right that we have all gone deeper and deeper into difficulties. 
It is all very well for people in Canberra, the isolated city, to suggest policies to Ministers and to devise policies for suggestion to Cabinet, but the people in this city have not felt the full effect of the devastation that has taken place in the last 18 months. People are losing their jobs at the rate of approximately 1,000 a day. I would like to tell the honourable member for Wilmot about the situation in my electorate, because he virtually says that it is not true that people are in trouble. There is a large textile firm in my electorate which wrote to all its clients on 2 1 October telling them of its inability to supply certain products in the future because it simply could not compete. I will not name the company but it is in its tenth year of operation. During its operation it has had quite some impact on the Queensland trade in school knitwear and, to a lesser extent, in knitted sportswear for men and boys. The firm concluded its letter by saying that at the end of December it will cease operation. 
Recently my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and I had an opportunity to interview various people from the Ipswich area of Queensland. The textile company in which they were employed, like other firms throughout Australia, was closing down like the lights going off at Luna Park at 1 a.m. What a proud record this Government has! What a 2-year period of great achievement! Yet the honourable member for Wilmot has the cheek to come into the chamber and tell us that we are scaremongers. I would agree with him that it is totally unnecessary for people to spit in the face of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby). 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I suggest the honourable member address his remarks to the Chair. 
I will. I was just trying to teach the honourable member for Wilmot. I agree with him that it is terrible for people to spit in the face of the Minister, but what the Labor Government does not realise is that today people are so incensed at the destruction which has taken place within our economy that they are using virtually every method to express their indignation. Furthermore, the Thomas Dixon shoe manufacturing company which is based in my electorate is also in dire trouble. A couple of its ex-employees came to see me earlier this week for assistance to try to get the payments which have been promised by the Government to those people who have been retrenched as a result of industries being forced to close down because they cannot compete. 
I refer again to what the Government has done to the Australian shipbuilding industry. In the last 15 or 16 months the Adelaide Shipping Construction company has been forced to close; Walkers Ltd in Maryborough has been forced to close, and Evans Deakin Industries Ltd in my electorate in Brisbane has called an end to its conventional ship building activities. The trouble with the present Labor Government is that it expects Australian industry to compete against people who eat a handful of rice for breakfast, lunch and dinner. It is high time that this Ministry, if it expects Australian workers to compete on these grounds, started setting an example by Ministers eating a handful of rice each meal. We in Australia have a high standard of living and a high wage structure. It is absolutely impossible for Australian industry to compete against some of the industries based in the cheap labour countries. I do not prescribe systems which promote inefficiency. There has to be a balance. There has to be a recognition by the trade union movement and by every worker in Australia that if his particular industry is going to receive some form of protection which will increase the unit price of the article or the goods, then in return he has got to give something back, and that something is an honest day's work; and furthermore, that the industrial strife which has plagued this nation, particularly during the term of the present Government, has to come to an end. The tragedy is that during the first year of the Australian Labor Party Government the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  adopted an encouraging stance. It was more or less an invitation to every trade union to get into the box, to 'get in for what you can, the Government won't take any action against you and now is the time to go'. When you start a flood tide often it is not easy to stop it. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said the other day that he thought it was about time profit-bashing stopped. The Labor Government has indulged in profit-bashing to a stage where it has just about beaten the feathers out of every pillow in the nation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement in Townsville about 5 weeks ago that the load to defeat inflation would be put upon the shoulders of those best able to carry it. We have fast reached the stage where Australia is running out of people able to carry any more of the load, and the load is now falling right across everybody's shoulders, whether they be big men or small men. That is the proud record of this present Government, yet the prevous  speaker  stood in his place and assured us that the Government was doing all right, that there was nothing to fear except fear itself. 
I have no vested interest whatsoever in being a scare monger or a fear monger. The only vested interest I have is in a viable, vibrant and happy Australia, and with half a lifetime ahead of me I am disgusted at the manner in which the present Government has run this country for the past 22 months, because honourable members opposite are not only destroying my opportunity for the future but they are destroying the opportunity for their own children, who will be handed an Australia which is but a shadow of the Australia of yesteryear. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
1 ) Was the decision to make $ 1 50m aid available to the African liberation movement made by the Minister's predecessor; if not, by whom. 
What method of distribution will be employed. 
What is the type of aid proposed, and who will be in charge of the administration of the aid. 
The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  regrettably suggested, not by innuendo but by clear statement, that the motivation of my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was a desire to protect his television station friends. I think it is a pity that the Government sees the Opposition as simply being motivated by endeavours to protect a certain sector. Regrettably the Government's whole thinking is sectionalised and filled with class hatred and differences. But what I would like to bring to the attention of the Committee and the Minister is the fact that we on this side of the chamber have reason for concern. In my own city of Brisbane, the Australian Labor Party already has control of a radio station. It is not unfair or unrealistic for those in Opposition to look at the manner in which the Labor Party administers its radio station in Brisbane, and say that probably that is the manner in which it will administer this Act and control the media. I draw to the Minister's attention and leave recorded in Hansard for ever the fact that during the last Federal election campaign the Australian Labor Party radio station in Brisbane, which by law is supposed to accept all forms of advertisements - 
-I suggest to the honourable member for Kingston that he sit down and wait a moment. Oh! My friend from the Australian Broadcasting Commission is about to stand up and address the Committee in his best voice. 
-Clause 6. 
-I am speaking to the amendment to clause 6 put forward by my friend, the honourable member for Lilley. 
-I will try to do that. The honourable member for Lilley expressed concern that the Bill refers to 'such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate '. The point I am trying to make is that this is dangerous. As far as I am concerned, even the amendment suggested by the honourable member for 
Lilley would not eliminate my point of concern. I return to the fact that the Labor Party station 4KQ refused to accept three or four of my advertisements. One of them went something like this: Once a Labor Lord Mayor stood for Federal Parliament. He tried to take Don Cameron's seat but the electors of Griffith - 

 - Mr Chairman, I am just giving to you information that you could not have acquired by listening to 4KQ, the Labor station. There was nothing offensive in the tune and I am sorry I am not allowed to finish it because it is most interesting. The Labor Party station would not allow me as an individual to advertise in the way that I wanted to. Yet the Australian Labor Party Government, the big brother of the ALP, in Queensland, is proposing a Bill which will place in its hands controls which in the future could enable it- my friend the honourable member for Moreton might clarify this for me- to forbid all commercial stations throughout Australia to accept Liberal Party advertising in any form. This is dangerous. I do not intend to speak for long but I felt that we could not let the occasion pass without my drawing this to the attention of the Committee. Perhaps the Minister when he winds up the debate on this clause, will explain to me why the ALP radio station in Brisbane would not accept advertising from me in the last Federal election. The Labor Party talks about democracy but its words are very empty when I can cite here in this chamber an example such as that I spoke of a moment ago. 
Regrettably, the Government so curtailed the time available to honourable members in the Foreign Affairs segment of the Estimates debates that it was impossible then for me to raise the subject upon which I wish to speak tonight. Regrettably, too, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who was Acting Leader of the House when the Parliament sat a fortnight ago so curtailed the adjournment debate that I did not have a chance then to raise this matter. Therefore I now wish to raise it in defence of someone who is no longer in Australia. I refer to an article which appeared on page 1581 in the 'Nation Review' of 27 September to 3 October this year. The article appears under the heading 'News'. The headline reads: 'Gair does the lair in Dublin'. The article was subscribed by Donal J. Tully who is the special correspondent of the ' Nation Re vie w ' in that area. 
I have no reason to feel that I need discharge debts to ex-Senator Gair, who is now the Australian Abassador in Dublin, nor does he have any reason to feel obliged to me. The only reason why I am making this speech in this chamber on privilege is that I feel I have an obligation to truth. The following claim is made in the article: 
However, within the walls or the Australian Embassy, which occupies an entire floor of  Fitzwilton  House, one of Dublin's smartest office buildings, Gair has the reputation of being an Antipodean romeo- paunchy, perhaps, but nonetheless persistent. His persistence, indeed, combined with his romantic invitation to 'Give me a peck, dear', has caused three unappreciative female members of his staff to resign. 
One said to me wistfully: 'I thought that son of thing was an Italian habit. I didn't know Australians were pinchers, too.' And she told stories of cries of 'help! help!' coming from offices occupied by nubile girls, and of the great Australian adjective echoing resonantly through the corridors. 
I thought this was a rather wild claim but in this world anything can happen. So on 14 October I wrote to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and asked him whether or not there was any truth in the claims in the article. I received a reply from the Minister on 25 October and I have been waiting to speak on this matter ever since then. The Minister m his reply said: . 
I refer to your letter of 14 October 1974 concerning a report in a recent edition of 'Nation Review' about our Ambassador in Ireland. 
Five female members of our Embassy at Dublin have resigned during 1974. 
That is fair enough. The letter continued: 
These resignations took effect before the arrival of the Ambassador. There have been no resignations since the Ambassador's arrival. 
The only point that I want to raise tonight is the need for honesty in reporting. If the members of the Press who sit up in the Press Gallery like canaries waiting for their feed at question time, or like galahs in the cornfields waiting to pick up titbits, expect respect from parliamentarians they should realise that this is a two-way traffic. In fairness I acknowledge that there are times in this House when none of us could have any respect for ourselves because of the way in which we perform. But if people are to be paid salaries much greater than our own to sit in judgment on what is said and done here, surely those people, with the advantage of time to reflect upon performances, should come up with better than what I have just cited in this House. 
I do not know why they resigned. They resigned before he arrived. Since he arrived there have been no resignations. It is obviously a very happy embassy. The article continues: 
At the same function, Gair endeared himself to a girl colleague of mine - 
Donal Tully is the writer of the article - from a Dublin evening paper. It was the week when the antics in Australia of the unspeakable lout Frank Sinatra had been prominently reported m Dublin. Gair's greeting to the girl was: ' Frank Sinatra knew how to treat you journalists '. 
I did not like the way Sinatra performed, but surely if he experienced what  Senator Gair  experienced it is little wonder that he is so contemptuous. Furthermore, a man of his voice and style does not need to rely on the Press. So many members of this Parliament accept what is said about them in the Press because they feel that they need to rely on the Press. If they are insulted they feel that if they complain they might be given the kiss of death through some editorial column or something else. So, for self preservation, they swallow their pride. 
I am glad that the 'Nation Review' is not like the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail'. It is not a paper which is read from front to back by hundreds of thousands of people from sun-up to sun-down each and every day; it is a paper which comes out only once a week. But there are many people who buy that newspaper. Even with the flippant approach which might be taken by journalists in Australia who contribute to that paper, or the flippant approach which might be taken by journalists who subscribe from overseas, I still believe that the newspaper has an obligation to ensure accuracy in reporting. In the case to which I have referred we have no more than a complete and utter fabrication. An individual may have a reputation for being a good  speaker,  for instance, but he should not necessarily be written up as a great orator. It is not right for newspapers and journalists to take such licence and to exaggerate a situation. In this case it has been proven to my satisfaction that no such event occurred. I say to  Senator Gair  over there in Ireland- I hope he reads my speech in Hansard- that he was appointed in a most contemptible manner and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who regrettably still continues as Prime Minister, exploited him. It may be a sign of age that  Senator Gair  accepted the position and sold out his previous principles.  Senator Gair  may be in Dublin or Edinburgh, but back here in Australia we who believe in truth and honesty will continue to defend what is right. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls that, as an electoral candidate for the Australian Labor Party from the New South Wales division of his Party, he signed a pledge which concluded with the words: 
I also pledge myself to actively support and advocate at all times the Party's objective-the socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. 
Does he recall that on many occasions he has stated that he is proud to be a socialist? I further ask whether he remembers that part of his new budget address last Tuesday week which stated: 
The Australian Government fully recognises the crucial importance of the private sector in the development of Australia. 
The lack of public response in the last week to the new budget is connected closely to lack of confidence because of the conflict of socialist vows of the Prime Minister and - 
I ask the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that he has been invited to open the new main grandstand at the Brisbane Cricket Ground- which is situated in my electorate of Griffith- prior to the start of the First Test on 29 November? If this is correct, who extended the invitation to him? If it was Alderman Clem Jones, is the Prime Minister aware that. Alderman Jones is alleged to have done it without the approval of the Brisbane Cricket Ground Trust or the Queensland Cricket Association? Finally, how does he feel about opening a new grandstand funded by the Joh BjelkePetersenGordon Chalk State Government, a government to which he is so bitterly opposed? 
I would like to move that he be given an extension of time. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to resolutions of a meeting of the Staff Association of the Queensland Institute of Technology held on 15 September 1974, which expressed grave concern as to the sincerity of the Government in its attitude towards education when not allowing college salaries to move with comparable professional salaries, and which deplored the actions of the Government in its attitude towards the fixation of academic salaries in that it failed to implement the recommendations of the Campbell Com- ' mittee. 
Is it a fact that the meeting urged the Government to take action so that academic salaries can be investigated forthwith. 
Is it also a fact that industrial action is contemplated. 
What action is being taken by the Government to settle the grievances. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Is the Minister aware that before the Government introduced measures to give some protection to the shoe industry there were already over one million pairs of shoes, on the water, coming to Australia? Is the Minister aware that Myers, the company which supported Labor in 1972, placed an order with a South-East Asian country, where they have cheap labour, for the supply of thousands of pairs of women's thongs of the same kind as have been made by a firm in Brisbane for the last decade? Is the Minister aware that this Brisbane company has been forced to lay off 150 of its 200-member staff? Is the Minister aware that many of these imports, such as the footwear I now display and which are not even reinforced, as I now demonstrate to the House, are faulty? I ask the Minister what he is doing to protect the shoe industry from the impact of these one million pairs of shoes which are already on the water and what he is doing to warn the Australian public about the inferior quality of much of these imports, which have been made possible by the non-existent tariff policies of this present Goverment? 
Previous speakers have made considerable references to the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill and in the very short time available to me I should like to direct my attention to the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill. At the outset, I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on the introduction of this Bill. There would probably be no other electorate in Australia which has a higher percentage of those unfortunate derelicts and homeless persons than my electorate of Griffith, on the south side of Brisbane. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  who is not in the chamber at the moment, and I know more than any other Queensland member about the tragedy that is associated with these people. I recall very vividly the days in my electorate of  Mrs Joyce  Wilding, who was eventually awarded an O.B.E. for her work in South Brisbane, and I recall the job which has been done for both men and women by the Salvation Army. I hope that the Minister for Social Security, who comes from Ipswich and who is a little isolated from this, might listen to what I have to say. One of the problems has been that the placement of a number of these facilities, what might be described as shelters- for instance, St Vincent de Paul Society shelters- in the inner city area has not exactly helped to eliminate the problem. I know that the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill makes provision for up to 100 per cent of the amount of money required to build a new home, and I would enter a plea now to the Government to study closely the desirability of encouraging those charitable organisations which might wish to become involved to move out of the inner city areas because those areas are responsible for half the problem of loneliness of many of the people who presently use the facilities. Come 5 o'clock the cities are deserted by the working people. There might be people going to the theatre or to have a drink, but other than that the inner areas of the cities are lonely areas in the evening. They are lonely areas which do nothing to assist these people in their loneliness. Just as a lesson is to be learned from the manner in which the Government allowed Aboriginal hostels to be set up in Brisbane- there is some problem at New Farm now- I hope that there will be recognition of the need to encourage these organisations to move out of the city. I realise that the argument on the Aboriginal hostels is that the people living in them have got to be close to their work places, but regrettably many of the people who will be catered for in these homes have little inclination to work and that argument does not apply and is not valid. If you throw the homeless into the dirty, dingy industrial parts of the big cities, what hope do they have? The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  made references earlier to the bashed women for whom these homes might be able to serve as a half way house. I should like to suggest- and there is no mention of this in the Minister's second reading speech- that there are also mentally battered men. How many men on Skid Row have come from a marital home, have been driven out by their wives? As the only bachelor in this House I know that many honourable members might say that it is strange for me to be speaking with such authority on such a subject. But it is a fact that many men have been mentally beaten from their homes whereas many women are physically beaten. It goes both ways. 
The honourable member for Murray, who seeks solace in the Canberra area during the week days, says that the mental battering is more horrible. That is obviously so. There are a number of other things that I would have liked to raise but I see that the time is 5.45 p.m., which is the agreed finishing time for the debate. I again congratulate the Minister. As one whose electorate contains many of these unfortunate people I will be watching to see how the scheme works. If I can come forward with useful suggestions in the future, either to the present Minister of his successor, whether he be in the present Government or another government, I will most certainly do so to improve the situation. 
It is my intention to bring the debate back to the subject matter of the Bill. As the chief spokesmen for the Opposition,  Mr Chipp  and  Mr Lloyd,  have already outlined, it is the intention of the Opposition- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member will refer to honourable members by their electorates. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  have outlined that it is the intention of the Opposition to oppose these measures vigorously. We see them as being no different from the Bills in relation to the national health scheme which we have opposed ever since the Labor Government came into power. These are simply more Bills to make possible the imposition of Labor's health scheme. This legislation proposes nothing more than an additional tax on the Australian people. No other name can be given to what is proposed. As if the workers and the people of Australia today were not already under Labor being forced to pay enough in taxation. We need this measure like we need a hole in the head. It completely ridicules the measures announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  recently when he introduced the third Budget that we have had since 17 September. Those measures were designed to reduce taxation. Here we are with the sun setting on the 1974 parliamentary session and the Government is endeavouring to rush through legislation to make it possible to impose extra taxation. What has amazed me about this debate is the complete and utter silence of Government members, not one of whom has come out to speak in favour of or to denounce the measures now before the House. 
This legislation more particularly relates to the position in Queensland. If anything was to indicate the insensitivity of the present Federal Labor Government, it is this legislation. An election is to be held in Queensland on Saturday. Less than 48 hours from that election we are debating another tax measure, the effects of which will be particularly hard on Queensland people. Let me explain the reason for that statement. As everyone knows, Queensland already has a free hospital system. What Labor proposes is simply this: As a result of this legislation every working man and woman in Queensland who earns more than a couple of thousand dollars a year will be forced, whether they like it or not, to pay 1.35 per cent of their income as a levy. That means that this Government is offering Queensland free hospital services - something which Queenslanders already receive for nothing- in return for the extra taxation imposed by this legislation. Furthermore, this levy is an extra payment required additional to what people in Queensland and everywhere else in Australia pay if they belong to a health insurance organisation. When Queenslanders are forced to pay this levy, they will receive no right in return of entry to intermediate or private ward hospital accommodation. They will need to belong to a private health fund to qualify for that, just as they must today. Therefore, Queenslanders are twotime losers. 
The Government expects the people of Australia to take this legislation lying down. Furthermore, it expresses surprise when the Opposition continues to oppose these measures. The facts of life are that this country has been devastated completely since the election of the Federal Labor Government. The people of Canberra are all right when these grandiose schemes are drawn up. Canberra, unlike any other city, is insulated from the effects of the actions of this Government because so many people are employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. In Canberra, the sun comes up and the sun goes down; there is never any change. But out in the cities- whether they be Sydney, Melbourne, Perth or Brisbane, or smaller provincial towns like Julia Creek or Toowoomba- people are unemployed as a result of the stupidity and the implementation of the policies of this Federal Government. Nobody yet has been able to tell us how much the Government's health scheme will actually cost. All we have seen to date is a Bill that the Government is attempting to whizz through today which will require 1 .35 per cent of the income of each and every working person to be paid, with a ceiling of $150. But with inflation at the rate of 22 per cent a year what will that percentage be next year? What will it be at the end of the following year? I clearly recall reading articles in English newspapers which stated that the English health scheme was cracking at the seams and was falling to pieces. It would be saved only by a sudden injection of another Stg500m. Costs were escalating at such a rate that only extra money could hold it up. The Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Hotham, explained earlier quite forcefully how everything that the Government has touched has fallen to pieces. I plead with the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  who is at the table, on behalf of not just the Opposition but all Australians to bring his influence to bear in the Cabinet and to see - 
-Obviously the Minister is convinced as to the correctness of the argument I am presenting because he has just promised to do this if I sit down. If he listens to me, he will be even more convinced. The point I am making is that our shadow Minister, the honourable member for Hotham, has shown clearly that everything that the Labor Government has touched has been destroyed. We cannot afford this Government any more. Australia cannot afford the destruction of the institutions which presently stand. Let us take into account the cost of the Government's proposed compensation scheme, superannuation scheme and health scheme. It has been calculated that these will cost an extra $4,800m a year. Is that right? 
I repeat that they will cost $4,800m a year. The component in the last Federal Budget collected from taxpayers in the form of taxation was $8,000m. This Government collected $8,000m from the Australian taxpayers to permit to introduce a budget on 17 September proposing expenditure of $ 1 6,000m. If the cost of these 3 schemes is added together for their introduction to be made possible taxation will need to be increased another 50 per cent or even 60 per cent. Everybody who is able to think knows that one of the problems in Australia today is that this Government has destroyed incentive. It is ripping so much from the wage earner and from every other person who goes to work that the stage has been reached when these people ask: 'What is the use?' If we do not have productivity or incentive to work in Australia, this nation will grind to a halt. All the grandiose schemes being proposed by this Government will not be possible for the simple fact that there will be no money with which to pay for them. 
I predict, as we speak today in this Parliament, that the number of unemployed persons in Australia has reached 250,000. As I said earlierand it is widely accepted- inflation is running at 22 per cent. Contrary to the arguments of the Prime Minister inflation simply is not a world wide problem. It is a problem which we have in Australia as a direct result of the crazy policies of the present Government. It has absolutely no regard for a balanced economy. On every idea which the Government gets in its head it spends money like crazy to ensure that that idea is implemented. It is because the Government has transferred so much of the expenditure from the private sector to the public sector that Australia is in a spin like a rudderless aeroplane shot out of the sky. 
Another untruth which has been told in this House is the story which has been spun for the sake of Queenslanders. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  stands in this House constantly and says that even though Queenslanders will have to pay this extra amount, it will mean about another $35m a year for the Queensland health scheme. I am getting sick and tired of saying this: I have taken the amount of money collected in income tax from Queenslanders, I have taken 1.35 per cent of this amount and allowed for those who are excluded because of their low incomes and I find that the Government is not giving Queensland a thing. It is taking an extra $35m out of our pockets, giving it back and saying: 'Are we not wonderful?' 
I will come to that. The Government wants me to stop speaking but there is no way in the world that I will stop because I enjoy dealing with the truth on this subject. So that is the great white lie. Furthermore, everywhere in Australia- a man, a husband, the head of the family unit - 
If the Government gags me the division will take 9 minutes. I will speak for another 7 minutes so I will let the Government do its mathematics on that. The contribution now to a private health fund of a husband who is working covers the entire family. That contribution is tax deductible. Under this Bill, which is being rushed through at the conclusion of the sitting this year, if the wife goes out to work she also will be forced to pay into the Governments coffers. The contribution will not be tax deductible. The amount of $150 extra which will be taken out will not be tax deductible. This is another double barrel. The honourable member for Hotham outlined a very strong point earlier when he said that the Government is setting up machinery to process 90,000 claims a day. That is more than half a million claims a week. Can honourable members imagine how many extra public servants will be required to do this? The Opposition has already warned what will happen when we return to power. I notice the honourable member for Hotham used the word 'if. I do not even hesitate. I say that some time in the next year or so when we return to power this Commission will be dismantled by the incoming government. I say to those people who are thinking of becoming public servants in this area: 'Do not say that you were not warned. We might help you to get another job but we will not continue with the octopus set up by the present Government'. 
On behalf of all Queenslanders and, indeed, on behalf of all Australians, I say through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Government should take a big jump at itself and recognise that almost all major decisions which have been implemented in the Government's legislative program have been disastrous. I freely concede that there have been minor things which have been welcome changes. But the major changes which the Government has brought to this country have been disastrous. A quarter of a million unemployed Australians can testify to this. Every working Australian can testify to this because inflation is so high. 
Everything the Government has endeavoured to do it has mucked up. I ask the Government: Please leave us with the present health scheme. From time to time the Opposition has said that it will introduce minor changes to make the health scheme that much better. Over 90 per cent of Australians are presently adequately covered. We do not understand the mentality of the present Government which wants to tip over completely the present scheme just for the sake of 4 per cent or 5 per cent of our population and to introduce a scheme which has not succeeded in any other country. Finally, if the Government is wondering why its popularity is as low as it is, I point out it is because the Government has ab; olutely no conception and no sensitivity. We are sick and tired of the way this country is presently being run. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
My concern with the proposed change in the hours of meeting is a little different and it is not as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has suggested, petty criticism. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  in foreshadowing these new sitting hours, mentioned that the one month recess included Canberra Day on 12 March and Easter. I think Easter commences on 28 March. After one month's sitting, this Parliament will rise on 6 March. The people of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Darwin and Mee Springs could not care less about Canberra Day, in the same way as the people of Canberra could not care less about Exhibition Day in Brisbane, Labour Day in Victoria or the other public holidays in different States. The reason that we on the Opposition side are vitally concerned centres around the fact that never in this nation's history has Australia been so down on its knees. Because of Canberra Day we are pulling up the stumps for an entire month so that members can go home and have a bit of a chat with their electors. I recall reading in the newspapers about last December of a meeting of the hierarchy of the Australian Labor Party at which grave concern was expressed at the attitude of the Minister for Services and Property in keeping the House sitting all the time and preventing Labor Party members returning to their electorates. Perhaps this is the crux of the matter and the reason for the change. I know that the Opposition shadow Minister,  Mr Sinclair,  suggested that the change could well be to facilitate the overseas travels of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who wants to go to Japan in March and during the recess after that to Jamaica. I do not know whether that is true or false but it is a fair suggestion. With at least 3 1 1 000 people unemployed and with inflation racing at a rate such as we have never known, the management of this country is poor and for the sake of the future existence of Australia the people of Australia deserve better. What they deserve is a Parliament in session so that  Her  Majesty's Opposition can carefully scrutinise, criticise end correct the legislative processes which are implemented in this chamber and from the forum of the national Par.liament criticise those moves which have led this country down the path of disaster for so many months now. 
The Minister at the table prided himself on his record last year. We have a new character here now. We have a new honourable member for Grayndler. During 1973 and 1974 he would stand in the House and say that never in the history of this Parliament have we sat for so many days. Then he would trot out his rolls of paper and recite the list of legislation that had been introduced and say that never in the history of this nation had so much legislation been introduced in a year. At the end of each year we had the spectacle of  Mr Whitlam,  whilst the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  signed his Christmas cards - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! There has been far too much describing of members of Parliament by their names and not by their constituencies or the office they hold in the House. I ask the honourable member for Griffith and other honourable members to respect the rule that this must not be done. 
I apologise for using names,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Parliament has been in recess for so long that one can hardly remember the names of the members on the Government side let alone the names of their electorates. At the end of every year we had the spectacle of the Prime Minister reciting in this Parliament the achievements of the Whitlam Government for that year. The Government has boasted about the long sittings of the Parliament and the amount of legislation which has been introduced. Now that things have gone bad in Australia, it is introducing a formula that will keep members of Parliament in the dark, keep them out in their electorates because that is no trouble, shorten the sitting times- take off a month here and two or three weeks there. On behalf of the residents of the electorate of Griffith which, at this moment of speaking still exists, despite the instructions of the Minister for Services and Property that it be totally eliminated, and on behalf of the people of Queensland who spoke so loudly on 7 December last year when some 25 Australian Labor Party State members lost their seats in the State Parliament, I protest most loudly at the fact that the Australian Parliament is not sitting for a reasonable period at a time when this nation is in one big mess. 
I am not one of those members who have come into this chamber this evening with a lengthy pre-prepared speech revealing that I am unaware, as the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has pointed out to all members, that the proposed amendment negates our opportunity to discuss the Bill further. One of the regrettable features of this entire debate is that some honourable members totally opposed to the Bill have masqueraded as open minded people. They have presented an amendment which virtually asks all honourable members if they believe in motherhood. The right answer to that question would mean kaput for the entire Bill. It is unfortunate that the amendment has been couched in such terms because a strict application of the Standing Orders of this House would virtually preclude meaningful debate. When I examine the amendment proposed by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  I realise that I can answer yes to all of the questions it poses. I believe that the family is the basic and stable unit of Australian society. On the other hand I am not completely convinced that the Family Law Bill of 1 974 does not already spell that out. 
I came to this House early this week with an open mind after having done considerable reading and having listened to the views of many people. But having discussed the subject I cannot be sold on the view propounded by the Minister when he proposed his amendment. I do not believe it does what the honourable members for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and others say it does. I believe the position is far from what they suggested. I agree that marriage should be buttressed, that it should be permanent and secure. These are questions the amendment poses. How many people enter marriage with the view that if divorce is easy that marriage is all right? Until recent times divorce has not been simple; it has not been inexpensive. Does that mean that over the years people have not married because of those factors? Every day in every city in Australia thousands of people enter the state of matrimony. The amendment claims that full and proper recognition be given to the status and rights of a woman as wife and mother. I do not believe that those who support the Bill as it stands disagree with that concept. So I could go on. 
Regrettably, one of the previous speakers showed a lack of judgment when he said that earlier he did not have very many feelings about this legislation but that he has now had many letters and therefore he had come out against the Bill. I remember when the abortion issue was before this House. I received some 1300 letters on that occasion. I would have received approximately 50 letters opposed to this Bill and perhaps 1 5 in favour of it. Public reaction to this Bill has not been nearly so great as that relating to the abortion issue. An honourable member who bases his judgment and his vote simply on the volume of mail that he receives in his office has surely reached the time when he should stop and look at himself to determine whether he is a person worthy to continue in this place. 
Looking further at the letters we have received on this matter, we find they are motivated very much by the Church. But within the Church itself tremendous divisions exist on this question. In my city of Brisbane, the Anglican archbishop says: 'Go ahead; it is all right'. In other areas, Anglicans are against this Bill. In some areas, Baptists are dead against the legislation while in other districts Baptists are in favour of it. This is an issue which should not be considered on the basis of church divisions but rather on the viewpoint of each individual member. 
I repeat what I said earlier: I believe that people do not get married to become divorced. That is half of the substance of the whole issue. Through every one of the speeches of those who oppose completely this Bill and who propose this amendment runs the thread which suggests that the passage of this Bill will mean that people will race off, get married, separate, and then be divorced. I suggest that even today under the present laws, people start the process of divorce only at the stage when their marriage has gone upon the rocks. I know- this is one of the aspects which troubles me- that cases can be pointed to in which, if divorce is easy and fast, some marriages which might have been patched up under the old system will break up if this legislation is in force because it will provide an easier method of divorce involving a shorter period. But this argument still does not get away from the fact that the vast majority of those who are divorced these days suffer tremendous pains and penalties in meeting the requirements of the process. It is apt that in 1975 we are re-examining the entire divorce process in Australia. 
I have 2 areas of concern, namely, the future of children and the maintenance of the wife of a broken family. Let me deal first with the future of children of a broken marriage. The point has been made already today that a child or children living in an unhappy house- I use the word house' carefully," I do not use the word 'home'can be tormented to a far greater degree than a child or children who live in a one-parent family. I advocate and stand by the concept of a mother and a father, where it is possible, bringing children up in a normal household. But if a household is not normal, it is only proper that we examine the degrees of abnormality under which children must live. So often a marriage has just held together because one partner cannot afford separation or divorce, or because that would be inconvenient, or for some other reason. This is a far unhappier situation than a marriage which breaks asunder and which results in the children of that marriage being awarded to one parent with access being granted to the other parent. If all honourable members in this chamber were honest, we would admit that we know many cases in which children have lived in circumstances such as I have described and their family life has been most unsatisfactory. 
My second point relates to the maintenance of the wife. In presenting this amendment, a couple of honourable members have done women a grave disservice. One honourable member earlier this evening described women as not being equal to men. Another honourable member suggested that a woman's sex life ran out far faster than a man's sex life and that, therefore, like a dirty dishcloth the woman was to be thrown into the sink or into the rubbish bin and no longer have the chance to gain special protection. Another suggestion, which I think was made by an honourable member from my home State, included references to 'tom cats' and casanovas' but did not even mention the case of what he privately called 'alley cat women'. I asked him later why he did not make any reference to them. The point is that marriage can go wrong for reasons associated with either partner to the marriage. I believe that clause 75, contrary to many of the arguments put forward or the furphies spread in this place, sets out on a needs basis to provide for a woman and her family. 
If a man has fathered 5 children and for some reason, while those children are fairly young, decides that he does not wish to continue that marriage and obtains a divorce, I believe 100 per cent that whether that unfortunate event occurs under this proposed system or under the existing system, that man has a total obligation to maintain his ex-wife and his children while she is incapable of providing anything for herself. That is my belief. Let it not be misrepresented. However, the only difference between the present system and the one which is being proposed is that this Bill removes the ecclesiastical penalty which is attempted to be imposed when a marriage goes wrong. This Bill is based on a needs basis - 
-My friend from Stirling asks: 'What penalty?' Let me deal with another furphy, in answering that query, by referring to the paragraphs of sub-clause (2) of clause 75. Some honourable members said this afternoon and this evening that because nastiness in the early stages of divorce would be avoided under this Bill, it would be reintroduced when the maintenance provisions were determined. The fact is that paragraphs (a) to (m) in clause 75 (2) set out the matters to be considered by the court in determining maintenance, and paragraph (n) applies only in cases where it can be shown that a husband or a father has been a brute or has indulged in certain activities. This pins him down if the wife did not qualify in accordance with the earlier provisions. Contrary to the views expressed by some people, I do not believe that if the family of a married couple has grown up and only the husband and wife remain living together, and that couple then separates and is divorced and the wife is well provided for the husband should, for the rest of his life, be required to pay the penalty for having married that woman in the first place. This is what is being proposed either directly or indirectly by some of the proponents of this amendment who seek to throw out this Bill. 
I have always believed that one of the regrettable features and one of the problems of marriage is that marriage is far too easy. But if we start to impose restrictions there will be those who will say that this is an invasion of the right of a person to do what he or she wants to do. I believe that it is high time we considered ways and means of ensuring that particularly young people- the very young- cannot simply run into marriage at three or four days notice. There has been talk about wanting to buttress the state of marriage. One way of doing it is by ensuring that marriage is not so easy, introducing a system whereby something like 3 months notice is needed and requiring that the priest, clergyman or celebrant must have at least two or three discussions in a counselling way with those who are being married. That should be done. 
I acknowledge the point raised by some previous speakers in the debate that after 20 years of marriage many women are virtually incapable of returning to the work force. In relation to that I suggest that legislation not unlike the Age Discrimination Act of the United States of America should be introduced. It is a regrettable fact of life in this country that many people, whether they are married or unmarried, are debarred from gaining meaningful jobs once they reach 45 or 50 years of age. The employers say: 'We do not want them because they are too old'. Antidiscrimination measures are being introduced to counter racial discrimination and every other form of discrimination that the Government or  Mr Grassby  can think of at this time. We should be contemplating seriously the introduction of anti-discrimination laws to stop people from being kept out of a job because of their age? I believe that such a measure is a necessary handinglove measure to make possible the return to the work force of some of those people who undoubtedly will be encouraged in the future, if their marriage is dissolved, to seek means of supporting themselves if they are fit and able to do so. 
I conclude by expressing the simple hope that my position on this Bill will not be totally misrepresented for cheap political reasons in the times to come. I repeat that the amendment proposed by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and backed by those who are totally opposed to the Bill is one that many honourable members will not be able to support because, although they would say yes to the questions asked, to support it would mean the throwing out of the existing Bill. It is regrettable that the opponents of this measure employed such tactics initially- I think the Minister described them as a trick- to bring about the defeat of the Bill because they have hardened many people in their views. The matter has come to a stage where those who believe that some changes in our divorce laws are necessary have no alternative but to vote against the amendment proposed and hope that common sense will prevail in the Committee stage of the debate if there are areas and there are in which changes should be made. 
May I say in reply to some of the comments of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  that the policy of the Australian Labor Party is the complete abolition of the Senate. It is sheer and utter hypocrisy for him or any member of the Australian Labor Party to stand up here and protect the Senate. The Gair affair is probably one of the most shabby deals in the history of this nation. It was a ploy adopted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to try to bring about a situation which would give the Australian Labor Party the majority in the Senate and get rid of  Senator Gair  who was a thorn in its side. I am not rising to speak about the groans and moans of members of the Australian Labor Party. I do not approve of what has been done in New South Wales, but the Labor Party has been caught out at its own game on this occasion. Ex-Senator Murphy- he is not a High Court judge yet- is known as the man who headed the raids on the 
Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He has been placed in that position either to facilitate the speedy passage through the High Court of the challenges by the States to the Labor Government's legislation or, alternatively, to get rid of him from the Senate. 
Today I raise an issue which is affecting people- that there are 311 000 Australians unemployed. This is the worst unemployment in the nation's history and it is a direct result of the mismanagement of the economy and the affairs of this nation. In my view, the figure of 3 1 1 000 is not a correct figure because of the many schemes implemented by the Government. There is the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme which are draining off a number of the unemployed. Those people who are virtually receiving some form of assistance from the Government, are no longer shown in the unemployment figures. It would be appropriate to say that today unemployment has reached nearly 350 000. If anyone at home who is unemployed is listening to me and has not registered let me say: 'For heaven's sake, go and put your name down because many people have not registered and the accurate position is still being concealed.' 
The Government, in a typical flurry when introducing a new scheme, has bungled and mismanaged the NEAT scheme. The NEAT scheme enables people to be retrained for some occupation. One of the greatest tragedies is that people who applied for retraining at the end of November and December last year still have not been told whether they are eligible for the training which is supposedly being made available. The crazy part is that right now- during the month of February- courses are commencing all over the country. Colleges are re-opening, schools where people can obtain matriculation are re-opening, as are sundry other courses which people need to embark upon to retrain for some occupation which may be available in the years to come. 
I asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  whom I informed that I would be speaking today, to take a personal interest in this matter because it is absolutely ridiculous that these people who have been given hope that they would be retrained after losing their jobs are continuing to sit at home awaiting word from the Government as to whether or not they have been accepted for retraining. These people are finding it impossible to get any reply from the capital city offices. The information they are given is that their application has been sent to Melbourne. Just about every applicant is awaiting the magic word from Melbourne to say whether he or she has succeeded. This is a totally unsatisfactory situation. It is inhumane and yet another example of the present Government having introduced a scheme without having thought it right through to the end. The grandoise schemes are hatched but no-one seems to consider the machinery necessary to implement them. In the meantime people suffer. 
The second matter I raise in the chamber today refers to the scheme which was spoken of earlier today by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  I also told him that I would be raising this issue in the Parliament during the grievance debate. I refer to the income tax instalment deduction scheme whereby a person or persons- a married couple- can have a new tax figure set, depending upon the amount that they pay each week in instalments towards the cost of purchasing their own home. What I am about to say will not please the Minister. The housing loan interest declaration form which has to be processed through the employer is nothing but an invasion of privacy. There are 2 ways in which to obtain the taxation deduction on housing loan interest. If a person has paid $1,500 at the end of the financial year to the building society, the bank or somebody else who has loaned him money, he can deduct that $1,500 from his taxable income and thereby receive a tax refund. 
But the reason for the introduction of the scheme was so that more money would be put back into people's pockets by virtue of the fact that they pay a decreased tax contribution. If that is what the scheme is all about, I can only suggest that the present Government has again failed to consider every aspect of its implementation. It is, as I said, carrying on a gross invasion of privacy. The point is that in order to obtain the benefit a taxpayer is required to supply to his employer details as to the greatest debt that the average income earner incurs in his lifetime. In addition he is required to sign a statement, under penalty of $1,000 or 6 month's gaol. The scheme apparently places no burden of secrecy on the employer or any member of the staff. 
The form which the applicant is required to sign is entitled 'Housing Loan Interest Declaration'. The first section of the form requires the applicant to supply details similar to those supplied in obtaining tax deductions for dependants, and therefore raises no objection. But the second section of the form requires disclosure of the individual's debts, interest rates and estimated gross income for the year. Such information could become the text of office gossip or disclosure, especially where papers are loosely handled by junior employees and others. The third section of the form requires that a taxpayer disclose to his employer details of income from investment, family estates and money gained from outside employment. This is highly objectionable. I do not believe that it is the business of the boss what commitments an employee has. In setting about to introduce this scheme without thought, the Government is forcing people to tell their employer all the details of their private life. Furthermore, a married man who has a working wife has to tell his employer how much his wife is earning in another job which is not at all connected with the male spouse's employment. I do not regard this as being right. 
The present Labor Government when in Opposition used to give me some hope that if ever the day arrived when it came to power it would be interested in privacy. But now that it is in government it has shown that it has absolutely no interest in the subject and obviously does not even take it into consideration when implementing some of its new schemes. It has been a failure. No matter what Government supporters might say, I have been consistent in my battle for privacy, both in the days when my Party was in government and now that it is in Opposition. I trust that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table and who I notice is greatly alarmed at the revelations that I have made in the House today, will tell both the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  that they had better read the grievance day debate today because Cameron said something of note again. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I open my remarks on the Electoral Bill 1974 by simply asking: Why, oh why, does this present Australian Labor Government feel that it has to poke its nose into every corner in this country? Everything it has put its hands on has gone wrong in the last 2 years, yet it continues to reach out. It finds it so difficult to leave anything alone. One of the tragedies is that the Australian Labor Party members are victims of one huge inferiority complex. In their speeches in the past all they did was talk about the multi-nationals and their investment in Australia. They stamped about the country condemning multi-nationals. As a result of their hostility and their refusal to allow overseas capital into Australia we had a huge downturn in the economy. Recently we witnessed the spectacle of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in New York pleading and assuring the multi-nationals that they were welcome to come to Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  in talking of his recent 6-week trip overseas the other night also said how he assured foreign investors that they could come to Australia. Members of the Labor Party are slow learners. Their complex about money in that respect has been proven to be without reason. They also have a complex that the Liberal and Country Parties are receiving huge donations from multi-nationals so they feel that at all costs they have to change the legislation to ensure that every donation is declared. 
The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  spoke earlier of the nation being run by a privileged class. He talked of thousands of millions of dollars. As one who has to raise his own campaign funds because I belong to a Party in a State where the headquarters does not give a candidate a razoo even to bless himself with on polling day, I have had to go out and raise my own money. I can assure honourable members opposite that it is a complete fallacy that nonLabor Parties are rolling in money. They are under a misapprehension. They are dreamers. They are not realistic, just as their approach to government has been unrealistic. They do not know what they are talking about. 
But let me talk about some of the money that the Australian Labor Party handles. I have as my authority a document titled 'Precis of Campaign Directors Report to the Queensland Central Executive on 25 June 1974' by Bart Lourigan. He is the boss of the ALP in Queensland where the Labor Party suffered a disastrous electoral result on 7 December. Perhaps it would like to forget that Queensland even exists. But it is a fact of life. I asked the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  whether I could have this very interesting document incorporated in Hansard. He found it so interesting that he said: 'No, it is not on'. I assured him that I had learnt a lot from it. I wish that he had had time to read it all. Let us tura to the money page. The Labor Party supporters stand up in this House crying poor.  Speaker  after  speaker  talks about the great funds available to this side. Under the heading 'Campaign Budget' it states: 
The Queensland Central Campaign Committee decided to work on a budget of $45,000, which received Executive approval. However, following the announcement of a Double Dissolution, the budget was raised to $60,000. Yet, when final costs incurred by the QCE campaign are tallied, it is expected that the campaign will have cost a record $80,000. Never has such a large sum been spent on a Federal campaign in such a short period. This compares to the $60,000 in 1972, made up of an estimated budget of $40,000, and $ 1 8,000 from the National Campaign Committee. 
Of course this report does not even make mention of the amounts which were spent by the various candidates in the various electorates. I have read time and time again of the problem that the ALP in Queensland had when my opponent the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Clem Jones, put in his bill for $10,000 which was only part of what he spent in a joint ALP- Jones effort to unseat me in Griffith. The Labor Party spent some $30,000 in the one seat of Griffith. 
I did not spend as much as the Labor Party did. I can assure honourable members that I was not caught sleeping. Because I anticipated the tactics that would be employed, as is my right in a democratic society, I took counter measures to ensure that money did not win Griffith for the Australian Labor Party and that people made their judgment on the qualities of the candidates and the policies of the parties. At the end of this document,  Mr Lourigan  states: 
It should be reiterated that in this election, the trade union movement both financially and physically gave their best performance. 
The document does not list the unions, it just uses the general term. If we talk about corruption by the use of money, let us be realistic and honest. The Labor Party has exploited the political system of Australia more than any other party in the history of this nation. It has established throughout Australia a network of public offices with public relations officers and Press secretaries. Nobody can put a price on them. They are working with one aim- the return of the Australian Labor Party to government. On page 7 of the report  Mr Lorrigan  says: 
Brisbane is the only State capital without a Federal Minister and the facilities which would normally be made available to one. To remedy this, the State  President  and the State Secretary requested  Mr Whitlam  to open a Press office in Brisbane manned by a member of the Prime Minister's staff... 
In Brisbane we now have a new spy unit. Nobody is aware of its faculties, but we are told it has machinery worth more than $500,000. It can photograph newspaper articles and send them to Canberra so that the Prime Minister's staff can see them and shoot back through the same machinery a reply for release in Queensland. Do honourable members opposite regard this as a fair advantage? The Labor Party has taken 2 people from Sydney to man this unit. One is an extra political stooge who worked on the last campaign for the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  and who was removed from the Public Service and employed in this unit because he has local political knowledge which the southern imports assuredly would not have. This unit costs the taxpayers at least $100,000 a year to run. This unit will be used by the Australian Labor Party come another election. But because the Labor Party is in government, it thinks it does not have to divulge the relevant figures. The Labor Party is giving itself an unfair advantage over those who are not in government. There are people who do not believe in the Liberal Party of Australia, the Australian Country Party or the Australian Labor Party and who seek to form their own parties to platform their own beliefs. I will continue to fight for their rights even though regrettably their preferences do not always come my way. But it is still their right to have their own beliefs and to try to see what electoral acceptance they can gain. The Labor Party is not being fair dinkum. It is introducing a Bill to stifle freedom in this country. 
The amount of expenditure prescribed by the Minister in the Bill would mean that in a Senate election in the Federal division of Griffith no more than $900 could be spent to promote the Senate team. No more than $600 could be spent on a referendum. As a candidate I would be able to spend about $3,000 or at the most 7.5c per elector. During the last election I wrote to 1 3 000 people in my electorate. Fortunately this was at a time when the postage rate for a letter was 7c but it is now 10c. The proposed expenditure would force me into a situation where I could not write to more than a quarter of my electors. The Labor Party says that that is as much as I could spend. I believe that the limits which have been set are totally unrealistic. 
I turn my attention now to the fact, as stated by the honourable members for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  that this Bill completely restricts an organisation in placing advertisements as to their viewpoint either directly or indirectly without the permission of a person who has been nominated by a political party. The Labor Party talks about freedom in Australia but once again it sets out along the path of tying people up more and more. We have become a nation of restrictions since the Labor Party came to power. The thing that troubles me- I expected it from the Labor Party as a government- is that individuals who were once so outspoken on the preservation of liberty are sitting silently in this House like mutes. It is time Labor Party members plucked up courage and spoke out in their party room if they have the intelligence to recognise some of the long term effects of the legislation that their Party is introducing. 
I now turn to the question of political parties being forced to divulge their source of income. We must remember that this legislation is introduced by men who are preoccupied with the belief that the Opposition parties are rolling in money - 
The honourable member for Brisbane says 'Hear, hear'. If the seat of Griffith is abolished and I go after the seat of Brisbane the honourable member will say more than 'Hear, hear'. He will need more than money to save him. But to get back to this point, if we force political parties to provide lists of who has donated to their campaigns and small businesses, or not so small businesses, are on that list, we could well reach the stage in this day and age when some of the more militant extremist trade unions could say: 'If you give to the Liberal 
Party or the Country Party again we will introduce measures in this shop or factory which will be to your disadvantage'. It is all very well for Labor Party members to cite as examples the United States of America and Canada, but the difference is that in Australia the Government of today, the Australian Labor Party, is built on the foundation of the trade union movement. It is shackled to the trade union movement. It is the Labor Party's beginnings and that is where it continues to exist. It is the very roots of the Labor Party organisation. Many members of the Government party have come from the trade union movement and that is the difference. In the United States of America the trade union movement can in some years support the Republicans and in other years the Democratic Party. In Australia, the trade union movement on the whole supports the Australian Labor  Party. When the movement is not happy with the Government it does not turn to the Liberal Party, it just withholds its generous support from the Australian Labor Party. That is its silent protest. 
The fact is that if we provide lists of those who in this country have given money to political parties, they could well be the victim of trade union blackmail. Furthermore, I believe that as a citizen of Australia it is my right to give to the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Country Party, the Democratic Labor Party, the Australia Party, the Liberal Party of Australia and even the Communist Party. It is my right to make a donation without that donation being blazed across the sky for all to see. It is a private act between myself and the recipient party. 
-When the honourable member for Bowman joined the Labor Party I cut off my donations. That was the end of them. I believe that this legislation contains a danger to the right of the citizens of this country to donate to the political party or parties of their choice. 
In 1 974, the Labor Party moaned and groaned at the fact that it appeared that the Liberal Party and the Country Party had more money than the Labor Party had. But in 1972, the Australian Labor Party had far more money at its disposal than did the Liberal Party and Country Party team. The fact is that the level of money donations to political parties indicates the feelings of persons to the government of the day. If people who are interested in politics do not believe that the Australian Labor Party is doing a good job for Australia- I know that 3 1 1 000 people who are unemployed at least will testify to that fact- they will switch their donations to another political party. Yet, regrettably, the Minister for Services and Property and those who sit behind him regard donations to political parties as sinister and something that must be stopped at all costs, particularly if people wish to make those donations to the Liberal Party and the Country Party. 
I conclude simply by asking the Minister to think out clearly what he is doing. It may be to the advantage of the Government today to stop the Liberal Party and the Country Party. It may be to the Government's advantage because it has vast machinery available to it through the enslaved Australian Public Service which has no alternative but to do what the Government tells it to do. The Government also has the facilities which it has opened in each State at which people, paid by the Australian taxpayer, service the Australian Labor Party. But every doggy has his day. The day of this Government will come at the next election when it will lose access to aU these benefits. The Liberal Party and the Country Party Will be back in power. If the honourable member for Grayndler, the Minister for Services and Property, who has been here since 1943 and acts as though he came here in 1873, is still a member, he will be bleating from this side of the House about the unfair advantages that the new government has over his Party. At that time, let him reflect on the legislation that he has introduced this week for the short term advantage of his Party. That legislation will stifle democracy in this country in the future. In my view, this is a most retrograde step. 
The Opposition extended courtesy to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  believing that he had only another line to read. I remind the Minister of the forms of the House. On this side of the House we are always willing to give Ministers permission to make statements during the day so that they do not use up private members' time for political reasons. I want to refer to the humbug of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last Sunday evening when he went on television. I support my friend the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  in his comments and criticisms of the Prime Minister's plea for the continuation of convention. Last Sunday evening the Prime Minister concluded his address by asking the people of New South Wales to telephone their members of Parliament. My telephone at home in Brisbane ran hot with Brisbane people telephoning me and asking me to tell Whitlam what to do when I saw him this week. I am too much of a gentleman to tell him in this House but when I get an opportunity I shall do so. I want to refer to a speech made by the Prime Minister in 1955. 
It was made by our Prime Minister. If ever there were a reason for our State governments to have absolutely no trust in the Labor Government's appointment to the High Court, that is conveyed in the message which the Prime Minister made loud and clear in that year. The Prime Minister gave a speech to the Australian Institute of Political Science. Because of certain criticisms in this chamber the Prime Minister repeated the text of that speech in this House 20 years ago on 1 June during the debate on the Judges' Remuneration Bill.  His  speech to the Australian Institute of Political Science was made in response to a speech delivered by the then member for Warringah,  Mr Bland,  who had delivered a paper entitled 'Parliamentary Government and Liberty'. I want all honourable members to sit while I read this extract from  Mr Whitlam  's speech. I want them to consider his words of advice at that time in the light of what has happened today. The Prime Minister stated: 

 Mr Bland believes that the High Court provides some safeguards for our liberties; I doubt it. The Court is less representative of the Australian people than are their elected parliamentary representatives. Judges are irresponsible in that they hold office for life, which is sometimes a very long life. Some have used that asset for a political purpose. I recall 2 flagrant examples where resignations were withheld until there was a change of government. Early in 1 950 one judge retired in the last month of his 80th year and another retired on his 87th birthday; and neither was as active or as liberal minded as Oliver Wendell Holmes, Junior. 
We are constrained by our present Federal Constitution to leave the final disposition of many matters in the hands of lawyers. We are forbidden to do not so much what the Constitution forbids us to do but what the judges forbid us to do. 
If Counsel has to advise if a certain action is constitutional he is less concerned with the Constitution than with the composition of the Court. 
-No, he was not drunk because in 1973 in this Parliament I made a speech in which I used some of those quotations. On 12 September I asked the Prime Minister what he thought of the speech I had made. He described it as being splendid and I can understand that. It is contained in the Hansard report of question time of 12 September. In the limited time left I say that  Mr Tom  Lewis has every reason to be frightened at the appointment to the High Court of ex-Senator Murphy, now  Mr Justice  Murphy. I am not casting aspersions on him,  Mr Speaker.  But from the Prime Minister's mouth has come the condemnation of our system. At a time when our States are so threatened by a government which is bent on the destruction of the States can we blame them for being concerned and for taking measures to protect themselves in the current climate? 
In speaking in support of the views of honourable members on this side of the House I feel it is appropriate to remind the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that the LiberalCountry Party teams have been steadfast in their opposition to what he proposes since the day he arrived and set about to nationalise health in this country. Despite his protests, nobody could be convinced that what he has in mind for Australia is anything but a national health scheme based on socialist doctrines to which he himself adheres. 
This Bill seeks to facilitate the financial means of achieving what the Minister proposes and what, regrettably, was passed in the Joint Sitting of the Parliament after the 1974 Federal election. Regrettably in his second reading speech on this occasion the Minister said that Medibank had been the subject of a prolonged campaign of deliberate misrepresentation conducted principally by those with vested self interest in the preservation of the present inefficient, inequitable and very costly health insurance scheme. Well, I can say to the Minister that the only vested self interest I have in health is the retention of a system whereby the people I am privileged to represent and I have access to the best possible health treatment. We on this side of the House do not believe that the Government's type of health scheme is in the best interests of the people of this nation. Medibank is still another nail in the coffin of health care. As we have in the past we will continue to oppose all the measures that the Government takes to implement its health scheme. 
One has only to look at the United Kingdom to see how the health system in that country is ailing. It is paralysed. It is not just a case of arthritis; it is almost a case of poliomyelitis. It is crippled. It is claimed in that country that an injection of another Stg500m is needed to save the British health scheme. I emphasise that this is not just $500m but Stg500m. It is also claimed that this amount of money will only get the British scheme back on to its knees again. Yet here we are in Australia, in the tradition of Labor socialism, embarking up on a path which has been proven in other countries to lead to ruin. 
As a Queenslander I want once again to register the protest of the people of my State at the manner in which the Bill will affect them. I have said in this House on previous occasions that it amazes me that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  a fellow Queenslander, can come into this House every couple of months and introduce measures which will do nothing for the people of Queensland but impose a heavy financial burden. I know that the Minister will tell us that a Labor State government introduced the so-called free hospitalisation in Queensland. But it has been a Liberal-Country Party coalition State government which has kept that system alive since 1957. So all the talk and speculation in the early years that the Liberals would abandon free health in Queensland have proven to be incorrect. Honourable members from Queensland in this place and in the other place will be asked to vote on this legislation. The absence of the honourable members for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and another one or two- I do not think there are many left from Queensland these days- underlines their lack of concern on this matter or alternatively they are so flushed with embarrassment that they dare not come into this chamber. 
The fact is that the Minister is imposing upon the people of Queensland another form of taxation to finance his health scheme. He intends to make Queenslanders pay for and contribute to what they already receive without making a contribution. As a member of a private health organisation I presently enjoy such coverage as will allow me to go into public wards, intermediate wards or private wards of a hospital. 
Well, I am quite sure that if I did go into hospital on weekends for psychiatric treatment I would find the honourable member in the bed next to me. But I would be there only occasionally; the honourable member would be there every weekend. As I was saying before my sick friend interrupted me, the people of Queensland have this coverage by contributing to a private health organisation. The Minister seeks to impose upon us a system which will force us through taxation, or in any other way the Government dreams up, to make another contribution that will simply give us access to public wards. If we want to go into an intermediate or a private ward we have to go to a private health organisation and insure for that right. So instead of being knocked with one single barrel as we are now, we have the Minister with his double barrel shotgun firing both barrels at once. 
Furthermore, we should look back at the objections which have been raised over the last couple of years to what the Minister proposes. I ask the Minister: If his name was Clyde Cameron and he was a Minister for Labour and Immigration and had a union objecting so strongly to the proposals of the Government, would he continue to implement those proposals? The entire medical profession almost to a man- with the exceptions of the honourable members for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and a couple of other burnt out medicos who have come into this chamber- is opposed to the introduction of Labor's national health program. Yet, without the promise of co-operation which is necessary for the successful implementation of the program, the Government wanders along the path of socialism determined at all costs to impose its socialistic health scheme upon the people of Australia. When will the Government ever learn? 
In recent weeks the present Government has admitted that many things done in this country in the last couple of years have been wrong and disastrous. Why must we continue with these harebrained schemes at a time when the Government is parading itself as having realised what is needed in this country? The Government is spending $ 1.56m on promotion for its scheme. I suppose such an undertaking is like embarking on a giant program to whip up the crowds to go along and see someone like Chubby Checker who had his day years ago. One would need to spend about $1.5m to enliven interest in him. This Government once again plunders the public coffers simply to embark upon an advertising campaign, and what an advertising campaign it is. As my friend and fellow Queenslander the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  pointed out before, the Minister who authorises the advertisements claims that the scheme is free. He claims that the scheme provides free medical insurance. Yet, earlier the honourable member for Prospect denied that it was a free scheme and acknowledged that everything that is given by governments must be paid for by somebody. On this occasion the Australian public is being forced to pay once again for a scheme that will only partly meet its requirements. The public will have to continue to seek other forms of health coverage. I know that the Minister uses as a justification for the scheme, the argument that there are a number of Australians who presently are not covered by any form of health insurance. It is not very difficult to improve upon the present scheme to ensure that perhaps the half a million Australians who are presently not covered become covered. I see absolutely no sense in completely sinking the ship we have at the moment because of a few slight leaks in the scheme. 
I hope that this legislation will again be blocked in the Senate. I know that the Government is endeavouring to bring about a situation where it can go to the people of Australia and say that it has been frustrated by the Senate. The Government wants to use these grounds as the basis for calling a double dissolution. It wants to be able to say: 'Give us a go again'. I am telling supporters of the Government now that they have had their go for the last 2 years and we promise to look after them when they are defeated and out of office. 
I allude to a matter which is known from Cooktown to Carnarvon and from Weipa even to Wellington as the Morosi affair. Writs of silence are being issued upon the nation's Press almost everywhere to stop the reporting of the latest developments. So much for open government. If there is nothing to hide why is there so much fuss? One reason the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the nation's  deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer, has been thrust into the headlines for some 3 months now is that the saga is able to produce a new chapter of controversy and intrigue on a regular basis. It commenced with the proved claim that the then  Senator Murphy  wrote to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  requesting that Miss Morosi be rocketed out of priority to the top of the list of persons qualifying for a Government flat in the Australian Capital Territory. From that time it has been like the story of Peyton Place. 
I stand on my feet to say publicly what many Government supporters are saying behind cupped hands; that is, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  must act. In the last few hours we have had the spectacle of almost half of the Treasurer's staff resigning or being dismissed as a protest or as a consequence of the activities of Miss Morosi. It is public knowledge that  Mr Geoffrey  Gleghorn, the Treasurer's Press secretary for 6 months, has written a 4-page document entitled: 'Staff Relations in the Treasurer's Office'. For some strange reason that paper has been suppressed. It has been described as a bombshell. There are stories alive that there exists an avalanche of bitter complaint from the top echelon of the Minister's Department to the effect that they can no longer gain proper access to the Treasurer. Where there is smoke there is fire. The claim by the Treasurer in early February that he had a 'kind of love' for Miss Morosi has not settled the rumblings and it is alleged this story is the cause of the Gleghorn dismissal because it caused a furore. 
Today we heard the speech from the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the reply to the claims by the Treasurer. On no less than half a dozen occasions the Minister endeavoured to dismiss the claims of the honourable member for Mackellar by claiming that a person who had supplied the honourable member for Mackellar with a statutory declaration had been this day found guilty by the courts and that the person concerned was not a fit and proper person to be an accuser. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman is out of order in referring to debates that have taken place in this chamber today. 
I thought that debate had finished. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General and allude to the fact that due to a tip-off to the Commonwealth Police that there was to be a break and entry into the home of Miss Junie Morosi, the Commonwealth Police were called out to surround the house. I ask the Minister: Who would have ordered the Commonwealth Police to do a job which is normally the duty of a State police force? Is it correct for this side of the House to take it that if any ministerial staff members or members on the Government side are in trouble in the future they will have the protection of the Commonwealth Police Force? 
I would like to join with the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  in congratulating the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for his efforts to give honourable members of this House a research worker. I draw to the attention of the House the concluding paragraph of a Brisbane 'Courier Mail' editorial dated 27 February in which it is said that this provision is extravagance and that backbench members should be able to do their own research as they have for almost 75 years. About 75 years ago a copy of the Brisbane 'Courier Mail', as did a copy of the Melbourne 'Herald' and other newspapers, cost a penny each. It would be appropriate for me to say that the Queensland newspaper group or the Herald group should be able to sell a newspaper for a penny as they did 75 years ago. 
Why editors must continually attack members of Parliament I do not understand. I can appreciate that at times we are deserving of critical comments, but the volume of work in recent years has increased dramatically. As the Minister told the House the other day, in 1944 members of Parliament were given their first secretary. Now we are to be given a research assistant, some 3 1 years later. If the editors had any understanding of the volume of work which comes on to our tables here in Canberra and in our electorate offices they would not be so fast in shooting from the hip. In conclusion, I say to the person who wrote this editorial, which reeks of misunderstanding, that if he walks into the Press Gallery and Press offices upstairs he will find that most of the Press men, his colleagues here in Canberra, complain about the fact that they can no longer keep up with the volume of work. One Press man I spoke to about the editorial said: 'What is he talking about in Queensland? We even have research officers to help us in our duties '. 
-The Opposition broadly supports the National Health Bill (No. 2). There is a syndrome whereby the Government is altering all legislation to accommodate those people who are unemployed. There are pregnant women and unemployed persons involved. If those people voted Labor at the last election, surely they would provide the definition of a 3-time loser. 
Well,  Sir, I  will do that. I will not labour the point, but it is a tragedy that we have to alter all this nation's legislation to accommodate the unemployed because if the Government had been more careful in the past - 

<graphic href="093131197503050_54_7_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503050_54_7_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Opposition opposes this Bill even at the third reading stage. We believe that what is contained in this Bill will lead to the ultimate destruction of the private health organisations and thus facilitate the introduction into Australia of the Government's scheme called Medibank, Medicare, or Medibotch, which many of us believe it will be. The reason why we are so rigid in our opposition is that we have studied what has happened in the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and also in Sweden. A study of what has happened in those places has led us to the conclusion that, whilst the Government may be well motivated in the belief that its health scheme will not get out of hand, in practice there is no way of containing the costs of a national health plan such as that proposed by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and that this in itself will be destructive not only of medicine and health care in Australia but also of the economy of this nation. 
We believe that the Government, through the advertising in which it has been indulging in the past, has been filling people with expectations which really when examined closely are nothing other than a perpetuation of a fraud. The cost of the Government's health scheme will be far greater than the Minister has told the nation. Looking at the situation in the United Kingdom, we find that that country is required to spend nearly Stg3,000m on its health scheme. In the early days of that scheme the British socialists, the equivalent of the Australian Labor Party, did not foresee that the cost of the scheme would rise so astronomically. The position in England today is that the British health scheme is being crippled and. those reponsible are screaming out for the injection of another Stg500m to save it and to get it back on its knees. Yet the present Federal Government in Australia is embarking on the same course of madness. 
The cost of the United States Medicare system has turned out to be some eleven times more than the cost originally projected. The Minister for Social Security cannot assure this House or the Australian people that the same will not happen to the national health scheme which is being proposed here. 
-That is right; it is eleven times more in that country. The concern that motivates me and other members on this side of the House in continuing our opposition to the Government's proposal for a health scheme is that in the long term it will be the poor people, the little people, who will be hurt most. A situation will be created in which people will overuse the available health care and, as in other countries, the system will be subjected to stresses and strains with which it simply will not be able to cope. The system will break down and it will be the little people who will suffer most. 
I believe that the world experience has been such as to present us with a lesson. We should discontinue our walk along the road of madness and our efforts to completely dismantle and destroy the existing scheme. I ask the Minister for Social Security who is sitting at the table: Why does he introduce this legislation right on the eve of the introduction of his so-called scheme? Why does he do this if he is so confident that Medibank will get off the ground on 1 July? The Government is plundering the public coffers in using $ 1.56m to promote and advertise the Australian Labor Party's health program. I recall clearly the present Minister for Social Security standing up when we were in government and asking the then Minister for Health whether action would be taken to ensure that the private health funds did not use one cent of the contributors' money for the promotion of anti-ALP health scheme propaganda. The then Minister for Health rightly assured the questioner that this was not the case and the funds were not allowed to use contributors' money for that purpose. Yet, today the present Government is prepared to plunder Australian taxpayers' funds to promote its health scheme. If there ever was inconsistency, it is here today for all to see. 
My good friend the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and other speakers on this side of the House have pointed out that the situation would not be quite as painful if the advertising being engaged in was honest and true. But the Government is engaging in a false advertising campaign. I fear that many gullible people in our society will believe the assurances of the Minister for Social Security that his health program will be good, when in fact we already have all the signs that the introduction of such a scheme will be disastrous to the health care of this nation. 
Let us be honest and realistic about what the Government is doing. The Australian Labor Party is a socialist party hellbent on the destruction of everything that is non-government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  can speak in Sydney every Friday of the week and assure private enterprise that Labor cares about it; but representatives of private enterprise have only to come into this chamber and examine the type of legislation that is introduced to see the real motives of honourable members on the Government side. The Government will continue to drive every nail it can into the coffin which it has constructed with its own hands for private enterprise. The Bill which we are discussing in the third reading stage is simply a Bill to enclose private enterprise- this time the private health funds. The Government has set out to destroy completely and to tear down the funds so that it can introduce its Medibank scheme. The Government wants the private health funds destroyed because it lives m fear that if it loses the next election- and it cannot come quickly enough- a government formed from people now on this side of the House will tear down the Medibank system if it is under way by then. The Government is trying to destroy the framework on which we can  rebuild  a sane health care program. 
One of the facts which should be noted in this debate tonight is this: Had the Government not been so reckless in its handling of the economy of this nation, a Bill such as the one we have before us this evening would not even be before the House for discussion. When they look at the downturn in almost every area of manufacturing industry in the last couple of years, members on the Government side should hang their heads in shame. The Australian Labor Party, when in Opposition, roared like the bull of hope. In government it has been the means of destruction of so much that had a stable existence prior to it coming to office. 
I want to throw a constructive thought into the debate tonight. I refer to something which is not actually included in the Bills but which should be, namely, the sales tax classification of taxis. I do not know how many vehicles are used in Australia solely as taxis. There must be thousands upon thousands. I suggest to the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that consideration be given to the reclassification of these vehicles for sales tax purposes from private vehicles to commercial vehicles. The Government parades itself as representing the party which cares about people, particularly people in the lower income groups. Regrettably, one of the facts of life is that people in the lower income groups are living more and more on the outskirts of some of our huge cities. These people possibly use taxis more than the more affluent people who are able to afford the prices that are set today for inner city living. It is the poorer people who are forced to use taxis at times when public transport is not available. 
Because of the policies of the present Government wages have rocketed to such a degree that, whether transport be in the hands of the government sector or the private sector, fares are rising so rapidly and losses have increased so rapidly that there has been a total rearrangement of bus and tram timetables and these services are stopping earlier and earlier. As a result, people are forced more and more to take taxis. I know that the Government wishes to get this legislation through this chamber this evening. Therefore I will be brief in my contribution. I respectfully suggest to the Treasurer, who is sitting at the table, that if he reclassified taxi cabs for sales tax purposes he would be making a contribution to holding the fares which are rising continually. Further, he would encourage taxi cab owners to buy new vehicles more frequently than they do at present. Because of the sales tax component in the price of a new vehicle, taxi cab owners today think in terms of their vehicle travelling about 200 000 miles before they sell it. 
-It depends on where one comes from. I imagine that taxi plates would not be worth a razoo in the area from which the honourable member comes. But in the city of Brisbane they are worth some $16,000. It is probably inappropriate to say this, but I believe that a taxi licence should not be a commodity which can be sold to another driver. If a driver has to pay $ 16,000 for a licence in the first place, it means that he has to service his capital outlay and this will be a component in the fare. I believe that taxi licences should be issued by State governments and when the drivers no longer wanttocontinuedrivingtheyshouldbe  handedbackin.Thisalsowouldmakeacon-  tribution to lowering fares. 
It is not for me this evening to speak on the role of State governments, but one of the great tragedies of the present Government is its practice of far too frequently poking its big nose into areas which are more the responsibility of State governments. 
I do not intend to delay the House for more than a few moments. This building is to be constructed in the Federal electorate of Griffith. When the Standing Committee on Public Works met in Brisbane to discuss it, I had intended to attend, but regrettably the level of unemployment that has racked this country was such that my office and my staff were completely enveloped in assisting the needy and I could not walk out of my office at the time. I had to stay and help, and therefore I did not appear before the Committee. It must be borne in mind that this proposed work was projected back in 1972 at the initiative of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. As far as I am concerned as the member for the area in which it is to be constructed, it can do nothing but good. On behalf of the people of Griffith I say that we will be quite proud to have this construction in the area. We wish the Australian Broadcasting Commission all the best in its future productions when the project is finished. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to refer to the tragedy of South Vietnam and South-East Asia and my comments follow the remarks of our friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  Government members and those who sit behind them are seeking today to condone their actions of recent years by holding up small children and saying: 'Look what we are doing for the orphans. We are humanitarians. Our conscience is clear'. 
I believe that if we turn back the hands of time for almost a decade it will be seen that the Australian Labor Party placed itself in a position whereby it contributed greatly to the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives in Vietnam in recent years and, in the advent of a successful take-over by the North Vietnamese, will be responsible in some measure for the loss of approximately another one million lives. When we look back at the moratoriums and the many speeches that were made against the so-called 'Free World's' involvement in that area we recall that members of the Government and Labor backbenchers time and time again claimed that the war in Vietnam was an internal matter- a civil war- and that the North Vietnamese were not involved. Regrettably some misguided clergy in our society came out in support of those views. There was naivety, a trust in God but a failure to recognise reality. 
As a result of the moratoriums and the constant pressure, public opinion in this country and in the United States of America swung away from the concept of standing up for right. It became unfashionable to believe that we should stand against aggression from the North in Vietnam. We weakened. We pulled out our troops. The Paris Accords were signed. Agreements were made. The American assistance was withdrawn. But the assistance to North Vietnam from China and from the Soviet Union continued. It continued to such an extent that the South Vietnamese were not fighting just the North Vietnamese. They were fighting also two other major powers. I remind those on the Government side of the House who say that history shows that the Vietnamese and Chinese have historical and cultural differences, that in their own Party expediency dictates at times that they bury their differences and unify for the purpose of power. Honourable members opposite have done that successfully, welding both the right and left wings of their Party together for the last couple of years. How long it will last nobody knows, but it has been done. The same situation exists with Vietnam and China today. Although the countries have cultural differences they have a common purpose, namely, the spreading of the communist philosophy as far and as wide in the South-East Asian region as is possible. 
I predict that should South Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand eventually come under communist control there will be in the future a revival of the ethnic differences. But one goal will have been achieved- that is, the spread of a philosophical belief. One of the great tragedies of the last decade has been that communism has succeeded because vocal elements within our own society have been so effectively outspoken that we fought a war with our hands tied behind our backs. Regrettably, there are elements within the Australian Labor Party, from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairn's)  down- at times I am quite convinced the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  also- who are quite happy to see the spread of communism in this region because they believe it to be the only solution. They talked about the corruption within the Government of South Vietnam. Those who have travelled extensively know that in poorer countries throughout the world regrettably some form of corruption is always evident. This is because the people in those countries do not enjoy the standard of living that we in this country enjoy. It is all right for us, receiving the salaries that we do and living in a nation that is wealthyone of the wealthiest nations in the world- to speak from our lofty heights and to condemn those who have empty bellies and who are prepared to sell themselves at times to try to improve their lot. I would prefer to live in a world in which there was no corruption, but it is unrealistic to believe that the world is without corruption because regrettably the sharing of the world's wealth is not such that this Utopia exists. 
If South Vietnam falls and a million people are massacred by way of reprisals by the communists every member on the other side of the House must share some of the blame. If next Sunday is to be a Sunday of prayer for the orphans of South Vietnam and for those people who have died or will die in the future, let there also be a prayer uttered for forgiveness for those clergy who through a naive approach assisted the friends of communism and the friends of the socialists to win the war of the minds of people in this country and in the United States of America. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  earlier this week very aptly answered a point made by one of the Government Ministers when that Minister said that the only reason the people of South Vietnam were fleeing their villages was because they were frightened of the daisy-cutter bombs. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party pointed out that the people are not heading towards Hanoi but turning south to Saigon. If honourable members opposite have any compassion or any sense of realism they will accept the fact that the vast majority of the people of South Vietnam do not want to fall under the yoke of communism. 
I sent a telegram to  Dr J.  F. Cairns last January when things started to blow up again in Vietnam. I pleaded with him to use his influence on the Hanoi Government to lay off South Vietnam. I pleaded with him to suggest to  Mr Gough  Whitlam that on his way home from his travels through the Greek ruins of Europe he call in at Hanoi and say to the Hanoi Government: 'We are a friendly Government towards your cause; please lay off. '  Dr Cairns  completely ignored that telegram. In recent times, by his public expressions, we have come to know why. He has reaffirmed his belief that that part of the world would be best served by a communist government. Today honourable members opposite sit in silence. They are the men who yesteryear condemned aggression and talked about those who were being murdered. Today because the communists are doing it they say absolutely nothing. They have exposed themselves for what they are- charlatans, shallow men who really only have an interest if the communists are losing. If the communists are winning, it is OK. That is how you have performed and that is how history will record your actions. 
I have sat silently through this debate but a number of things have been said which I believe indicate a curious attitude on the part of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and members of the Government party. I recall winning my seat in the year 1966 and the efforts - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Order!  I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to the proposed new clause. 
-My word, I really will,  Sir. You  just listen. I recall the postal vote vendetta carried on in my electorate in which one of my postal vote workers was run off the road in true Chicago style by a party worker for the Australian Labor Party. 
-That is right. The honourable member should just listen and he will learn. Its played tough in Queensland. I remember Party workers of the Australian Labor Party standing over the aged and the sick and threatening them that if they filled in their postal vote application form before the workers returned to do it for them, anything could happen. In my view, the suggestion of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  is a good suggestion and should be expanded to include more persons than simply those who live in electorates which are larger than 26 000 square kilometres. The aged and the sick who are unable to get to polling booths on polling day should also be included in a register. This would mean that instead of Party workers descending upon the homes of the aged and the sick immediately the green light shines for an election as at present, the electoral officer would send out the application forms and the ballot papers. 
One of the tragedies of this situation in that it is not only the Labor Party which has indulged in these tactics to which I have alluded throughout Australia. All parties have had a hand in such activities at some stage. This is because the system is such that if one is to survive one must join it. The system is a bad system. If we could introduce the system which is suggested by the amendment that has been proposed by the shadow Minister responsible for electoral matters, the honourable member for Curtin, I feel confident that it would prove workable and would not be open to fiddling as has been suggested by my newly arrived friend who is flushed still with the success of his victory less than a year ago in Port Adelaide. The suspicions which are in his mind are inherent in the minds of every Labor Party machine man who, in a position of responsibility, has had to work the system. There is no doubt that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  knows how to work the system because that is why he is filled with so much suspicion. 
I heard the Minister for Services and Property refer indirectly to me some time ago when he spoke of a member of the Liberal Party who had several hundred- I think he used the phrase 'two thousand '-postal vote application forms ready to go out into the electorate last year when the green light was switched on. I have no compunction in admitting to following that system. My friend the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  follows the system also. Members of the Labor Party in Queensland have suggested that I have indulged in an illegal practice, but they say this only before an election because they know that I work within the confines of the law. By sending out the application forms we are eliminating the possibility of the Party workers arriving on the doorstep of the aged, the sick and the crippled, taking away the application form and in a carefully contrived manner systematically submitting the application forms for a certain district on a particular date. They know that the forms will go in that morning and that the electoral officer will post the ballot papers out that night and the Party machine is ready to call at the home of the person next day, just after the postman arrives. What do the party workers say during the first visit? They say: 'Dear, do not fill in that form until I have returned'. Because they have fed the application forms into the electoral officer on a particular morning they know that the ballot papers will be in the homes the next day. That system used to work before the Australian Labor Party took over the Post Office, but these days one never knows when the mail will arrive. The party worker goes back to the home, knowing that the postman has been, and says: 'I was wondering whether - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  That is not a point of order. 
-The truth is that the honourable member for Bowman came to me and said: 'Could I have your system? I have a dickey election coming up'. The party worker arrives at the home of the aged, the sick or the crippled after the postman has been and says: 'I was wondering whether your ballot paper had arrived yet'. Normally it might be still in the letter box, on the sofa or in some other place. Then he says: 'Dear, can I help you fill it out?' That is where the fiddling really starts. 
That is why I believe that the suggestion made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  ought to be extended beyond the open spaces to people who are permanently incapacitated and unable to get to the polling booth. Such an extension would eliminate a situation which presently exists in Australia and which I do not condone. But, while the system exists and the competition is there, I warn all my future opponents that if the seat of Griffith continues to exist they had better move fast because I have learned how to protect myself. However, I make this promise: I will never use gangster methods on people who are unable to protect themselves. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 29 (Inspection of applications). 
I think that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has been a member here since 1943. Obviously he still has a lot to learn. Some people learn as much in 30 years on this earth as the Minister has in his first 65. He disregards the fact that the State rolls are even worse in some cases than the Federal rolls. In Queensland a person can obtain a State roll and every person who had a postal vote at the previous State election, or Brisbane City Council election or local council election, has a little stamp marked next to his name indicating that he had a postal vote or what they call a caller's vote. I forget the exact name they use these days. 
-That is right, an electoral visitor's vote. Therefore the Government will achieve nothing by bringing about this alteration unless it gets total agreement in every State. Personally I would like to see many of the changes that the Government proposes but in reality the Minister has not got his feet on the ground. 
I want to quote some extracts from the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He used such words and phrases as this:  ... a growing need for special purpose economic and social surveys. 
Further on in his speech he used the words:  . . . social surveys for a wide variety of purposes. . . 
Further on again he said: 
Economic statistics and indicators will continue to be of basic importance but social and manpower statistics and data for urban and regional planning must continue to develop. 
On and on he went. Then he said: 
It is further desirable that the Statistician be relieved of the necessity to determine priorities for the multitude of statistical demands being made upon the Bureau. 
Further on he said: . . . there are many other needs yet to be satisfied. 
Another phrase he used was this: . . . demand for statistics and statistical services . . . 
Yet on the first page of his second reading speech he said: 
There is no need for me to argue the virtues . . . 
As far as I am concerned, this country is being bogged down by people who have little more to do than sit in Canberra dreaming up the type of survey that should be done on the following day of the week. I am unlike many of my colleagues who have stood up in this place and said that they are not opposed to the Statistician. I would hope that he regards me as his No. 1 enemy. I have been consistent in my condemnation and my criticism of the manner in which the Australian Bureau of Statistics has expanded in the past. 
During the Prime Ministership of my dear friends, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  I was critical of the Bureau. Let no man cast a stone and say that I am being critical simply because the Labor Party is in power. I am not motivated by politics in this; I am motivated by a deep belief in the right of the individual to retain and maintain a semblance of privacy which I do not believe he is now allowed in this country. The individual's privacy is being eroded further and further. The Special Minister of State, who sits at the table like a deaf mute, would not have introduced this Bill at this time if he was prepared to consider these things. He would have been better to have decided to assure us with more than just promises that he would bring in the concept which he outlined in his second reading speech. 
When I look at the explanatory statement in relation to the regulations under the Census and Statistics Act, Statutory Rules 1970 No. 28, and when I see the manner in which the 1976 census is going to be broadened, it is easy for me to believe that the Government is leaving Snoopy for dead. It has become a big, fat, nosey parker which must stick its nose into every corner of the individual's private life. As my friend, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  pointed out, in the future people are going to be asked what languages they use. How that is going to save the economy I do not know, but the Government might feel that that has something to do with it. People will be asked the range of their weekly or annual income, the age at which they left school, and the social welfare benefits received. I know that there are certain things outlined there which were included in previous censuses, but the scope of the next census is being enlarged. 
As an example of how these things are enlarged, I refer to the household expenditure survey which was recently conducted. I believe that the results of the survey will not be available for some months yet. It is so thick it looks like a guide to Disneyworld in Florida. When this survey was conducted people were not told that it was not compulsory to participate. When I started to draw attention to the questions being asked I was shunned off and told that people do not have to participate in it. The truth is that the people conducting the survey were dishonest in their approach in that they did not say to people: 'You do not have to do this survey but I would like your co-operation'. If that had been the case I would not have bucked, but they did not say that. 
The lame duck excuse presented was that if people are told that it is not compulsory to participate they will not want to do so. I would not blame them, particularly when the survey included such questions as this on instalment credit: 
Are (any of) you currently making regular payments for anything? 
Prompt - 
That is for the questioner- 
Such as car, TV, refrigerator, furniture, encyclopaedia, travel or building extensions. 
The crunch comes on the next page where one finds question 75. The interviewer asks: 
I would now like to ask you about each of these arrangements - 
They say it so sweetly; they are trained as though they were greyhounds at the racetrack, and the moment the gate rises away they go- 
Arrangement l 
What is the name of the lender to which your payments are made? 
The questionnaire even makes provision for it being a family loan. Why should any citizen in this country have to name to some agent of a government a member of his family who is lending him money? I believe that the Government has gone far enough in its prying into the privacy of the individuals of this country. You wonder why I am a little agitated as I present this speech. 
One thing that I am proud of- I know that you are a Liberal too,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  is that all 
Liberal Party and Country Party members who have spoken on this side of the House have been of one accord in their recognition of the fact that the privacy of the people of this nation must be taken into account in the future. Perhaps it is because we now have a socialist government in power and socialists will stop at nothing. Socialists believe that the private life of every individual should be known to government so that it can put the information together and work towards a more acceptable way of life for all people. I reject that concept completely. I do not reject the need for governments to obtain some information in order to plan for the future but I would like to know what good reason there is for requesting John Citizen to provide information about which member of his family lent him money. 
I remember when the last census was held. I would not say that the census collectors were a motley mob because a lot of them live in my electorate, but they were people simply plucked out of our society who applied for a job. I do not think that they are really screened. They are given a stack of forms and out they go to bang on people's doors to SOliCit information. I went, accidentally, to the home of one census collector a few short years ago and I was alarmed to see the stack of forms on the floor in the family living room. 
-The honourable member should have asked the census collectors that question because they had all the other information. The privacy of the people supplying the information was not being respected as it should have been. There was another case in my electorate when one of my constituents was singled out for one of those surveys in which the questioner returns three or four times. He went to school with the woman who was the interviewer. I know that the Special Minister of State will say that the interviewers are sworn to secrecy, but why should that person have to divulge all the private details of his life and of the lives of members of his family just to satisfy a government requirement? If a person does not supply the information required by some of the surveys he could well be subjected to a prison sentence or a heavy fine. 
If the Government intends to make laws requiring people to give other people a lot of private information, surely in return the Government should establish something more than an ad hoc collection service made up of odds and sods. I will bet that the Minister for Labor and 
Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  under his Regional Employment Development scheme, gives people work as census collectors. Some of the nation's greatest hobos and no-hopers could be out now beating on doors throughout Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide collecting information. I do not accept that the system is much better than that. Furthermore, the Department of the Special Minister of State is making unreasonable demands upon the people for information. I am known in the State of Queensland as one who does not readily cooperate with every request of the Statistician. Farmers have written to me saying:  'Mr Cameron,  I have been asked to supply information, and the information is of such a nature that I will require the services of an accountant to put it together. ' 
-My friend, the honourable member for Port Adelaide says: 'Show me the letter'. I can assure him that these letters have appeared in the Brisbane 'Courier Mail', so he should not for a moment doubt the claims I am making here today. Let him ask the Queensland Statistician. He will verify what I have said. The facts are that, in the depressed economic situation under which we exist now that Labor has come to power, farmers have had to sack many of their staff and farm hands and have had to work on the farms themselves. They come in weary at night and are expected by the Government to sit down and spend hours filling forms so that somebody back in the deep south can spend his day feeding information into a computer to satisfy the whim possibly of a smalltime clerk who thought that that would be a good idea. 
In the north we talk about Canberra as the deep south. One cannot blame the people in Canberra for everything because they are directed by the Government which is presently in power. This afternoon we are discussing the extent of the Department's intrusions into liberty. I am almost fearful that the Australian Bureau of Statistics will become a statutory body and that this Parliament will have absolutely no control over it. The amendment moved by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is the Opposition's spokesman on these matters, is a most sensible amendment in that it will bring back to this Parliament certain controls. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Department is growing larger every week and more and more people are being employed by it. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Bureau of Statistics has grown to become one of the larger bodies in the Australian Public Service. 
If this is the trend, government intrusion into the lives of individuals will expand. The assurances that collectors have tight lips and that the information will never be divulged do not satisfy me. A line must be clearly drawn to define what information collected by a government is legitimate and what is not. 
We do not have to turn back too far in history to recall the times when people had numbers on their arms. If we continue to sit idly by we will build a society in which people may not have visible numbers tattooed on their bodies but by pressing one or two buttons on a computer information will be spilled out that will completely pinpoint an individual. I believe strongly in the right of the citizenry of this country to retain its private information. I cannot accept what previous governments have done in collecting information and certainly I can only reject the expansion of that collection which the present Government has in mind. I conclude with the thought that if the Special Minister of State intends to introduce a supplementary Bill in the near future, he should listen to what I am about to say. If the Minister intends to introduce a supplementary Bill I hope that he will do it in the very near future. I hope that he will take note of the comments made by honourable members on this side of the House because I believe that they echo the views of the vast majority of Australians. 
I support my friend, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in this amendment. I know that the Minister has stated that one of the reasons the Government opposes the amendment is that there will be times when the Parliament is not sitting and the Government might want to collect information urgently. I reject that as expediency. When the privacy of an individual in this nation is at stake, I am not prepared to adopt a departmental attitude whereby individuals hardly count and permission is given without some safety brake. Regretfully, under both Liberal and Labor Governments, we have seen an expansion into the privacy of the individual- an erosion of the individual's liberty and rights. The amendment moved by the honourable member for McPherson is the way to check it. 
It is certain that if people who devise new proposals are aware of the fact that these proposals have to walk the gauntlet and that greater interest has been taken in the privacy of the individual, they will certainly be more careful in the type of questions that they ask. In the case which I cited earlier, and to which the Minister did not refer, people were asked to name the member of the family who had lent them the money to go for a holiday. Things like that cannot be justified. While such things slip through, I believe we have a duty to give the nation as much protection as possible. 

 -Mr Speaker, I desire to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to refer to a speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 2 October 1972 at the shipyards of Evans Deakins Industries Limited, as it was then. I shall read an extract in the light of what the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who is the shadow Minister for Transport, has said and in light of the fact that the Government is on this occasion placing orders for ships outside this country. I shall read the last part of the Prime Minister's speech to the assembled workers at the yard. He said: 
I thank you very much for turning out in such numbers and being so attentive while I have been able to talk to you before this House of Representatives election at the biggest company, the biggest employer, the biggest works in Brisbane. 
I do ask you, not only to yourselves, but if people know you work for Evans Deakin, they know that a great deal of the future of this city, of secondary industry in this city, for apprentices and skills, the future of people interested in industry in Queensland, in Brisbane, depends on the future of this the largest employer in Queensland except Mt Isa Mines themselves. 
He went on, and this is the crunch: 
You ought to have a future here. Only the Australian Labor Party offers a future to you. I believe if people know you work here and you tell them in the pub or at the football or whatever one does in summer up here what the future is here, what a difference it makes to you and this company. . . . 
So he goes on and on and urges them to vote for such historic names as Eddie Foat, Joe McDonald, Len Keogh in Bowman, etc. He was imploring the workers of Evans Deakin to vote Labor in 1972 because if they did so they would be guaranteed a good deal under the Labor Party as far as shipping was concerned. At that time I think we had approximately 6 shipbuilding yards in Australia. 
We had six at that time, and since that time the Adelaide Ship Construction company has closed down, Walkers Ltd in Queensland has closed down and Evans Deakin was forced to make an announcement that because of the economic policies of the present Government it could no longer continue constructing ships. The great promise! 
-Shameful, as the honourable member for Mallee interjects. We are today supporting this Bill not out of expediency but out of necessity to allow the Australian National Line to borrow some US$68m to enable it to pay for 2 bulk ore carrier vessels which are due for delivery in 1976 and 1977. The Opposition has already stated that it will support the Bill but, through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I tell the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Stewart),  who is at the table and who fortunately is not like the rest of the ministry, that it is high time the present Government recognises that slowly but surely it is tearing the Australian shipbuilding industry apart. The tragedy is that as each shipbuilding yard closes this nation loses a capacity in the event of war and in peacetime to construct ships. The world's largest island is lacking the capacity to produce its own vessels, and that situation has been created by the policies of the Government of which the Minister is a member. 
That situation is upon us because of the inept attitude which the Government and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  have taken. I know that the Minister's idea is to placate the 
Seamen's Union of Australia by getting as many ships as possible carrying the Australian flag around the Australian coastline. It creates a great feeling of nationalism. We see in our harbours and our rivers in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane ships which have painted on their sterns not 'Amsterdam' or some other place but 'Sydney', 'Melbourne' or 'Brisbane'. That is tremendous and it creates great pride. But the Government in its policies completely contradicts because while it is building up the number of ships in our waters it is tearing down something else. 
I clearly recall an incident which occurred prior to the 1974 election when I was in the company of  Sir Charles  Court, the Premier of Western Australia. We were walking through the Evans Deakin shipyards and the men who were left in those shipyards were saying: 'AH we want is work'. Since then we have seen a number of orders placed outside this country. To my mind the Government is totally inconsistent in its application of principles. As I said earlier, the Government is trying to build something up on the one hand and is tearing it apart on the other. 
As the Treasurer said in his second reading speech, this is the fist occasion on which the Austrlian National Line has had to go overseas to borrow money to finance the purchase of a vessel. Those of us who pay attention to the proceedings in this House and are aware of what is going on outside know that at this very moment the Army has been told to stop spending because there is no money left. We know that if a person goes to borrow his entitlement under the Defence Service Homes Act for what is commonly known as a war service home, he will be told to go to a bank or a building society to borrow the money and the Government will guarantee to pay back the loan when it is able to do so. This illustrates another area of bankruptcy in the Government. 
We are being forced today to give our approval to a Bill which will entitle the Government on behalf of the ANL to negotiate for the loan of $68m simply to purchase 2 vessels, it is a disgrace that in  2lh  years this country has been run down to a stage where we are forced to embark on this kind of measure. We are to borrow overseas to finance the purchase of ships because we do not have the money to pay for them and at the same time we talk about compensation schemes which will cost at least $ 1,500m and other schemes which will in total cost another $2,000m on top of the expenditure that this nation is already endeavouring to meet. Where is it going to end? 
The Opposition supports this BUI but it does not let the opportunity pass to protest at the fact that the Australian shipbuilding industry is but a shadow of what it was yesteryear. The Opposition further protests at the eventual high cost to the Australian consumer of this high altruistic sense of nationalism. It is time that the Government stopped in its tracks and looked at what is happening to the shipping industry in the world. At this very time several very large tankers are tied up around the world with no work to do. The oil crisis or the sudden rise in oU prices has meant that consumption, particularly in Europe, has fallen by I think about 8 per cent. Where a tanker would cost up to even $1 lm for a voyage only a  few months ago owners are now ready to contract to carry a load at even $800,000. It would appear that we are fast reaching the stage where the world will possess an excess tonnage of shipping. Something that the socialists do not understand is the rule of supply and demand. If there is an excess tonnage in the world the cost of shipping and the cost of transporting goods to or from the world's largest island Will drop dramatically. But these facts are of little interest to a Government which is hell bent, in the name of nationalism, on tearing to pieces some of the stability which this nation previously enjoyed. 
Today I wish to spend the few minutes allotted to me to express some concern about the direction in which we as a nation are being steered by the present socialist Government. I refer to Christianity for a start. I do not stand here today and parade myself as a great Christian, but I believe that Australia, as a Christian country, should not have interference by the Government to such an extent that it would steer Australia away from Christianity. If Australians wish to continue to be Christians, that is their own private business; I do not believe it is the role of government to interfere in this area. 
The first matter I refer to is the Medibank form which was placed in everybody's letter box in the last week or so with a booklet containing a letter from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The Minister does not profess to be a Christian- I do not know what he is- but that is his business and his right. What I object to is the Minister's using his position to place on the form which citizens will use to make application for a refund of medical expenses only the words 'given name'. The Government has eliminated 'Christian name'. I believe that it would have been more appropriate if the form had been worded 'Christian/given names' because people would have an opportunity to choose for themselves. 
-My heathen friend opposite with the beard who represents the seat of Kingston would not understand what we are talking about, but I am quite sure that come the next election he will no longer be a representative in this Parliament. 
The other matter I refer to is the discrimination in the application of the National Employment and Training scheme (NEAT). We all know that under the Australian Labor Party's emergency proposals to try to minimise the unemployment which is wracking this country it has introduced 2 schemes called the National Employment and Training scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme. Under the NEAT scheme a person can be trained to become almost anything from a dog catcher to a doctor. 
If it were possible to be trained as a politician I am sure that the honourable member should go back to school for a couple of years, because he has not made much of a mark on this place since he has arrived. I have received a letter from a constituent who lives in the Federal electorate of Bowman. It is not Uke me to cross the border of my electorate, but I received this letter from an ex-serviceman: 
Dear  Sir, 
I have just completed 6 years in the Australian Regular Army, for the greater part of that time I was employed in the catering capacity as a cook. Over the last 3 years of my engagement, I became very involved with Christian youth work in civilian life. It was during in this time in which I saw the need that I should continue full time in the work after my discharge from the Army. To enter this particular field of ministry through the Baptist Theological College of Queensland, I am required to do a minimum of 2 years full time college. At that stage under rehabilitation, Army officers inform me that I could receive financial assistance from the Government while undertaking this course. When the NEAT scheme replaced the old scheme I was assured that assistance would be given under the new scheme. Right up until I was discharged last month the Education Officers were still telling me that I would have no problems whatsoever in receiving assistance under 'retraining' for this work. Now I am told that the present Federal Government has decided not to grant assistance to those desiring to attend Theological Colleges. 

 Mr Williams went on to ask the question: 'Why?'. In these times, when the generosity of the Government is excelled only by the number of unemployed in this country I ask why discrimination against people wishing to enter theological colleges should be practised. As I said earlier, a person can be trained to be a dog catcher or anything else he wishes at Government expense and be paid $93 a week. A person can be retrained to become a social worker and at the end of that training might be in the employ of a State, local or Federal government. Alternatively a person might be in the employ of private enterprise. But at these times, when there is a decrease in the number of people of all denominations wishing to enter the ministry- there is a great shortage of such people- the argument which applies to the refusal to allow people to become lawyers, the argument being that there is a surplus of people in the legal profession, does not apply. I believe that this is simply an extension of anti-Christian attitudes by this present Federal Government. I know that there are people on both sides of this Parliament who profess- and rightly so- to be greater Christians than I. But as they are on the Government side, and in great numbers, and have been told of these happenings, if they are true men at least they should have the character or the courage to stand up in their Party room and demand the removal of this discrimination. 
In other times I would never be an advocate of the Government financing people into the ministry. If people want to enter the ministry, that is their business. But at a time such as we are going through now, and through which we have been going for the last year or so, when so many people are being financed by the Government to retrain themselves, to re-educate themselves for the purpose of a new career, I see the Government's action as simply being discriminatory. As I pointed out earlier, the same situation applies to the Government taking the lead in the removal of the words 'christian name' in the Medibank form. I am told that it has also been removed from passports and other forms. I do not think that the Government has the right to take this course and I am sure that the majority of Australians would agree with my view. 
This Bill which proposes the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is causing honourable members on this side of the chamber considerable concern. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  in the second reading debate- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)  - Order! The honourable member is allowed to debate only the title of the Bill in clause 1 . 
I have not come to that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  As long as the honourable member restricts his remarks to that aspect he will be in order. Once he departs therefrom he will be out of order. 
That is right,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but a rose by any other name. As far as the Opposition is concerned the AGIC is something which justifiably fills the hearts of people in the free enterprise world with fear. In an earlier speech an honourable member on the Government side referred to so-called false campaigns being waged by insurance companies. That by its very nature is- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I uphold the point of order and draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that only limited debate can take place on the clause relating to the title of the Bill. 
I understand that. I am simply talking about the name of the Bill. Contrary to the point of order raised I believe that the very name of the Bill is in itself reason for debate. As I said, there is justification for fear in the hearts and minds of people who believe in the free enterprise system. Those organisations which have put their money into fighting the passage of this Bill have every democratic right to fight against it. They have every right to fight against the name of this Bill which is cited as the 'Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill 1975 '. Contrary to the views the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  expressed some time ago, the Government never ceases to spend money to promote Bills such as this and - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The clause is not pertinent to the amount of money which the Government spends. That has no connection with the title of the Bill. 
I will wind up my remarks,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  What I am trying to say is that free enterprise has every right to fight against this Bill because it recognises, despite the assurances of the Governnment, that it is out to destroy private enterprise. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Commencement). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Commissioner to the International Whaling Commission in 1974 vote 'No' at the technical committee stage of the proceedings to a quota of 725 on the Antarctic Fin Whale with 6 area divisions, and 'Yes' at the same committee to a quota of 1000 with the same area divisions, thus voting the death of another 275 Fin Whales which are classified as an endangered species by the International Union on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. 
The amendment which has been circulated in my name meets, I believe, with the majority viewpoint of this Committee. Many people in the Parliament believe that the 12 months separation period is wrong and many people in the Parliament believe that it should be extended to 24 months when only one partner to the marriage is seeking divorce. That is a fairly common view in this chamber and it is a view which is contrary to that expressed in the provisions of the Bill as it now stands. But there are members of the Parliament who are totally opposed to the reintroduction of the blame concept. If ever it was to be confirmed in my mind that the amendment standing in my name is correct, it was after listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who preceded me in the debate and who claimed that sub-clause (c) of his amendment was very much like that moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I do not intend to resort to personalities but those honourable members who are proposing the amendments which the honourable member for Lilley acclaimed and embraced are the people who constituted that one-third of the members of this House who did everything they could to block the passage of the Bill a few weeks ago. 
-Even if it does not apply to the Minister - = 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  This is a very emotional subject for some. As I said at the outset, there are many honourable members who believe that portion of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth deserves acceptance but, as the procedures of the Parliament dictate, we must accept all of his amendment or none of it. I believe that the proposition he is advocating in an effort to increase from 12 months to 24 months the period of separation necessary when only one partner to the marriage wants a divorce is very good. It would be a pity to lose that improvement through the continuation of the blame concept. 
I believe that I speak for the vast majority of Australians when I say that they want to see an end to blame. The honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Wentworth, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the honourable member for 
Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  want to see the continuation of the blame concept. They are going to great lengths to have it continued. They argue the ground of a woman or a man who has acquired a partner who has developed or who possesses homosexual tendencies is required to continue that marriage for at least a year. Other speakers have pointed out that clause 1 14, the injunction clause, gives the type of protection which is necessary to see out the 12 months if the partner say: 'O.K., it will not work. We will obtain a divorce '. The other partner may say: 'There is no divorce until the law forces it upon us. You take me as I am '. 
I believe that this amendment is the amendment to settle the problems. I challenge the earlier comments of the honourable member for Blaxland that the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth was a good compromise. Surely, in a Bill of this nature, we should not be simply seeking a compromise so that both sides have honour. What we are doing today will determine the life style and life pattern of people for years to come. It is a vital issue. I reject the concept of a compromise. 
I wish to refer to some of the points raised by my Queensland colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who made continuing reference to the age of our judges and to the possibility of judges sitting in judgment on matrimonial cases for many years. 
He referred  to  82-year-old judges. I cannot recall the honourable member in this Parliament having advocated a change in our Constitution to remove the problem which exists in the High Court of Australia whereby judges, according to our Constitution, do not have to retire because of age. If he sees this as a problem a lot of Australians would agree with him.  Mr Justice  McTiernan who is well into his eighties is generally loved by his legal colleagues. He is a living example. One honourable? member has suggested in some instances it is virtually life after death, and we can equally; apply that argument in respect of judgments which come from our High Court. Yet there are few people in this Parliament who advocate a change in our Constitution by way of referendum  to  overcome this problem. In the past I have constantly advocated an age barrier in our Constitution to force High Court judges to retire at 70. So in my mind that argument is not valid. If judges of the High Court are allowed to continue to sit as judges that should apply also to judges of the Family Court. On the other hand, my very strong personal view is that all judges should retire at about 70 years of age regardless of whether th_ey.be judges of the Family Court, the High  Court  or any other court. 
The honourable member for Moreton made reference to the difficulties in Queensland, and as a Queenslander I am very much aware of them. I recall my opposition in this Parliament to the Superior Court of Australia Bill on the ground that federal judges would have- great difficulty getting into the far outback of Queensland. However, in South Australia a Family Court such as is proposed by this Bill is already, in existence and works well. In respect of the State courts, the honourable member for Moreton advocated that matrimonial matters be left in. the hands of State judges. When one looks at the- background of some of the existing judges One has grounds for seriously questioning their ability. to adjudicate in the arena of family law. They are steeped in the tradition of either criminal law or other aspects of the law. Suddenly would be thrust upon them the job of adjudicating upon the questions which would be raised in a family court. The disappearance of this clause from the Bill would mean that most of the concepts incorporated in the Bill would be rendered useless. Far be it for me to say that the members of this Parliament who are totally opposed to the Bill have employed every measure and means to try to lessen its effectiveness. I would not say that. But that has crossed my mind in- relation to a number of members of this -House. Therefore reluctantly, while still adhering to the principle that I advocated and held in relation to the establishment of a Superior Court, I find myself on the side of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  on this occasion. I suggest that a lot of the opposition to the establishment of a Family Court is nothing but sheer and utter humbug. 
-In the debate this evening on the motion for the adjournment of the House I wish to raise an issue concerning an article contained in last weekend's 'Sunday Mail'. The article was written by a respected senior reporter of that newspaper. The article was titled: 'Secret federal check on Queensland police'. The article went on to suggest that federal police are visiting Brisbane's massage parlours and contacting prostitutes in a search for background information which they hope will harm members of the Queensland Police Force. This matter relates to a survey that is also being conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician. Apparently a survey is being conducted into unreported crime. I am rather amazed at the attitude of the Federal Government, which has been made known through the statements referred to by  Mr Alan  Underwood when he questioned the Statistician as to the contents of the survey. My friend the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  on whose side I am once again to be found, and others expressed concern during a recent debate on the role of the Statistician at the area into which censuses are being conducted and Government officials are probing.  Mr Underwood  asked  Mr May,  a Queensland officer of the Commonwealth Statistician, for details of the survey.  Mr May  said: 
The survey documents are confidential. I cannot disclose the questions. 
I confess to not having informed and advised the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that I intended to speak on this subject, which I should have done because the Australian Bureau of Statistics comes under his control. But in view of the goings on in the House today I failed to raise it with him. I express deep concern at the fact that the Statistician is now conducting surveys in relation to which the questions being asked are described and classified as being confidential. I ask: What right has the Government to instigate these surveys when it is unprepared to make public contents of the questions which are being asked of members of the public? The practice of conducting surveys is growing. I hope that this short contribution tonight will be recognised as one in which a member of this Parliament is speaking out not only for the rights of the individuals but also for the rights of a nation. 
We know that some surveys are compulsory and that persons who refuse to answer the questions can well be subjected to a line. If this is the case, and it is the case, what right has the Government to withhold the content of the surveys from the public or even from the Press. It is totally wrong. I hope that this speech will be drawn to the attention of the Treasurer and that, if he agrees with my sentiments, he will take the necessary measures to ensure that the cloak of secrecy which has been placed on this survey, at a time when the Labor Government boasts of open government, is torn away. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made a most unjust and unwarranted attack when he pointed out that only about a dozen honourable members were in the chamber. I know for a fact that many honourable members are in their offices listening to every word said during the course of this debate by the honourable member for Mackellar and other honourable members. I believe that this amendment should be incorporated in the Bill in order to spell out clearly what we accept and what we reject. There is no change proposed to the present order by the honourable member for Mackellar. I suppose it is strange that in the course of this debate this is but the second occasion on which he and I have been of one accord. I do not see this suggested amendment affecting the Bill. It would simply continue a safeguard. Therefore I support my friend, the honourable member for Mackellar, and the other honourable members who have spoken in support of the amendment. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  invites an honourable member to convince him that the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should be opposed. I think a close examination of his own utterances would convince him of that which he seeks. Honourable members who oppose this amendment are not against motherhood; they are not against the protection of small children. But in all seriousness I ask: How can an amendment be proposed which deals with 'the need to protect the position of a woman who wishes only to continue her role as a wife and mother' when the marriage has been dissolved? How can she continue to be a wife? If the divorce court has eliminated her opportunity to continue to be a wife, in the terms of the proposed amendment she has only one other role, and that is that of a mother. 
The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  rightly interjected on the honourable member for Angas and asked: 'At what stage does a woman cease to be a mother?' She ceases to be a mother upon her death or, alternatively, upon the death of all her offspring. But her offspring reach a stage when they no longer need protection from the family unit. The birds reach a stage when they fly from the nest. This Bill in clause 75 (2) (c) states: 
. whether either party has the care or control of the child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years; 
Therefore under this Bill all children less than 1 8 years of age automatically receive the protection which is advocated by the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and supported by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  Sub-clause (g) of the Bill states:   . . where the parties have separated or the marriage has been dissolved, a standard of living that in all the circumstances is reasonable; 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  instanced the case of the elderly woman whose marriage has broken up and who must go out to work. It is my belief that this clause affords that woman the full protection of the court in the determination of maintenance. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  alluded to sub-clause (k) which states:   . . the duration ofthe marriage and the extent to which it has affected the earning capacity ofthe party whose maintenance is under consideration; 
Again there is protection for this person. Subclause (n) states: 
. any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion ofthe court, the justice ofthe case requires to be taken into account. 
What an emotive picture was painted to this Committee by our friend the honourable member for Mackellar. He referred to the elderly man coupling with a young lady and leaving his grey haired wife at home to fend for herself. 
I would agree. It is surprising to hear the former  Speaker  the honourable member for Sydney, supporting me in this argument. Because the honourable member for Mackellar has grey hair he has a thing about grey hair. I believe that all the protection which is necessary is already afforded by clause 75. 1 conclude, as I commenced, by saying that because I and the majority of members of the Committee will oppose this amendment of the Leader of the Opposition it must not be interpreted that we as individuals are opposed to motherhood or to the concern which has been expressed. But we believe on considered opinion that the position is already adequately covered. 
-Has the Special Minister of State been informed that the Australian Government Statistician is conducting a survey in Queensland described as a survey into unreported crime? Is he aware that the Statistician in Queensland refused to give the Press any details of the questions being asked and is reported by one of the nation's most respected journalists,  Mr Alan  Underwood, as saying: 'The survey documents are confidential. I cannot disclose the questions'. Is he aware that there is considerable nation-wide alarm at the rapid expansion of government surveys and that some questions are asked which are regarded as being a complete invasion of privacy? Will he adopt the attitude that if survey questions are such that they cannot be made public for scrutiny the survey will not be carried out? Will he intervene to put an end to the invasion of privacy which seems to have become an order of the day under the guise of all these surveys? 
That was a rather unfortunate contribution by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  because he tried to present, incorrectly, a picture of disharmony and discord existing between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia in our State of Queensland. As a Queenslander I assure the honourable member for Brisbane, who hopes upon hope that some division might arise which will create disruption, that the combined viewpoint of those 2 parties is that the honourable member must go. They are working to that end. There is a wonderfully harmonious relationship between  Sir Gordon  Chalk and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  Let no man come between that association or suggest that it is anything else but what I have described. 
One of the comedies in the debate on the redistribution of Queensland into electoral divisions is that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  stands up time after time and talks about the concept of one vote one value. In my mindcorrect me if I am wrong- one vote one value means just that. Yet here we are debating a measure which allows a 10 per cent divergence from the quota either way. The figure can be 10 per cent below the quota or 10 per cent above the quota. That is a range of up to 20 per cent. To my mind, once we have gone 10 per cent, 5 per cent or even 1 per cent away from the quota the concept of one vote one value no longer exists. So let us put an end to that suggestion. One of the major reasons that the Liberal Party joined the National Country Party in Queensland in opposing the suggested electoral divisions is that we hold the belief in the Liberal Party that, among other things, a great disservice and injustice is being done to the interests of the outback people of Queensland. The people of the outback are the backbone not just of Queensland but of this nation of Australia. Those people, who work with their hands from sun up until well into the night building this great nation, are looked upon by the Minister for Services and Property as being dispensable- not important. 
I suggest that the distribution commissioners should, if they are asked to do a redistribution again, look at the difficulties and problems that exist in outback Queensland. Instead of drawing up an electorate that stretches from the New South Wales border to way beyond Mount Isa in the far north they should look at one that takes into account the main links of communication in Queensland. The people from the Charleville area look upon the ToowoombaDalbyWarwick region as their area of communication. The people of the Longreach area look upon Rockhampton as their area of communication. The people of Mount Isa, Hughenden and Charters Towers look across towards Townsville. Electorates could be determined in accordance with those natural links that have been created with the passage of time. That would be far more satisfactory than having a sprawling electorate in outback Queensland whose member would need to have the access of the nation's Prime Minister to the Qantas fleet if he is to visit the various pans of it within a 3-year cycle. The redistribution is totally unfair in that regard. 
I do not want to sound parochial. I like to approach subjects like this with an open mind and a mind that is devoid of personal interest. But I could not help but notice that the proposal put forward by the Minister seeks the total elimination of my seat. The honourable member for Brisbane, who was the previous  speaker  in the debate, said how sad it would be to see the name of Griffith- the seat was named after  Sir Samuel  Griffith- disappear. I ask: Do honourable memben opposite find it sad that the name Cameron might disappear from this side of the chamber? That is what could happen because of this proposal. The Minister for Services and Property referred to the fact that the federal seat of Griffith has been the only seat in Queensland to decrease in enrolment between 1968 and the end of 1974. The figure by which the enrolment decreased was 70. Let me remind the Minister that when a redistribution was carried out in 1968, because of the fact that my electorate is one with what might be described as a decreasing population area, the figures were boosted to take that into account. I had about the largest enrolment in Queensland in 1 968 because that very factor had been taken into account. I do not see that as a justification for wiping out the electorate of Griffith. 
The Minister for Services and Property mentioned the 4 bridges in my electorate that cross the Brisbane River. Those honourable members who know Brisbane should agree with my contention that one does not see many people walking across the Storey Bridge. It is about 3 times as long as the Sydney Harbour Bridge. The only people who cross the river there are on push bikes or motor bikes or in cars or trucks. One just does not do so otherwise. The second bridge- the Centenary Bridge or Captain Cook Bridge- does not even have a pedestrian area. Any pedestrian who commenced to use that Bridge as a means of communicating with the other side would be either booked or killed. The third bridge is the Victoria Bridge. Certainly many people walk across that bridge, as people have been doing since the nineteenth century, but that is no reason for the elimination of the electorate of Griffith. The fourth bridge is the Grey Street Bridge. It is used during the football season by the people of the electorate of Griffith who go to Lang Park to watch Queensland defeat New South Wales at rugby league. 
On a more serious note, many people in Brisbane and throughout Queensland agree that if Clem Jones had won the seat of Griffith at the last Federal election the electorate of Griffith would remain. They ask: Is this a redistribution or retribution? Far be it for me to reflect upon the tremendous integrity that we were told by the honourable member for Brisbane is possessed by the distribution commissioners, but I tend to think sometimes that it is retribution and that if Clem Jones had been successful there still would be an electorate of Griffith but because Cameron beat Clem Jones it is being said: 'We did not get him with the sword- with Clem- so we will use the pen and wipe out his seat altogether'. I can assure honourable members opposite, as the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  pointed out, that we on this side of the House have the numbers in the Senate and that is iust not on 
How do the people of the electorate of Griffith feel about this matter? One Saturday morning my supporters and I went out into the shopping centre with some petition forms and more than 1 500 people clamoured to put their names to petitions in protest at the proposal to eliminate the electorate. Those protests are recorded in a document that was presented to the Parliament some weeks ago. 
That is a rather remarkable comment from the honourable member for Bowman. It reminds me that the Australian Labor Party is endeavouring to plunder my electorate to try to save the skin of the honourable member for Bowman. It proposes taking two-fifths of my electorate to put into the honourable member's electorate and another two fifths to put into the electorate of the honourable member for Brisbane in order to bolster their chances of holding their seats at the next election. This will not do the Australian Labor Party any good because the people of Griffith know what it is like to have representation by the Liberal Party of Australia in the Federal Parliament. 
I accept that compliment with great modesty. The people of Griffith will not have a bar of the Australian Labor Party. The people of Queensland have in mind a change in the Federal Government, but there is only one way by which that can be brought about and that is if the Liberal and National Country Parties are given the chance of winning the seats on the existing boundaries. That is what is in the minds of Queenslanders. 
The Minister for Services and Property referred to the electorates of Glasgow and Fadden as being electorates which would be Liberal seats. 
A couple of days after the redistribution proposals came out with the suggestion to eliminate the electorate of Griffith I recall the State  President  of my own Party saying: 'What are you going to do? Are you going to run for Glasgow or Fadden?' I said: 'I am not going to run for either,  Mr President,  because although the figures might appear all right on the surface when you look at them closely you will see that away from the 1974 results, despite the current ill mood towards the Labor Party, those seats would in all probability be Labor seats'. Honourable members opposite know only too well that they could win seats in Queensland in the future as a result of this redistribution and that it will not be to their detriment. They could do quite well. That is why they want to embrace these proposals. 
I am not going to suggest that there has been any gerrymander because that would be to cast a reflection upon the commissioners, but I would like an explanation about the electorate of Dawson. On the redistribution as presented originally- before the amendments- the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Terrritory  (Dr Patterson)  would have lost his seat by approximately 1000 votes. Amendments and changes were made when that was pointed out. New lines were drawn. With a bit of luck he could now get back. Why was that done? It was done in an effort to bolster the Minister's chances of retaining the seat for the Labor Party. Far from regarding this redistribution as being very fair honourable members on this side of the House have found reluctantly that we will have to reject it because it is not fair. From my own point of view I hope that everyone understands that when the electorate of Griffith was marked for death or disappearance I could hardly have been happy, having lived in the district for a lifetime and fought off the onslaught of 4 severe Labor campaigns which culminated in the arrival of Labor's biggest gun in the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Clem Jones, who is now, fortunately, not here but back in his lord mayoral robes in the City Hall in Brisbane. 
-We have listened with interest to the earlier contributions in this debate. I am speaking tonight on this subject possibly as the only member of the Parliament, at least on this side of the chamber, who has had experience on the waterfront. Almost a decade ago I was an industrial officer with the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. Much has changed in that decade, but I believe that the framework which was surrounded by the skin of trouble in those earlier years is still the cause of much of the trouble today. When one looks back on the history of the Australian waterfront one recalls that it was approximately in 1928 when the old bulldog systemI think that was the name of it- of selecting gangs of workers was abandoned. For a long time the bad old days remained in the memories of the workers on the Australian waterfront. They were tough days when the boss or the stevedore had the right to select for himself those workers whom he felt had in the past given him the best return, and those people who had not worked as hard as others were left on the sideline. 
The next major change occurred in the mid-1960s when the then Minister for Labour and National Service- I think it was  Mr Holt  or  Mr McMahon-  appointed the Woodward Commission to investigate the Australian waterfront.  Mr Woodward  at that time suggested that we needed the introduction of permanency of employment to give the Australian waterside worker a feeling of security so that in return he would put his heart into the job. Regrettably, permanency has not worked out as it was planned, and today we still see disruptions, a falling away of loading rates and many other troubles which for so long have been associated with the waterfront. 
I do not believe that it is all the fault of the waterside worker. It takes two to tango. My colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  touched on this point earlier, when he referred to the fact that the Australian stevedore, who in many cases represents an overseas ship owner, has one task. It is of paramount importance that he get the ship turned around and out to sea headed to the next port, because regrettably having a ship tied up for an extra 24 hours costs thousands of dollars. It is much easier to hand the waterside workers a percentage of that cost and save the rest than to enter into some dispute or to take a stand on some issue. I think the honourable member for Wakefield said that frequently the stevedores have been over the barrel. I say that they have been over the mast. They have been well and truly hung from the mast and have had to capitulate on many occasions when in other industries the employer would have been able to say: 'All right, we will close down the plant'. Perhaps the only comparable industry in this country would be the airline industry. If the employees of Trans-Australia Airlines or Ansett Airlines of Australia go out on strike for 48 hours, it costs those 2 operators up to $lm a day to have their business tied up. The cost of a strike is one of the reasons why ship owners or stevedores have been so prepared to give in on many issues on which employers in another industry would take a firm stand. 

 Mr Speaker, I ask you: Who really can blame the waterside worker if his union official, who is subjected to the elective system, does his best by the men he represents and strives his utmost to win concessions and conditions? This is the name of the game, and this is exactly how it works. I do not believe that the suggestion made by the honourable member for Wakefield has the acceptance that he would like to believe it has. I refer, of course, to the nationalisation of the entire waterfront industry. I believe that the Australian waterside worker is no longer a member of the unprivileged class. He is no longer a member of the suppressed class. He has fought his way out of that position. In return for what my fellow Australians who are waterside workers have gained, I ask them to recognise that every time they pull on a bluey unnecessarily and every time they hold up a ship unnecessarily it is their fellow Australians who carry the financial burden. 
We recall that not too long ago- about a decade ago- section 23A, if my memory serves me correctly, of the Stevedoring Industry Act provided that a waterside worker or a gang of waterside workers could stop work if he or they believed that a safety issue existed. Under that section there was trouble day after day on the Australian waterfront. It was removed by  Mr Justice  Woodward and there was a change. The number of stoppages on safety issues decreased as dramatically as the value of our currency has decreased since the advent of an Australian Labor Party Government. It was an indication that the waterside workers were not beyond pulling one on if they could. But in this day and age when they have won their conditions they have a responsibility and a duty, in my opinion, to recognise that the overseas shipowners still ply the Australian coastline. For all the battles in the past they have not disappeared. The Australian people do not own all the ships and the war which has been waged cannot be won. They should remember that the price of that war- a war which is still being waged- is borne by the Australian exporters and a very simple fact emerges. If our costs to manufacture and send our produce overseas continue to escalate we are pricing ourselves off the world markets and as a result fellow Australians will continue to join the ranks of the unemployed. I conclude on this point: The waterside workers have won their position and should guard it jealously but they should not sacrifice the standards and the rights of others to opportunities simply for unjustified pursuits. 
-I have not had the chance to reply to the mauling that was given to me by my namesake, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  when he referred to the fact that the bull system was abolished in 1944 and not 1928. I suppose that at my age 1944 and 1928 are both a long way back. To the Minister they are years of vivid memories, well into the past. He has a speciality in this House of living in the past. So often the Press Gallery typifies him as the shearer in a suit- a wool suit of coursewith attitudes which reflect the shearing shed. 
The Opposition has moved this most thoughtful amendment because Opposition members are concerned that the Government, despite all its explanations and cries that it represents open government, is introducing these measures so that we do not need to look at the legislation again for some time. The Opposition believes that the waterfront is such a volatile industry that it should be examined frequently. We would hope that the cessation of the operation of the Act would lead to this procedure. 
The Minister accused me of not having suggested in the course of my second reading debate speech any proposals which would help rectify the ills which presently beset the industry. It is far better to be brief and to say what has to be said than to indulge in exercises- such as the Minister has done for many years- and have the shallowness of one's logic shown up when the opportunity comes to implement the fine words of the past. This is seen in the failure of the Minister to cope adequately with the elimination of those problems which presently beset the Aus.tralian waterfront. I notice the Government Whip sitting there ready to gag me once again. It is not my intention to prolong my contribution at this stage of the debate. The Opposition is concerned. As I said earlier, I disagree with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who is advocating the nationalisation of the waterfront industry.  His  views were acclaimed by the Minister. I reject them. I do not believe that that is the answer to the problems. If all sides stiffened their backbones and resolved to work to end the difficulties which presently exist, I am sure it would be a happier waterfront. More importantly, the Australian exporter, manufacturer and worker would be the beneficiaries. 
In the last 5 years probably no person in Australia has been more outspoken against the survey procedure that has been used previously than has yours truly. I have been a most vociferous campaigner for reform, and I welcome the Government's acceptance of change. The amendment moved by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, provides that if a survey is to be compulsory the proposal has to be laid on the table of the Parliament if the Parliament is sitting; but if the survey is not to be compulsory the Parliament will not see it. That is what one would call coming half way. I assure the Special Minister of State that, whilst the Opposition accepts the amendment, I have no intention of accepting it completely in the future. I hope that when my Party returns to power it will in fact continue to bring about open government in the area of surveys. 
I recall that in the case of non-official surveys, in which the disclosure of information is not compulsory, the explanation was given that a person would be advised that he or she did not have to take part in the survey. By telling the person that, the obligation is discharged. The Minister is a very busy man. I have a lot of respect for him. I hope that he will take what I have to say in the next couple of minutes as being the truth, because it is the truth. We have a situation in which the people conducting surveys are not telling the people being interviewed that they do not have to participate. One very high official in the Minister's Department explained the reason for this to me by saying: 'If you go to people and say that they do not really have to take part in a survey they will tell you that they do not want to take part'. He said that if people are given the impression that they must answer the questions they respond. We know that people who refuse to take part in certain surveys leave themselves open to a financial penalty. Regrettably, many people are not as familiar as people in the Public Service in Canberra or in government are with what is going on in the national capital and are frightened of the penalties that they will face if they do not answer the questions that are being asked. They simply say: 'All right, I will do it'. I believe that the Minister has to impress firmly upon the minds of his departmental officers that they have a firm obligation to explain to people right at the outset that they do not have to take part in non-official surveys. 
At exactly 7.50 tonight I had a telephone call from  Mrs Heather  Simpkins of Morningside in Brisbane. She was very upset because officers had called on her in the last couple of days and demanded information for a survey. She told me that her husband was retrenched last October after 14 years with Provincial Traders Ltd in Brisbane. Prior to that he had served with the Australian Army for 12 years and had served in Korea. She has a daughter who is a third year apprentice, who has been unemployed for some months and who, unlike her father, has been receiving unemployment benefits.  Her  father is too proud to accept them. The woman conducting the survey justified her presence by saying that  Mrs Simpkins  had already received a letter saying that she had been selected. When  Mrs 
Simpkins explained to the woman that she was not interested the woman responded by saying that she had been chosen. She was not told that it was obligatory to answer the questions.  Mrs Simpkins  said to the lady conducting the survey: 'This survey stinks. Why do you want to know these things?' The lady interviewer said: 'It is going to be brought up in the Parliament'.  Mrs Simpkins  responded to that by saying: 'Tell  Mr Whitlam  to get lost'. This type of reaction is understandable.  Mrs Simpkins  was prompted to say that after she had been asked what her husband had earned, what her daughter was spending and so on. No doubt the departmental officials will be able to trace the survey to which I am referring.  Mrs Simpkins  could not give me the details over the telephone because she did not have the original letter with her. But I assure the Minister that there are thousands upon thousands of Australians who are being plagued- I use that word advisedly- without justification, for private information. 
I see this as a total invasion of privacy, unless people are told in clear terms at the outset that they do not have to take part in the survey. As far as I am concerned, if the Department has a problem in collecting information when it tells people that the survey that is being conducted is not compulsory, that is its problem. There has to be complete and utter honesty. But at the moment the Department is hiding behind the cloak of ignorance which regrettably exists in Australia. 

 -Mr Chairman, - 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Frankly, I fail to completely comprehend what the previous  speaker  was talking about because there is hardly any shipbuilding industry left in Australia. The great pOliCY which he supports has come after the horse has bolted. Since the Australian Labor Party has become the Government Evans Deakin Industries, Walkers Ltd and Adelaide Ship Construction Company have all closed down. I concede that when my Party was in government the shipbuilding industry was faced with difficulties. It was never easy. But the uncertainty of those days has since the election of a Labor Government been replaced with a feeling of hopelessness. That is why the 3 shipbuilding companies closed down and said: 'We give in. It is impossible to carry on'. I had not intended entering this debate this evening but the remarks of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  whose electorate is in Brisbane, were such that I wondered to which country he was referring. I thought there must have been an Evans Deakin in some other part of the world because so much fiction was contained in his comments tonight. The honourable member smiles. I do not say he is agreeing with what I have just said but it is a friendly smile. 
The truth is that the management of Evans Deakin was not inefficient as the honourable member suggested. I believe he has been unfair not only to the management but also to the men who worked in those shipyards. I recall that in 1972 when the Labor Party had a candidate called  Mr Foat  opposing me for my marginal seat - 
-He did well. He went close, but not close enough. The honourable member for Bowman should know what closeness is, because he went close last time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stood in the Evans Deakin shipyard- I have repeated this in the House on 2 previous occasions- and said to the men: 'If you want to work, vote for us. The Labor Party will promise you jobs and more orders'. I do not know what the orders were for. Perhaps they were for unemployment benefits because that is all the men ever got. I recall in May of last year returning to Brisbane with  Sir Charles  Court, the Premier of Western Australia. Those men who were left at Evans Deakin 's shipyards said: 'We are no longer interested in politics. All we want is work'. They saw the writing on the wall. They saw that under a Labor Government the industry was closing down fast. 
It is a pity that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is not with us this evening. He is the arch enemy of progress for the shipbuilding industry. He has been placing orders overseas, and spending money with abandon, with the approval of the several Treasurers that we have had since Labor came to power. The Minister has gone overseas and allowed the Australian National Line to place orders outside this country. The honourable member for Bowman said that quotations or tenders by Evans Deakin were never satisfactory. I have raised the case in this House before of a tender by Evans Deakin that was lower than that of the State Dockyards in the electorate of the Minister for Transport, but the State Dockyards was awarded the job. That case has never been satisfactorily explained. But I know that both management and workers- or ex-workers- of Evans Deakin shared concern about what occurred in those days. 
To honour the promise that I made to the Government Whip, I will conclude now. I finish with this remark: I find it ridiculous that the world's largest island, remote from most other parts of the world, every month is losing its capacity to build ships. I ask honourable members to contemplate the situation. Australian no longer has a capacity in more than 2 shipbuilding yards to produce vessels in the event of war or any other catastrophe in which we might have to be self-reliant. There are justifiable arguments against simply propping up industries. But there are vital industries in certain countries and the shipbuilding industry is a vital industry for Australia. 
I compliment the Government for having taken the bold step of getting on with the job of building a new and permanent parliament house. To the Australian public, this may appear to be a waste of money; but, as one who has been in this place for nigh on 9 years, I can assure the public that this Parliament House would be the most inefficient building in Australia. Not only is this building one which, with the passing of time, has become inefficient; but also it is a building which has seen better days. If members of the Australian public saw the number of buckets which are placed throughout this building during heavy rain to collect the water that leaks in, they would have greater understanding of what I am saying. They are not aware that on frequent occasions after heavy rain the entire kitchen area at the rear of the building has to be mopped up because of the water that has poured in- a lot of water. 
I do not believe that there would be many unions in Australia that would tolerate workers carrying out their duties in offices such as the offices which members of this Parliament occupy. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and I share an office without any windows. It is known affectionately as the 'Black Hole'. I do not think that similar conditions would be found anywhere else in this country. 
-The honourable member for Parramatta reminds me that any employer who expected people to work in an office without windows would be prosecuted; that is quite correct. But such things go on here in Canberra. I refer also to the rooms set aside for the Press- those little holes up on the top floor of the building. The television studio there is so small that one can hardly move in it. I mention also the inadequacy of the committee rooms which, with the growth of the work of committees, are far distant from this chamber. I remind the House of how much time is spent in simply walking from place to place inside this building. 
If members of the Australian public were to see these things, they would realise the need for a new and permanent parliament house. Although it may cost a number of millions of dollars, when that new building is constructed we will be well on the way to saving money. It will be a number of years before that building is finished. For 7 years now, we have debated whether that building should be by the lake, on Camp Hill or on Capital Hill. If it has taken 7 years to reach a decision on that matter, I am frightened to think of the time that might pass before the new parliament house is completed. At long last we are to get on with the job. I suggest this compromise to those people who believe that the present Parliament House should not be pulled down: If the main front area of this building which contains the chambers were to be saved, the cost of restoring and preserving that part of this building would not be too great. But, if we were to embark upon the exercise of preserving the entire building for the future, an unjustified expenditure of money would be involved. I support the proposals put before the House. They are most welcome. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affimative. 

 - Mr Chairman, I want to - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to his message contained in the booklet placed in every letter box in Australia on the subject of Medibank which makes reference to patients being imprisoned for failure to pay medical bills, can he say how many persons have been imprisoned for failure to pay medical bills on actions commenced by (a) doctors and ( b) hospital boards in the last 20 years. 

 -Mr Chairman of Committees, may I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the former Postmaster-General. Is the Minister aware that the Australian public has been stunned by the severity of the recently announced postal charge increases? Will the Minister confirm that on 1 September the Australian postal rates Will become by far the most expensive in the world and that the almost 300 per cent increase in less than 3 years in the cost of posting a letter is further proof of this Government's ability to screw up everything it touches? 
Following the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  is not a difficult task. If ever any person has stood in this chamber and echoed prejudices and diatribes which were indicative of ancient thinking that is unsuitable for the mid-1970s, it is the honourable member. If ever there was an explanation of why Australia is in the trouble it is in, it is personified by the honourable member for Melbourne with his prejudices, hate, distrust and dislike which regrettably blur his vision and prevent him from seeing the real facts. One of the regrettable features of his speech was that he saw fit to avoid completely any mention of the unemployed, the suffering that the Australian people have encountered as a result of the inflation rate which has wracked Australia in the last 3 years, and a number of other factors with which we are all familiar.*He dwelt on the question of legal aid and regrettably presented the Opposition as being parties which do not recognise the need of the less privileged in our society. The truth is that the Opposition believes that legal aid should be directed back to the States, where it was previously; that it is the responsibility of the States; and that with a little more assistance the system that existed earlier could be improved. 
I will concede, because I do not have the hangups of the previous  speaker,  that the Labor Government has made some improvements in some areas. But it has been hell bent on centralism and duplicating almost every social welfare program which exists in this nation. If there was one in the States, the Government refused to increase its allocation of finance to allow the States to improve their own services; it simply set up its own system. With inflation, in which the Government has had a vested interest and which has given it more cash, it has been able to overshadow the systems which were existing previously. But we as a nation have paid a heavy penalty for some of the so-called improvements that the Government has made. We Liberals and our National Country Party colleagues are not against help for the needy, but we believe that the troubles of recent years have arisen as a result of the centralist policies of the present Federal Government. 
The last Budget introduced by the Liberals, in 1972, provided for an expenditure of $9 billion. If anyone can produce better examples of the manner in which the Government has gone helter- skelter in spending than I am about to produce, then I should like to see them. The Budget for the year after Labor came to power increased expenditure from $9 billion to $12 billion. In 1974, last year, the projected Budget expenditure rose from $12 billion to $16 billion. This year the Budget expenditure increases to $100m short of $22 billion. We took 71 years to place ourselves in a position in which we had a national Budget of $9 billion. In 3 short years- 1000 days last week- the present Labor Government has managed to increase that figure 2V4 times. Yet members of the Government Party have the audacity to stand in this chamber claiming to be the champions of all people. 
Tonight, from the honourable member for Melbourne, we saw the nervousness which is sweeping over members of the Government Party and their attitude to separating so-called classes. The honourable member attacked the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because he has a farm. Give me any day the man who has proven his ability to run a farm rather than a Prime Minister who has spent all his years here in Canberra, the centre of the public servants, with his head in the clouds, unrealistic, indulging in a parliamentary career, and without any appreciation of the problems which confront the ordinary people of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition has been successful outside and I am certain that he will do a much better job than has been done in this Parliament in the last 1000 days. ' When we look at the rest of the world we see a downturn of inflation in Japan, the United States of America, Canada, France and Italy. There are only 2 countries in the world in which inflation is still holding, namely, the United Kingdom and Australia. We have more than a language in common. We have socialist governments- the British Labour Party Government and the Australian Labor Party Government. If ever there was an indication that socialism is not a goer it is the manner in which this country has been administered in the last 2 years and particularly in the last few months. It is difficult to recall who the Treasurers have been since Labor came to office. I believe that one of the reasons why the Government has changed them frequently is so that when the projected Budget of the particular year goes wrong we cannot blame a personality; we can only talk about 'them' because we never get the opportunity to look at the same Treasurer twice. 
If the Australian people are prepared to sit down and to study fully the ramifications of the recent Budget they will recognise that the benefits which are claimed by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to be existent and underlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  are really nonexistent. It is all very well for people to look at the Budget and to be like one of the former Treasurers of recent years, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean),  and say: 'I do not drive a motor car; I do not smoke; I do not drink; and I do not eat coal'. If one does not do those things one can say: 'I am all right, Jack'. But one of the problems is that the effects of the increases in those areas are inflationary and indirectly every citizen of Australia will pay the price of this recent Budget. 
The Government was careful to release earlier the statement that there was to be a huge hike in postal charges. These increases in themselves are inflationary. The Government claims that it is giving money back to the Australian taxpayer. But, as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out the other evening and as many Australians have recognised already, on present figures this Government will give back the sum of $205m in income tax and yet will collect, on present day figures, an extra $ 1,300m in other areas. Therefore the Government is not giving with one hand and taking with the other; it is giving a little with one finger of one hand and it is really taking with every finger of the other hand. The Government is ripping out of the pocket of the Australian taxpayer five or six times as much as it is giving back. Yet members of the Government Party laud themselves in this place, on television and in the electorate as being benevolent. They are trying to increase - 
-The honourable member should take his hand out of his mouth. The Government is trying to increase its actual income from the Australian people. The speech made by the honourable member for Melbourne, in my view, underlined one of the great tragedies of the Australian Labor Party in government. I recognise that in 1972, at the end of 23 years, many people felt that the Liberals had had their run and that it was time for a change. Indeed, that change came about. I have welcomed a number of things that the Government has done. 
I can tell you one of the things the Government did that I did not like and that was to select you as a candidate for this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I invite the honourable member for Griffith to address the Chair. 
-The honourable member was being personal,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The point that the Government fails to appreciate in its rush for socialism is that Australia, with a population of 13 million and a land mass of 3 million square miles, is a developing country where people to prosper and build need an incentive. The Government has completely turned off the private sector which, with justification, no longer has confidence in the Government. The public sector has grown to such an extent that the Leader of the Opposition has been forced to promise that if we are returned to office we will introduce a zero growth rate in the Public Service. 
The only way the Government has financed its programs in recent times has been through its vested interest in inflation and the manner in which it has taken from the pockets of almost every Australian worker. Since it came to office pay-as-you-earn taxation has increased from slightly over $3 billion to almost $9 billion in this Budget year. The Australian taxpayer- and here I regard the taxpayer as being the Australian worker- is paying 3 times as much tax today as he did in 1972-73. Notwithstanding this extra tax collection we have seen the creation of a large unemployment pool. Some 250 000 Australians are out of work. Between another 50 000 and 60 000 Australians are dependent on either National Employment and Training schemes or Regional Employment Development schemes to keep working, but the Government has announced that RED is to be cut out in a few months time. We will then see an increase in the number of unemployed in Australia. 
The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  President  of the Australian Labor Party organisation- the same man,  Mr Hawke-  does not enjoy being at variance with the Australian Labor Party when it is in power, but he sees the weaknesses and the unrealities which exist in the implementation of policies of the present Government. This afternoon we heard the maiden speech of the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman).  He referred to the swing of 17.5 per cent in that electorate which brought him to this place. 
-You do not seem to have had a famous career. It seems to be on the downturn as is the case with so many of the others in your Party. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, one of the things I admired about you was when the Prime Minister stabbed the previous  Speaker  in the House you refrained from voting, so as to express your disapproval. That is addressing it to you if ever I heard it. The Liberal-Country Party Opposition, as a result of 3 years in Opposition, has learned some of the lessons that the Australian people were hoping it would learn in 1972 when they tipped us out of power. Many did not believe we deserved to win in that year but I say without any qualification that the people of Australia did not deserve what has happened to them since then. The present Government has been a disastrous flirtation. Let us hope that when it goes out of power it will recognise that one of the reasons for it going out of power is that most of the Australian population- it does not matter whether I refer to working men or farmers- reject socialism. The Australian people simply want sane government. They want things done to improve the lot of the average Australian without completely sinking the ship. I make no secret of the fact that I would not have minded an election yesterday. As far as I am concerned this nation has to be put on the rails. 
I conclude by referring to the promise of the Leader of the Opposition to introduce a zero growth rate in the Australian Public Service. We all recognise that a great number of Australians in the Public Service are dedicated, hard working people. But I believe that the Labor Government has completely prostituted our concept of a Public Service. Prior to its coming to power we had a Public Service which comprised people who had the capacity to serve any government loyally. There was an expectation that regardless of the political colour of the government of the day effort, loyalty and efficiency would be rewarded with promotion but in recent times we have seen introduced a system under which friends of the Labor Party are installed in high positions. 
I ask: Is it fair that after the next election we as the incoming government should have to stand by the principles of yesteryear under which the Public Service remained intact notwithstanding a change of government?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  your Government has flouted the system so much and so implanted in the Public Service stooges of its persuasion that the incoming government will have to do something which normally would not be contemplated in Australia, and that is to suspend the Public Service Act for a week and to weed them all out- to get rid of them, the Grassbys and the Speigelmans. Why should Australia, when this horrible chapter of the ALP Government comes to a close, be forced to keep those people in high positions and pay their salaries until they reach 65 years of age or get out on their own decision? Most of them are the type of people nobody outside would employ. The sooner they are dismissed from the Public Service the better. The system was fair in the past but the manner by which the present Government has manipulated and forced appointments creates, in my view, a situation whereby we must get rid of them. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, during the reply by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the question asked by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  as to the point that I made in the course of my speech in the Budget debate that we should suspend the Public Service Act and clear out some of the recent Labor appointments. I point out that this speech was made prior to the publicity given to the appointment of  Mrs Gail  Wilenski. I assure the House that I have no opposition to the appointment of females to positions throughout Australia as long as it is not a case of simply providing jobs for 'persons'. We have seen for too long now the Government flout the system. That was what motivated my comment in my earlier speech. 
-I wish I could share the confidence in the future that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  holds. While the Australian Labor Party continues in Government I do not think any Australian, or thinking Australian, could share his views. During this Grievance Day debate I want to refer to a reply by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to a question asked this morning by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  The Prime Minister alluded to remarks I made in this chamber last Tuesday evening when I said that I believed the Public Service Act should be suspended after the Opposition is returned to power so that it could cleanse and remove from the Public Service some of the appointments that had been made since the Labor Government came to office. Unfortunately the Prime Minister seized on the appointment of  Mrs Gail  Wilenski, referred to nothing else and made his reply appear as though I had been motivated by her appointment. That was not the case, as I explained later after I had claimed to have been misrepresented. I referred to the reason that motivated me to make the claim. 
Often in this House we have heard the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  claim that during the previous Administration we made many jobs for the boys. In fact, the Prime Minister, on 9 April 1974, provided a list in response to a question from the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  of all those persons that the Liberal-Country Party governments from 1949 to 1972 had appointed. I seek leave to have that list incorporated in  Hansard. 
Last evening at about 8.45 p.m. as  Deputy  Opposition Whip I called for a quorum in this chamber. Shortly after there was a comment of gentle criticism as to what I had done. The matter was followed up shortly afterwards by another honourable member who virtually apologised for the fact that a quorum had been called. I should like to say briefly that, in accord with the views expressed later in the evening by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the calling for a quorum is one of the few weapons which is in the hands of the Opposition. Any of us in this chamber could stand now and call for a quorum, because we are far below a quorum. We all know that the procedures of this place are such that honourable members have to work in their offices during the day when the Parliament is in session. Last night there were committee meetings while the Parliament was sitting and the Opposition used this method to protest at those committee meetings being held during the parliamentary sitting and also to flex its muscles a bit. 
I make no apology for having called for a quorum. It had the backing of the Whip and no doubt the backing of the Party 's Leader. I should remind those honourable members on this side of the House who are critical of such measures that when we were in government for 23 years, we were run off our feet by the then opposition which employed this method. Until such time as the quorum method is changed and if we are still in opposition, I shall continue to call for quorums. As I said earlier, this is the only weapon or form of harrassment which lies in the hands of the Opposition. It is a means of protesting against unjust treatment which Oppositions sometimes justifiably feel is being meted out to them. 
May I ask a question, through you,  Mr Speaker,  of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)?  How tall will this building be? How many storeys will it have? 
This is possibly the last year that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  will sit in the position in which he is sitting today to reply to the debate on the estimates for the Department of Transport. He has been the Minister for 3 years now. One would be failing if one did not look back at just what he has achieved. As the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  described him, he is the Minister for Transport- a portfolio which includes shipping. I do not intend to dwell for long on the shipping aspect because I have spoken frequently on this subject. I recollect once again that when the Minister came into office the shipyards of the Adelaide Construction Co., Walkers Ltd in Queensland and Evans Deakin Industries Ltd were viable and producing. Today they have stopped. No longer are ships being turned out of those three yards. Half of the shipbuilding yards in Australia have been closed. It is a proud record for the Minister. In the years to come he will be able to tell his grandchildren how he set about to destroy that which previously existed. 
Another area for which the Minister has considerable responsibility is the area of civil aviation. It is part of his job to ensure that the various airports are adequate to cope with civil aviation. I refer to the Brisbane airport which, because of its siting, in recent times, has become hopelessly inadequate to handle modern day aeroplanes. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and myself have for years and years with the advent of larger and noisier aeroplanes - 

 - Mr Chairman, as you have been here for some years now you will know that it is not often that I rise to speak on this subject. The recent Budget carried a provision whereby the price of oil was to be increased by approximately $2 a barrel. This has meant to the Australian motorist or oU consumer an increase of approximately 7c a gallon in the price of petrol. One of the great problems as I see it is that the Government is being shortsighted in its increase in that it is motivated simply by the desire to raise revenue. As I said, I am not one who speaks frequently on this subject. A recent visit overseas during the latter part of July and early August brought home to me the message that Australians at present are very lucky. In Europe and the United Kingdom people pay anything between $A1.30 to $A1.50 for one gallon of petrol and yet here in Australia despite the fact that the Governmentwhether the previous Government or this Government- has desired to take a bigger slice, a bigger percentage, the price per gallon is almost half that paid in European countries. 
During my trip I visited Stavanger on the western coast of Norway. Stavanger, like Aberdeen in Scotland, is a centre where large off-shore oU drills and rigs are constructed and towed out into the North Sea. During my visit I went to both places. I stayed 5 days in Stavanger and I talked with many people in the industry. In fact I was taken out onto one of the rigs which was in the course of being constructed. I learned that Australia is being held in ridicule in the minds of the people deeply involved in the exploration of oU throughout the world. I can understand the aspirations and hopes of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in his desire to buy back the farm and to get complete control by Australians of fuels and minerals existing either on-shore or off-shore. I believe that the Minister has been totally unrealistic in his approach. The somewhat abusive performances in which he has indulged in this Parliament in more recent times are an indication that he is realising that he has been boxed into a corner. We simply cannot do this alone. If we believe that we can we will find that in Australia the price of fuel will increase to such an extent that it will exceed even the price that people in some parts of Europe have to pay. 
The Government's attitude in taking away tax concessions from people who ploughed in money and risked it in oU and mineral exploration was one of the earliest signs that the Australian Government, which was elected in 1972, did not have its feet on the ground. In 1969, only 6 years ago, some 323 wildcat and development wells were drilled in Australia. The Government has turned off the tap of incentive and encouragement so that in this calendar year less than 50 wells will be drilled. In the year just past we paid $720m to exporters of petroleum fuels. If we do not get off our seats and get going in a few short years the figure will be up to more than $2,000m. In drilling for oil in Australia we have had a success rate of approximately one in 35 drillings. In gas we have had a success rate of one in approximately  2Vi  drillings. The world rate for gas is one in 24 drillings. Therefore we do better than the world average in the exploration for gas. In oU the world rate is one in 7.6 drillings. So in oU discovery we are 5 times unluckier than the world average. Despite these handicaps the Minister for Minerals and Energy feels that we can pursue a pOliCY of total independence and to hell with the rest of the world. 
In some 70 years we have managed to drill just over 1,100 holes in the ground in the search for gas and oU. As I said at the outset, I do not claim to be a specialist in this field. The cost involved in every metre drilled is so high that we are very dependent on expertise and capital from overseas. I would like to leave an example with Government members. I refer to something which I saw with my own eyes. Norway, a socialist country whose government likes to be in on the act, insists on having a 50 per cent share of control of what is being done off that country's shore and, with aU the hope in the world, still has great difficulty scraping up its 50 per cent to contribute towards either the exploration for or the extraction of the oil which has been discovered. There is a message there. As proud as we might be and as independent as we might feel that we wish to be, there is simply no going it alone. If a well is discovered on-shore tomorrow it takes at least 4 years to reach production. If it is discovered offshore it takes 5 years to reach production. 
One of the regrettable features is that if there had to be an increase in the price for each barrel of petrol in this country, surely the money obtained would have been better directed to the explorers and producers to give them an incentive to get on with the search for fuel in Australia on-shore and off-shore. We have aU been told, even by the previous  speaker  from the Government side, the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins),  that our resources Will run out in about 10 years time if we do not start to find something for ourselves. People point to the use of coal in the future. Surely the use of fossils is simply a temporary measure and the real job for Australia is to get on with exploration. To ensure that this is done people need incentive, and it is certainly not being given today. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Proposed expenditure agreed to. Progress reported. 
-The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  suggested that I would not understand the problem that farmers would face if the polling booths were to close at 6 p.m. My view is that the Australian farming community should recognise that the right to vote is a very important one and that they should express a preparedness to stop work for a few minutes during the day to go to their local polling booth or, alternatively, to take out a postal vote. 
It is not fair to expect the people who work for the Australian Electoral Office to keep going all night. Also it is not fair to those people from all political parties, who voluntarily give of their time, to expect them to man polling booths from 8 o'clock in the morning until 8 o'clock at night. In other words, I personally am opposed to my own Party's viewpoint on this subject- I am not afraid to have my opinion registered. I would hope that one day common sense will prevail on this side of the House, and on the other side of the House when we are back in office. Finally, I am convinced that the majority of members of my Party and the coalition National Country Party of Australia share my views, but as we have never taken a vote on the subject we do not really know how we stand. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that many public servants are travelling first class on aeroplanes. 
Is it also a fact that the terms of awards in some cases make it impossible for him to enforce the rule to fly economy class. 
How many public servants can still fly first class if they so choose. 
Frankly, the honourable member for 
Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  surprised me in that he indicated so much opposition to what is being proposed by the Opposition because it does have merit. Either he does not understand what the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  is proposing on behalf of the Opposition or alternatively he has a closed mind. It is regrettable to see that aspect in a person who came here with so much promise. I suggest that the proposed register system should be expanded further. As the previous  speaker  said, the postal voting system is subjected to tremendous competition by the candidates for the various marginal electorates. Whilst the present system continues the candidates will have no alternative but to do their utmost to ensure that they maximise their opportunities for gaining votes. The suggestion of the Opposition that a register should be kept would work well and if expanded to include the aged and infirm who cannot go to a polling booth it would remove much of the hassle which presently exists. 
I do not believe that anybody in this House really indulges in an unlawful practice. I am the first to admit that the nature of my electorate forces me to keep in my office a register of those who voted by postal vote in the previous Federal election. The facts are that the Australian Labor Party in Griffith keeps a similar roll and if I were not to keep one I would be certainly swallowed up because of inactivity. I do not do anything illegal but I am forced to assume a role which I believe should be that of the Commonwealth Government. It is my view that permanent invalids and very aged persons should be given the option of having their names placed on a roll so that when a Federal election, whether it be a Senate or a House of Representatives election, is held, it is the duty of the various returning officers to forward to those persons a form that is almost completed, reminding the persons of their obligations and of their right to have a postal vote. This system in itself would avoid the various political parties' supporters banging on doors and hassling the aged and the sick. It is we who decree that it is compulsory to vote in Australia. Some other countries do not have compulsory voting. I am one who believes in compulsory voting but whilst I believe in that I believe also that the Government, whether it be Liberal or Labor, has an obligation to our sick and aged people to make it as easy as possible for them to cast a vote. 
I turn to another subject and another amendment suggested by the Opposition. The reaction of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  who is at the table and who is representing the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  in his absence, amazed me. I was amazed that a man of his background and standing questioned the wisdom of the Opposition's amendment that instead of the forms being changed to read simply 'given names' we should insert 'Christian names' also. It is a subject which I raised in this House some months ago. I noticed some weeks ago that one of our weekend newspapers described such matters as trivia. But I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if this is trivial, why is the Government so hell bent on removing the words 'Christian names' from all Government forms and replacing them with 'given names'? I understand and appreciate that in Australia not everybody wishes to consider himself or herself as a Christian and that to have to write a first name over the caption 'Christian name' could be offensive. Equally true is the argument that many people regard their first names as their Christian names. To force them to write what they regard as a Christian name over the caption 'Given Names' is to them equally intolerable or repugnant. 
I believe that the Opposition is taking into account that we have 2 groups of people in our society in suggesting that the forms should include the words 'Given or Christian Names'. It is up to the individual to decide whether he regards himself as a Christian or otherwise. It is not up to the Government to insist that a person take a certain line in filling out these simple forms. This is certainly trivia, but in the past so much has been construed, I believe correctly so in the majority of cases, to be an indication that the Government is hell-bent on tearing down our Christian society and our Christian way of life. I know that the Minister for Housing and Construction is not included in that group, but there are many members of his Party who have continually indicated that they have no truck with Christianity and that they regard it simply as a burden. We on the Opposition side of the House have adopted the stance that people should be given the choice. I would hope that the Minister recognises the wisdom of that and simply does not allow Party bias and bigotry to override the common sense which I believe he possesses. 
I will not be as wordy as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I will endeavour to make my comments straight to the point. First of all, the Opposition has indicated that it will oppose this Bill in its entirety. Let me take one or two of its clauses and explain the reasons why the Opposition has come to this conclusion. Clause 3 of the Bill refers to section 16 of the principal Act and endeavours to alter the composition of the Distribution Commissioners by removing the requirement that one of the three shall be the State Surveyor-General. It provides instead for a surveyor. 
-The honourable member for Fisher says that he wonders why. It is not for me to reflect on what motivates a Minister who is absent because of a family bereavement but I cannot help but look at the record of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  over the last 3 years and at the manner in which he shuffled electoral officers like a pack of cards to ensure a proper redistribution in Western Australia. I am not familiar with the details now because this happened a couple of years ago. There was talk around the place that a bit of hokey-pokey was going on in another State and somebody was promoted. I believe that the Australian Labor Party Government is capable of doing this without quivering. Because it has been corrupt in so many other areas, it follows that it is corrupt in the area of electoral reform. This change is motivated by a desire on the part of the Government to appoint more of its friends as Distribution Commissioners so that it can bring about redistributions which suits its own ends. As it stands at the moment the people of each State are protected because, whether we like it or not, the State Surveyor-General is a person who has been appointed by a State government and a person who we hope would have a great deal of integrity. There can be no argument about that. What you are proposing is to enable him to place somebody - 
I compliment the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on his comments- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
There has been a cognate debate on these 3 Bills and I did not realise that we had completed the Committee stage of the debate on the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. There are one or two points I should like to make without canvassing arguments which have been presented previously. I should like it to be recorded that I too express concern at the change whereby the Prime Minister will take responsibility of authorising the interception of telephone conversations. A Prime Minister is frequently away from the capital city and away from Australia. I believe that the individual's right to expect privacy when using his telephone is so important that this responsibility should lie at a lower level to ensure that there is every opportunity for the authorisation to be viewed by a responsible person in the political field at all times. 
I have promised to keep my comments brief. I also want to draw to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  the fact that in Brisbane on 1 September it was suggested in a magistrate's court that the recording of a telephone conversation which was used in evidence was not an illegal action. It rather surprised me that although the Press in Brisbane gave such prominence to the fact that the manner in which the evidence had been gathered was being contested the decision that the recording was not an illegal action was simply printed without any comment. I hope that the Attorney-General, for whom I have respect in certain fields will make it quite plain that it is illegal for people to record telephone conversations without the knowledge of the other party or, alternatively, without using a device which gives a bleep every 15 seconds which indicates that the telephone conversation is being recorded. 
This is a very important issue because we could well reach the stage in Australia where people will get the impression that it is not illegal to record telephone conversations. If we reach that stage we will not know where we are going. If the courts accept the tape recording of telephone conversations as evidence the next area of concern will be that people can cut tapes about, omit words and present a completely different version of the actual telephone conversation. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral will ensure that the fact that the recording of telephone conversations is illegal is widely advertised. I hope he will use his influence from one side of the country to the other to discourage acceptance of any tape evidence in court. 
Finally, I should like to say that on 10 July I wrote to the AttorneyGeneral requesting information on the technical details of telephone tapping. When I say 'technical details' I am referring to the manner in which it is done. He passed my letter to the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  who replied to me on 8 October. The reply seemed to convey that either the departmental officers who compiled the reply simply did not understand what I was seeking or, alternatively, they did not want to understand it. They simply wrote back to me telling me how people who work on the telephone exchange wires sometimes cause noise on the lines and so on. I have again written to the Postmaster General asking him to be more specific. I should hope also that the AttorneyGeneral will use his influence to ensure that I receive a reply to this letter. My question is not motivated by ill will. I simply seek information. It is a subject in which I have been interested since the day I arrived in this Parliament. I shall continue to pursue my interest in the right of privacy for individuals. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I should like to comment briefly. I shall not allow that challenge from the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  to pass, because honourable members on this side of the chamber do believe in legal aid. We believe that this Bill should be considered by a committee so that we can better understand what the Government is proposing and perhaps suggest improvement No matter what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or any other honourable member on this side has said, it must not be construed as a question of our being opposed to legal aid. It is a question of from where legal aid is best administered. Whether the Federal Government helps the States to allow them to broaden their own systems or whether another system is best for Australia, is the question we pose. To suggest that we are totally opposed to legal aid is simply another case of misleading comment. 
Clauses agreed to. 
To describe the 2 previous speakers on the Government side as producing emotional speeches would be an understatement. It is a pity that both speakers have lost sight of the realities of politics and what politics are all about. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  reeled off the names of 8 professors who had suggested that what is being done is improper, but that is simply a ploy, a tactic, which could be used by anybody. At the click of my fingers I could produce the names of 8 professors who would say that what the Opposition is doing is right. In the academic field there is always a difference of opinion and one could call on people whose opinion has great weight to say that one 's case is right. 
I ask members of the Government and their supporters whether they believe that the Opposition enjoys what it is endeavouring to do. We of the Opposition have been forced into this situation by the ineptitude, the bungling and the mismanagement that we have seen reigning supreme in this country in the last 1 8 months or so. We did not lightly take the decision that Supply should be deferred. It was an agonising decision for a great number of members of the Opposition, both here and in the other place. 
-Looking at the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  causes it. Honourable members on this side of the House recognise that the democratic system under which we live is precious. We have no intention of prostituting that ourselves, of raping it or tearing it apart, as previous speakers on the government side have suggested. But when we look back at the dramas of recent months, when we look at the backbenches on the government side on which sit former Ministers who have been sacked for misleading this Parliament, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam),  and the people of Australia, and when we consider the Cabinet reshuffles which have taken place, it is little wonder that the people of Australia have little confidence in the Government which now administers this nation 
If we have made a mistake, if the people do not want another say about the future of this country, surely come the next election, whether it be for half the Senate or for the House of Representatives, we on this side will pay the price if we have misjudged the mood of the nation. I sincerely believe that the people of Australia who live under a Constitution which contains the safeguard of an Upper House, really want another say. It is wrong for the Government to claim that the Senate is indulging in an improper practice. I am proud to say that I represent an electorate which was named after  Sir Samuel  Griffith, one of the fathers of our Constitution. The founders of our Constitution had the wisdom to foresee some 76 years ago a situation in which chaos would reign so supreme that the people, by means of the Upper House, should be given another say as to whether they wanted the Government of the day to continue. 
It is only because of this chaos that the Senate gave notice and then in fact voted to defer Supply. It was for no other reason. It is regrettable that members of the Government have suggested that that action simply is a selfish endeavour on the part of honourable members on this side of the Parliament to get back into power. The previous  speaker  suggested that Malcolm Fraser, the Leader of the Opposition, spent Sunday night or Monday night on the telephone ringing all the editors of the various newspapers throughout Australia. That was yet another regrettable comment by a supporter of the Government. The honourable member must think that the editors of our newspapers are but saplings that can be bent at whim. It is absolutely ridiculous to suggest that the Leader of the Opposition suddenly blinks his eyes and they drag out the editorials that they had stored away months ago. I conclude by saying - 
-I move: 
That this House views with concern the failure of the Government to take action to restrict the effect of inflation on people with low incomes receiving superannuation or receiving welfare payments and believes the Government should take urgent action to ensure that these people are not adversely prejudiced by its economic mismanagement. 
On 9 July 1974, which is some 15 months ago, I saw fit to put that motion on notice. I can only say that in that time the situation has continued to deteriorate. Regrettably today it is not only the superannuitants and the aged who are reliant upon government payments who are in difficulty, but the entire nation which is facing grave problems. My motion refers to 2 particular groups in the area to which I shall direct my comments today. All members on this side of the House fully support my moving this motion today. I might say that I do not have only the support of members on this side of the House. I should like to refer to one of Professor Henderson's recent reports- the first main report on poverty in Australiawhich was presented in April 1975.I refer to some of his comments which serve to back up the claims that I am making in the House today. In referring to inflation, which is the curse of the nation regardless of what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  might have said in the House this morning when he made a claim that it is on the downturn- it is a particularly Australian curse produced by the present Government- Professor Henderson says:   . . inflation favours the active and the powerful; the position of poor people deteriorates. Those who own real assets such as houses, land and some shares gain from inflation, as these assets rise in value. The poor renters - 
And so many people on fixed incomes, superannuation and aged pensions are in this category-  are faced either with increases in rents they cannot afford to pay or with eviction to make way for more profitable commercial development. Those who own assets gain because they can borrow against them and make profits: they repay their debts later in depreciated currency; and the rate of interest lags behind the rate of increase in prices, as it did in Australia in 1973 - 
I add, also in 1974-  when prices rose 13 percent but rates of interest were around 9 per cent . . . Professional men and strong trade unions adjust their incomes upwards just as fast as or faster than prices. 
Those who suffer most severely are small savers with deposits in savings banks which are rapidly losing their real value. Rich people no longer hold their wealth in fixed interest securities, but poorer people have not the knowledge or opportunity to hold it in ways that provide protection against inflation. Those who have retired on a pension fixed in terms of money suffer the full loss of purchasing power as consumer prices rise and they get no compensation. 
In fact, under the present Government they have suffered a further attack because of this Government's policies. In this concluding paragraph of that segment Professor Henderson says: 
In our judgment. no country with a continuing inflation rate of over 10 per cent has been able to prevent this causing grave hardship to important groups of poor people. We do not believe that Australia can escape this consequence. We therefore recommend that one element essential in any program to reduce poverty in Australia is that the rate of inflation be brought under control and that the reduction be at least to a rate of less than 10 per cent a year. 
In contrast are the remarks of our Prime Minister who postulates and goes from one end of the country to the other telling us that we have never been better off. I believe that in a discussion of the problems confronting those people who are superannuitants and those who are dependent upon government pensions we must understand the full impact of inflation on this country. It has been said time and again that regrettably since the Government came to power it has simply sought to hide behind a world situation. It has done nothing about the situation which exists in this country. In the last year nearly every Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development country has had a downturn in the rate of inflation. But inflation in Australia has continued to climb. When we look at some of the other countries where inflation has continued to climb, we are in good company. Iceland has an inflation rate of 47.4 per cent. I must confess that I have not been to Iceland lately and I do not know what is making its inflation rate spiral. But 
I do not believe that the Prime Minister or any other member on the Government side could make a comparison between Iceland and Australia. The country with the second worst inflation rate is a Labour dominated country with a socialist government- Great Britain. It has an inflation rate of 26 per cent, slightly greater than ours. The present British Government has the same system as our present Government has: it is motivated by the same philosophical approach of socialism. Look what is happening in that country. Up goes the inflation rate. The inflation rate is still high in Ireland. Turkey has an inflation rate which is a little higher than ours, but that rate has fallen in the last year. In Finland the inflation rate is comparable with our own. Australia comes next. Inflation in all other countries has gone down but our inflation continues to go up. This Government, by doing nothing about it, is continuing to erode the position of those persons who have either spent their life putting money away for their retirement, those persons who are dependent upon some company superannuation scheme and those persons who are dependent upon the Government for increases in pensions. I intend to set the proof of that in the next few minutes. 
I do not think that anybody needs to be toldand even Government supporters will acknowledge this privately- that those persons who have ceased to work and who have lived in such a way that they were frugal and put money away for their retirement years, are simply seeing the purchasing power of their money disappear. The current rate of inflation in this country has the effect of reducing $ 100 placed in a bank to a purchasing power of $83 or $84 in 12 months. That point cannot be contested. 
Let us look at the situation with regard to superannuitants- the people who all their lives have made a contribution from their salaries to some private superannuation scheme. Over 75 per cent of Australians are employed in the private sector. So superannuitants comprise a significant group of Australians. Three-quarters of our population could rely upon superannuation schemes introduced by their employers. There have been a host of articles in recent times on inflation, wage rises etc. in various national newspapers. But a very high percentage of companies today do provide their employees with an opportunity to subscribe to a superannuation scheme. Those persons who have retired have in many instances seen their former employers virtually disappear off the map. We have had not only a downturn in business; we have had the disappearance of many companies. So many people who are retired would have faced a dismal future if the company that employed them had not placed its superannuation scheme with some other big organisation such as an insurance company. Many people who belonged to superannuation schemes and were nearing retirement now face the problem that their employing company has folded. These people have been laid off. They have been given a lump sum payment. They must stand by and watch inflation ripping at the heart of that lump sum payment. They know that their future is as uncertain as the future would have been in 1929. 1930. 1931 and 1932. 
The third group of persons consists of those who are dependent upon the Government. It does not matter what Government speakers may say in defending the Government against these charges and accusations: there is no getting away from the fact that persons who are in receipt of pensions suffer greatly as a result of the rate of inflation which has gripped this country since the present Government came to power. Before 1 refer further to that aspect, let me say here and now that I believe that if a Liberal-Country Party Government had been in power between 1972 and 1975, Australia would have had a higher rate of inflation than it suffered in the previous ten or twenty years when the Liberal-Country Party was in office. We could not have avoided the effects of the world situation: there is no argument about that. 
-I beg your pardon? 
-But-and the message comes after the 'but'- the facts of life are that the inflation rate that Australia would have suffered under a Liberal-Country Party Government would have been much less than the rate of inflation under this Government, which is excessive. What do honourable members on the Government side say to that? They are very silent, very silent indeed. Australia would not have been able to avoid a rate of inflation of perhaps 8 per cent or 9 per cent. The level of inflation above that rate has been the fault of the present Government. It has been absolutely its fault because the present Government has done everything to encourage inflation for it sees inflation as a means of implementing some of those cherished socialist policies which it waited so long to introduce as its members wandered about on this side of the House for 23 years. 
-That is another factor which will help to sweep the Labor Party from power. I say to the honourable member for Isaacs who has just interjected and who holds his seat by a slender majority that that is what will happen to the Government when it finally bows to the will of the people and presents itself to them. ' " Let' me. deal further with those people who are age pensioners, invalid pensioners or who have large families and who rely to a degree on such social.service benefits as child endowment. Let us look at the situation of these people. No matter how the various pension rates which these people receive may be increased from time to time, the fact of life is that the increase in the rate of inflation is so great that, in the interim, these people continue to suffer. A decision was announced last August to grant increased pensions. But it takes weeks and weeks to introduce the -necessary legislation and for the proposals to become reality. The decision is based on factors existing- months before it is taken. The rate of inflation continues. Pensions reach a certain level but.in the interim, because of the effects of inflation the value of such pensions has declined. 
If honourable members opposite do not know already, I can assure them that today pensioners pray, that nothing will go wrong in their homes which will require them to call on the services of a handyman or a tradesman. The stage has been reached where, as a result of the high rates of taxation that the Government continues to impose on incomes, pensioners who call a plumber, an electrician, a television serviceman or a- person to do any other jobs or to fix other items around a house must pay between onethird and one-half of their week's pension for the provision of those simple services. The Government is very much to blame for pensioners being required to fork out such large payments. A number of pensioners have contacted me to complain that servicemen have called to carry out work which takes three-quarters of an hour and have charged $16 for that call. This is money which they simply cannot afford. Because of the cost, they will not in future be able to afford to have such things as broken drains fixed. People such as plumbers are living at a time when as working persons they have the opportunity to shield themselves against the effects of inflation. These people may charge $16 but half of that amount would be paid as income tax to the present Government so that it may continue to finance its extraordinary policies that we have seen contribute to the ruination of this nation in the last2'/6 to 3 years. 
In conclusion, I repeat what I said at the outset: The cost of living is becoming a real problem to those who are retired and those who are dependent upon pensions. These people have attained a certain standard of living in this country. They now see that standard being eroded. I might add that half of the trouble with the Ministers in the present Government and the reason why they are opposed to going to the polls is to be found in their standard of living. On the whole, they are motivated by selfishness. No Minister has yet been in office for 3 years. They know that once they have held ministerial office for 3 years they are on the gravy train for life. They will have no worries because certain perks will come their way. They are desperate to get their hands on those perks by completing 3 years service as Ministers. That is why they are so upset at the prospect of an election. 
-As the honourable member for Wakefield interjects- and as you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  interjections are out of order- all that the Ministers are entitled to now is a state funeral. As one can understand the desire of Ministers to attain a certain standard of living, surely one can argue that the retired workers of Australia have every right to seek to retain the standard of living for which they worked. The actions of the Government have resulted in the savings of these people being eroded. The Government's actions have rendered useless superannuation benefits that retired people receive. Only very fortunate people belong to superannuation schemes in which the companies subscribing to those schemes increase payments to keep pace with the effects of inflation. Many superannuation schemes are incapable of keeping up with the rate of inflation. People who retired on what was considered a fair superannuation payment 4 years or 5 years ago are now floundering because of the incapacity and inability of their former employers to meet the effects of the rate of inflation. Regrettably, as I said before, many of these employers have ceased to operate. 
If the first  speaker  for the Government in this debate does not believe that superannuation schemes and superannuitants face problems, I draw attention to the  National Times  of 18-23 August which carries the headline: 'Inflation and Wage Rises put Pension Funds at risk'. The  Australian Financial Review  on 3 April had an article headed: 'How inflation eats into superannuation schemes.' The  Australian Stock Exchange Journal  in May 1974 presented an article entitled: 'Superannuation- Is it still the Pot of 
Gold '. On 4 November 1 974, an article headed 'Stagflation's Price- Super funds Hit', appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  That is the story. It is time the Government did something about this problem. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Clause 1 states: 
This Act may be cited as the Travel Agents Act 1 975. 
I regret very much that the Government Whip saw fit to terminate the second reading debate by gagging the whole business. More than any other person in this Parliament, I am responsible through my early agitation, for a Bill such as this coming before the Parliament. It was at the beginning of 1972 that I brought to this chamber the very sad news that many Australians were suffering as a result of the activities of Travel House of Australia. The speeches I made in April and March of 1 972 are recorded in  Hansard  and recall those very tragic times when Australians were stranded both here and abroad because of the activities of a number of dubious people who were the directors of this company, Travel House of Australia. 
This Act may be cited as the Travel Agents Act 1 975. 
I submit that the matter being put before the Committee by the honourable member for Griffith is not relevant to that clause, and I ask that you rule accordingly. 
This amendment no doubt effects an improvement to the original Bill which was presented to the Parliament last March, but I question the wisdom of having a 3-man Board with a  chairman  who has to be a legal practitioner of the High Court or another Federal court, supreme court, etc., a  deputy chairman  and just one other person. I do not believe that the travel industry will get sufficient representation on the Board that the Government proposes to set up under this legislation. I am not in a position to move any amendment to the suggestion made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  but I would appreciate some explanation, firstly, for why the Board is to be such a small body, and, secondly, why the Government is insisting that the  Chairman  must be a legal practitioner of the High Court, etc. To my mind this will not be the type of job that necessarily requires a person to have a legal background. To my mind this area need not be so restrictive as the Minister suggests it should be in this Bill. 
Before the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  rises to answer some points that have have been raised I would like to leave with him the thought that the travel industry is the most competitive industry in the world. A Bill has been introduced to shut out shysters but it should not have the effect of putting so many ties upon those honest people who are in the industry that their jobs become - 
Clause 1 1 as it now stands concerns me greatly in that it states: 
The Minister may remove a member other than the deputy chairman from office for misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. 
The point that causes me concern is the inclusion of the word 'misbehaviour'. If a Minister is given that power to remove somebody for misbehaviour it becomes a case of what he regards as misbehaviour. There is absolutely no appeal for that person. If there were a Minister who never touched liquor, for instance, who observed a member of the Board drinking alcohol he might say: 'That man is misbehaving. Therefore, out the door he goes'. I am not suggesting that the present Minister is likely to exercise that right. I ask the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and the shadow Minister at the table, the honourable member for McPherson,  Mr Eric  Robinson, to take on board the suggestion that we move for the deletion of 'misbehaviour' or alternatively define it far better than at present because that is a very dangerous word to put in an Act and could lead to almost anything. 
As the work which is the subject of the motion is in my electorate I simply say that I welcome it on behalf of the people whom I represent. I am quite sure that the hospital will be a better place after the new construction is completed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
The House is debating the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1975, the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill 1975 and the State Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1975. 1 want to direct my attention principally to the latter of these 3 Bills. However, before doing so I want to refute the argument put forward by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  at the beginning of what was otherwise a thoughtful speech. I refer to the comment that the honourable member made in what was for him a very shabby and uncustomary manner when he tried to blame the Opposition's decision to defer the Budget for certain problems with which the Government is now being confronted. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  on behalf of the Opposition has moved a motion to refer the legislation to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, of which the honourable member for Brisbane is the  Chairman.  The honourable member for Brisbane tried to excuse the refusal of the Minister to accept this amendment by saying that the Parliament has been sitting for the last fortnight. A few weeks ago at the end of September or in early October that same Minister made a promise to the House. In his second reading speech on the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill he said: 
It is the Government's intention, therefore, that, as with the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill, further debate on this Bill will not occur until there has been adequate time for the Bill to be examined by all who will be affected by it I will be taking whatever action is necessary in the next few months to ensure that the Bill is explained to and understood by the Aboriginal community - 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth simply seeks that- time. A month ago the Minister saw the complications of the Bill to be such that he felt that some months should be given for it to be considered. But we all know what is motivating the Minister. Because the present Government is marking time in this chamber it is desperately reaching out and seeking legislation to keep the Parliament going even until 6 o'clock each evening. So it grabs these Aboriginal Bills and brings them in. That is the first point. The second point is that now the High Court of Australia has come down with a decision that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory shall qualify for Senate representation the mastermind of the Australian Labor Party, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  has said to the Minister: 'You had better get that into the House and get it through because there might be a few votes in the Northern Territory for us'. I see the honourable member for Brisbane breaking up. He cannot even look me in the eye because he knows the exact truth of what I have just said. And the Minister looks his usual sullen, unattractive self. 
The State Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill proposes to spend in excess of $3 5m during the year 1975-76 to help alleviate the housing problem for Aboriginal people, which still remains. The Minister expressed the hope in his second reading speech that by 1982 we- and I speak of Australia as a nation when I say 'we'- might have completed housing the Aboriginal people. In that speech the Minister commended members of all parties for the consideration of the legislation or of Aboriginal problems on a basis free of party politics. The nub of it all is that we are all concerned. I was very proud to listen today to the contribution of the honourable member for Wentworth, the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, because there is every possibility that he will be the next Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and his words indicate that the Liberal and National Country Parties have come to understand better and better the difficulties involved in introducing legislation and programs which will sufficiently meet the demands and requirements of these people. 
I can assure my honourable friend that he will never lead anything and after the next election he will be back from where he came, scrubbing the streets of his electorate with the heavy broom that the local council issued to him before he came into this place. I was trying to be non-partisan but unfortunately the Minister had to introduce politics. I will not spend too much time heaping praise on the Minister. A certain problem exists in my electorate which I believe will be multiplied throughout the country if the present Minister continues in office. A couple of years ago the Government acquired a hostel in the Brisbane suburb of Hill End. It was previously a Baptist theological college and it was converted to a hostel. It was the first such hostel in Australia and at the time a lot of concern was expressed. One of the predecessors of the present Minister- he is now the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  because the Prime Minister recognised that he was a fumbler in the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs- described the people of Hill End and West End as a pack of racists. I believe that at that time those people had every right to express concern because nobody knew what the Government was doing. 
It is with a considerable degree of pleasure that I inform the House that since the Aboriginal people have moved into the hostel I have not had one word of complaint about activities at that hostel. It was originally run by a retired Air Force officer and is now being run by 2 Aboriginal women. There is another hostel in my electorate in the suburb of Hawthorne. Again I have not had one complaint. I perceive- I think all fair minded Australians would perceive- that in the Aboriginal community there is an acceptance of responsibility which we have not previously witnessed. More people than Neville Bonner can be pointed to these days as examples of people from the Aboriginal race who are successful. In Queensland- the State which is so often described by Labor politicians as being patronising towards Aboriginals- in the State Parliament there is an Aboriginal member from North Queensland. Queensland is the only State in Australia to have placed an Aboriginal member in this Parliament or in its own State Parliament. I hope that later when the Minister replies he will not allow himself to be possessed by his dislike of Queensland and forget the facts. When the Australian Labor Party gives an Aborigine the opportunity to be a candidate for one of its winnable seats I will dip my lid to it. But to date only the National Country Party and the Liberal Party have done that. 
I do not expect to be on this earth forever, and that proposition could be considered at some later stage. I want to refer to a matter which has caused a lot of controversy in Brisbane. I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs recognises that he has erred in the method of purchase of the home at what is known as Trinity Lane. The Minister must be a fairly weak individual. I am not being personal, but that is all that I can assume. When a group of Aboriginals sat in a Commonwealth building in Adelaide Street, Brisbane- Leighton House- demanding certain things be done the Minister spoke to them and said: 'Your wish shall be granted'. The Aborigines had been there for 10 days and the Minister agreed to allow them to purchase the home for $32,000. If the Minister had not seen the home when he agreed to them purchasing it or did not see it before it was purchased, shame on him. If he did see it before it was purchased and agreed to it being purchased, even more shame on him. Unfortunately that house has been the centre of controversy. I do not believe that it does anybody's cause any good when bad judgment such as we see in the purchase of that house increases tension between the races. The Press release concerning the Minister's announcement states that a  Mr Watson  said: 
Most of the group here has given hostels a go; there's a community rejection of them. 
I visited that hostel last weekend. Hardly any of the originals are left there. Most of them moved out. The people who are presently residing in that place are from all over Queensland. Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, the company set up by the Government to purchase Aboriginal accommodation, is furious at the manner in which it has been simply by passed completely and not consulted. More recent news is that the Minister has agreed to the group purchasing other homes in this same street. The problem of this particular hostel is that it is simply not suitable firstly for 1 6 people and secondly for up to 25 people who at times reside there. It has one flush toilet. 
It is not very flash. It has one flush toilet. If one looks inside the hostel and goes through- I say this on the side of the residents- one finds that the inside of that house is immaculate. It is swept twice a day. The self-styled or appointed supervisor ensures that the highest possible standard of cleanliness is maintained. But the provision of one toilet for 16 people is not good enough. If the Minister is going to allow this other group, the tribal council, to go off buying houses throughout Australia anywhere it wishes I suggest he might well abandon Aboriginal Hostels Ltd because it is simply not fair to that organisation if the Government itself is going to set up a competing organisation. 
On visiting the home at Trinity Lane one sees a black power flag flying from a recently erected mast. As far as I am concerned it does not worry me one little bit. If the residents wanted to put the hammer and sickle outside their own home that would be all right. But surely in the interests of racial harmony and of the acceptance of the Government's program- it involves expenditure in excess of $3 5m- of the acceptance of the program of housing these people in the cities, it would be wise not to flutter a flag which could initiate or awaken racism which may be nonexistent or dormant in the minds and hearts of white people. I simply say that the flag is a symbol which can be counter-productive. Whilst it does not worry me in the least, I hope that the people in the Department and those associated with tribal councils recognise that if they want their cause to be promoted, in the long term that sort of thing is not in their best interests. 
Furthermore, the house which has been purchased is in a narrow, one-way and pokey street. It is close to the houses on the other side. If we are to have a policy of putting 16 people in a house with only three or four bedrooms we can expect only that 16 people will make noise which is far in excess of that which a normal family of six will make. So once again inadvertently or purposely- I do not know what motivates the Minister- we are contributing to racial tension and ill-will by the noise and disturbance which come from so many people living in the one residence. Surely if the Government is going to pursue a policy whereby it is to expend in excess of $35m in one year in purchasing accommodation for Aboriginal people some thought must be given to the ramifications and side effects of the actual spending. Regrettably Trinity Lane has commanded a lot of bad Press publicity. As I said previously, my visit there on Saturday afternoon was unannounced and nobody prepared for my arrival. I found the house to be completely clean. I drove past at midnight and the street and the house were quiet. I am assured that it is not always that quiet and that Saturday night is party night. Originally every night was party night. 
-You are a very nauseating Minister for a start. 
-You are very nauseating and you are a weak-kneed Minister because the moment that a number of people lock themselves into a building and start rattling the sword you say: 'Give them what they want. I do not want any embarrassment as a Minister. I do not want to go down the same path as my predecessor.' Public money is no problem to the Minister. He spends it without thought and without wisdom because that is his makeup. The manner in which he has administered his portfolio is typical of the way the Government has approached most of the problems of this country and it is no wonder that the people of this nation cannot wait for the next election. I hope that the Minister will take those comments on board. The problem is probably widespread. Few job opportunities are available for Aboriginal people, or for any people, and the problem at the moment is magnified because of the economic situation. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Why has the Government instructed the Australian Postal Commission to investigate the proposal that all Australian Government departments, commissions and statutory bodies, State governments and local councils which continue to have the insignia 'OHMS' printed on their envelopes be advised that at a yet to be determined date their mail will be no longer be carried because of the existence of that insignia? 
I want to talk about the way this Government has brutalised the great democracy of this chamber - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 6.9 p.m. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Adjournment 5 November 1975 REPRESENTATIVES 2839 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 - Mr Speaker - 

 - Mr Speaker - 

 - Mr Speaker - 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the petty and childish criticism directed to the Family Law Act by certain State judges? Will he ensure that the law is administered as the Act requires. Will he assure the House that the Government has no intention of making even a minor alteration to the present Act prior at least to it being given a long period in practice. If slight changes are then necessary will he assure the House that changes will not be against the principles which have been firmly embodied in the Bill which was acclaimed by members of all parties in this chamber and in the Senate. 
In his absence I should like to record my congratulatory comments to the newly elected  Speaker,  the right honourable member for Bruce,  Mr Snedden,  and also to the returned  Chairman  of Committees,  Mr Lucock.  Both these gentlemen will bring experience to the tasks that have been allotted to them by the Parliament and will distinguish themselves in the carrying out of their duties. I also congratulate those new members of the Parliament who have today delivered their maiden speeches. I have been in this chamber for almost a decade and I do not think there has been a day in those 10 years on which all honourable members have been so impressed by so many new members and by the quality of their contributions. 
Debate interrupted. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  certainly injected some heat into his contribution to the debate. As he claimed that the migrants who have come forward under the amnesty this time have been motivated to do so by the pilot scheme which his Government introduced 2 years ago, it might be appropriate to remind the House that, when this Government came to office, there were people who had come forward in 1974 under the Grassby amnesty scheme whose applications still had not been completely processed. So if they had looked at that experience they would certainly not be encouraging their friends to come forward today. 
It is obvious that the Opposition is devoid of ideas today because the subject of the matter of public importance has been taken from the notice paper where it appears as Notice No. 1 1 given for General Business Thursday. The Opposition is so inept that it is unable to think of some worthwhile matter to raise. It went through the notices which have been placed on the notice paper, settled on No. 1 1 and said: 'Let us give it a run'. 
The matter for discussion concerns migrants. I have great pleasure in supporting the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  because I represent an electorate which contains some 6000 Greek people, 2000 people of Russian extraction, 1000 Italians and 2000 other people of non-British origin. So Opposition members are not the only ones who know what it is like to hear a foreign-sounding voice in their electorates. But I suggest that they do not know anything about the hopes and aspirations of migrant people. Further I suggest that in the last few weeks the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has acted like the Pied Piper who played the flute and thousands. upon thousands of rats followed him to their destruction. He is leading innocent people to disregard what the Minister is offering. This will mean that at the end of the 3 month period for which an amnesty has been declared those illegal immigrants who have not come forward might be deported if they are found. The honourable member for Melbourne has acted in such a way as to discourage people from stepping forward. 
I noticed that the Minister said that the number of people who have offered to come forward or who have come forward since the Australia Day announcement is 4058. Let us examine the States and compare New South Wales with Victoria. Those 2 States have similar populations. In New South Wales, where there was no Pied Piper or honourable member for Melbourne, some 2605 people have come forward in the first 4 weeks seeking amnesty but in Victoria, where this man of great influence resides, the number is less than 1000. Without doubt the honourable member for Melbourne has created doubts in the minds of many Victorians, to such an extent that in the long term they will work to their detriment. Let me say this to the people of Victoria: When you compare the results of the man who is now the Commissioner for race relations,  Mr Grassby-  a former Minister for Immigration- when 367 people stepped forward, with the results of the new Liberal Minister you will see that the new Minister has increased the previous number eleven-fold. This would indicate that the people of Australia have greater trust in the Liberals than they had in a Labor Government. To those people in Victoria let me say this: Do not allow your ears to be filled with the nonsense which comes from the mouths of the honourable member for Melbourne and the honourable member for Burke because what they say is to your detriment. 
Today's exercise by the Opposition is simply one to fill in time and to show that the limping tiger has a couple of teeth left. As with all the other teeth that have fallen from the mouth of that tiger, in my view this has been a rather unfortunate and -I do not like to use the wordrotten exercise because it has worked to the detriment of people who are being given one last chance. The honourable member for Melbourne, who is the Opposition's spokesman on immigration, suggests that the period should be one year. In one month this Government has managed to get eleven times the number of people to come forward that  Mr Grassby  and his party did, so surely there is no necessity for a 12 month amnesty. As long as people do not try to promote themselves at the expense of the overall good of others this amnesty should work as well in 3 months as it ever could. 
Opposition members claim to be the only people who care about migrants but I would like to put on the record the undertaking which was forced upon the people who fled the communists in South Vietnam. They had to declare: 
I solemnly declare that if admitted to Australia for permanent residence I will not engage in political activity of any kind, and that I will not permit my name to be lent to or associated with any such prohibited activity. 
That was the declaration which the Labor Government forced on people who came to this country from Vietnam. Never in the history of Liberal Party governments has any migrant been forced to sign a declaration that he would never take part in the legitimate political activities of this country. Despite its action, Labor claimed to have been a friend of the migrants. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Burke, referred to the work force and it is appropriate to remind the House that with over 300 000 Australians unemployed, a direct legacy of the Labor Government, we have an obligation to the Australian born and those who have come to this country to get them back into the work force. 
If at the end of 3 months illegal immigrants have not taken advantage of the amnesty I sincerely believe that we have an obligation to every Australian, whether he be a recently arrived Australian or one who was born here, to set about systematically to deport them. I believe that the honourable member for Melbourne is highly irresponsible because he knows he is closing the gate on the opportunity of those people to remain here. Finally, if it had not been for  Mr Grassby  and his high-flown ideas and some of the silly concepts held by him and the former Labor Government we would not have half the problems we have today. There are many stories about the easy visas, about how people bought a return ticket which was all that was necessary in order to get a Labor visa to come to Australia, then cashed in the return part of the ticket and, because they already had their visa, trundled into Australia with the intention of staying permanently but without being screened. What the Minister has done is timely and correct and the system deserves to succeed. I hope that the honourable member for Melbourne, the honourable member for Burke and other members of the Labor Party will stop being silly and get right behind the system and the scheme. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
-Thank you  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The House is having a very special afternoon. Last Thursday evening at about 10.28 p.m. the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  concluded his speech and I had the opportunity to begin my speech then. Consequently I have lost a little of my time. On that occasion I congratulated the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  on his elevation to the Chair, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his return to the position of  Chairman  of Committees, and I complimented the new members in this House who made their maiden speeches last week on the quality of their contributions. In the time that remains I intend to refer not simply to the maiden speeches which were made last week but also to the speeches made by Opposition members in this chamber. As did most of the editorials and weekly reviews of events in Canberra, I regarded last week as a week of tragedy in that the Opposition members and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  seemed to spend the week making denunciation after denunciation, in speech after speech, of none other than the GovernorGeneral of this country. I can understand how disappointed many of them must feel at being suddenly ejected from this side of the House, either out of the Parliament or back to the Opposition benches but I think it does them no credit to spend their time condemning the GovernorGeneral. We recall the speech made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in which, in a half-smart way, he said that the Privileges Committee should consider various aspects of the Governor-General's actions and he suggested that there was a conspiracy. Standing order 95 leaves the way open to any member of this House to refer a matter to the Privileges Committee, but the honourable member for Chifley indicated his shallowness of intent by doing nothing other than using that means as a way of avoiding standing order 74 which rules out of order comments or imputations against the Queen or her representative. 
I sincerely hope, now the second week of the parliamentary sittings has commenced, that Opposition members will have got off their chests that intense feeling of dislike and even hatred they hold for the Governor-General and will recognise that it is time we settled down to proper debate in this House. If honourable members re-examine history, and very recent history too, they will concede that it is not the fault of the Governor-General that they had to go to the polls on 13 December last year but perhaps the fault of those who drew up our Constitution three-quarters of a century ago. As late as 1970, only 5 years ago, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, was saying in this chamber when referring to a Supply Bill: 
This Bill will be defeated in another place. The Government should then resign. 
On 25 August 1970 he said in relation to the Budget: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. If the motion is defeated, we will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
That little speech was made only 9 months after the 1969 elections, and if the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which was then represented in the Senate, had decided to combine forces with the Australian Labor Party Opposition that year and throw out the Budget, in  Mr Whitlam  's own words, the Government of that day would have had no alternative but to face the people. Yet when the boot was on the other foot honourable members opposite indulged in denunciation after denunciation of the motives and the integrity of the Governor-General, a man who they themselves chose to appoint to that high position. 
-One of those honourable members opposite who was returned to the Parliament just said by way of interjection: 'We all make mistakes'. It is obvious that it was the intention of the Labor Government to place in that high position a man who would be putty in its hands and who would do what he was told. I would hope that a Governor-General, no matter by whom he was appointed, would be a man who maintained his integrity in the face of political pressure and onslaught and did what was best for the people and allowed by the Constitution of this nation. If the Labor Party has feelings about what happened last December perhaps it should direct those feelings towards the Senate, the other place, which constitutionally blocked the Budget. 
The Gallup poll figures which were issued only last week present a most interesting picture. The Gallup polls which, I think, usually canvass some 2600 Australians in all States, indicated that 8 1 per cent- 81 per cent, mind you- of all Australians agreed that it is a good idea to have an elected Senate to act as a House of review. A further break down of the figures shows that only 14 per cent of Australians are totally against our having both the lower House and the upper House of review. I wonder whether that entire 14 per cent is comprised of the few Labor supporters who remain in this place. It is significant that 81 per cent agree that we should have a House of review and that 5 per cent do not know, but that only 14 per cent of our fellow countrymen think along lines similar to those of the honourable members opposite who remain in this Parliament. Let me remind the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who continues to interject that more than two out of three Australian Labor Party voters approved of the idea of maintaining the Senate as the House of review. So the Labor Party is completely and utterly out of touch with what the average 
Australian, including its own political supporters, thinks fit. 
One of the tragedies is that none of us on this side of the House has the time to read out the Governor-General's Speech in this chamber. We are all aware that because of their childish boycott no member of the Opposition is aware of what the Governor-General told the people in the other place just a week ago. For the information of honourable members I wish to make reference to some short extracts in order to indicate that this Government, the GovernorGeneral's new government- the Fraser-led Liberal-National Country Party coalition- really has a plan to get Australia back on the rails. One of the first things the Governor-General said was this: 
My Government's immediate objective is to bring inflation under control so that there can again be jobs for all who want to work. 
He went on to say further 
My Government believes that adequate opportunities for the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social service provision, are dependent on people being free and encouraged to achieve their best. The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
He futher outlined: 
Control of inflation is the Government's first consideration. 
He said further: 
It will be necessary to economise on some worthwhile projects which are not urgent, in addition to continued action against waste and duplication . . . 
We all know how the previous Government set up schemes which in effect simply duplicated those already existing in the States. He further promised that in the next Budget, which I imagine will be introduced next August, the Government will begin implementing its tax indexation policy. I am glad that the honourable member for Prospect and one of the earlier Treasurers of the previous Government are here to learn that the Government proposes to introduce into the Parliament amending legislation to increase social service pensions and benefit rates every 6 months in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. All honourable members on this side of the House will remember how rumours were spread by the Labor Party from Perth to Broome and from Cape York to Tasmania to the effect that the Liberals would give the people nothing. But in his Speech the Governor-General, a man who has no political axe to grind, is telling the people of Australia that these things will happen in a few months' time. The Governor-General also outlined our proposal to re-establish the homes savings grant scheme. That is one proposal of which I particularly approve wholeheartedly. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you have been in this place for many years and you know that I have been an advocate of the right of privacy of the individual. This Liberal Government, this revitalised government, which had some of its ideas from a number of years back completely sorted out in Opposition, has promised that the subject of individual privacy will be referred to the Law Reform Commission, which I think is a most commendable move. One of the regrettable features of the previous Government was that whilst it gave lip service to a policy of privacy in a number of areas, including the scheme which provided for taxation deductions on housing loan interest, people were forced to give private information to government officials. A number of other things, of course, are contained in the Governor-General's Speech. I make a plea to honourable members opposite that they should not waste their time simply denouncing the Governor-General but that they should obtain a copy of his Speech and read it so that they will know what is our plan for the progress of this country in the future. 
I hope my concluding remarks will be regarded as coming from a person who does not see everything done by the previous Labor Government as being totally wrong. That they were bunglers has been established. Prior to the South Australian State election  Mr Dunstan  was running away from any association with the Federal Labor Party. Tom Burns, the Leader of the Queensland Branch of the Labor Party, was denouncing the Federal Labor Party.  Mr Jack  Egerton, the Vice  President  of the Australian Labor Party, I think used the word 'mugs' or something similar to describe the members of the Labor Party.  Mr Hawke  also had something to say. People from the top to the bottom of the Labor machine were denouncing the piteous performance which we witnessed in the previous 3 years. Indeed this House is strewn with the corpses of Labor Treasurers and other Ministers holding important portfolios who were sacked by that Leader with imagination, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who is now the Leader of the Opposition. 
Having said that, I concede that some of the proposals introduced by the previous Government were proposals which we should have introduced in earlier years. Although we have been given the huge task of curtailing expenditure and although we are faced with the responsibility of examining those areas in which expenditure cuts must be made, I hope that, like the mad tailor, we do not cut away so much of the cloth as to make it impossible to produce a good suit. There are things introduced by the previous Government which I believe must be left. But even if they are simply cut back a little the principle must be allowed to stand. If any member of the Opposition were to say to me: 'Please detail those things which you consider it was right for the Labor Government to do', I would say: 'See me later'. 
The previous Government did so much in its time in office that one was flat out keeping up with the amount of legislation and with the changes that took place in Australia. But among the thousands upon thousands of changes were some good things. I cite assistance in the region of sport and in the region of the arts. I am not calling for the continuation of that pyramid of parasites which clamoured around the skirt of the Australian Labor Party trying to get on the band wagon, to get in for the handouts, but I am asking that when our Ministers and their departmental officials examine what has been done, everything be judged in a just light to see not whether the saving of a million here or a million there will be worth while but whether the continuation of that which is there will be in the long term far more beneficial to each and every Australian. 

 Mr Lucock, now that you have come to the chair may I conclude,  Sir, by  offering you my congratulations on your return to the position of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker.  I know that with all your experience you will bring to this chamber a great deal of dignity in the coming years. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the move by the Queensland Government to change the rules relating to the admissibility of evidence? This followed a recent report. Is the Minister aware that the report suggested that tape recorded evidence become admissible as evidence in court? In view of the promise of the Government to refer the question of privacy to the Law Reform Commission, can the Minister indicate when this is likely to be done? Could he make an approach to the Queensland Government before it does alter those rules to suggest that the Commission have an opportunity to consider privately this very vital and important individual liberty? 
This afternoon I want to take advantage of this discussion on the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill to draw to the attention of honourable members a subject which I have canvassed many times previously in this Parliament. I do not want to appear to be a repetitive bore on this topic but now that we have had a change of government once again I want the new Ministry, including my friend and colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who is at the table, to be very much aware not only of the aspiration but also of the urgent need of the people of Brisbane to have the airport relocated. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr MartinOrder! The terms of the Bill have nothing to do with the siting of the Brisbane airport. I think that the terms of the Bill are fairly narrow and I will see that the honourable member keeps to the terms of the Bill. 
I respect your advice,  Sir. This  is the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill and I would like to suggest - 
I would like to suggest that, if the Brisbane airport project had been commenced, much of the extra costs to the industry would not have arisen and we would not be debating this Bill. I would like to promote the need for this to be done in an endeavour to avoid future cost rises. In 1972-73 the former Government assigned none other than the well known  Dr Coombs  to head a task force to review the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. I am very pleased to note that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has returned to the House. I hope that he will listen to these comments. Regrettably, one of the projects which was axed by the Australian Labor Party Government was the resiting of the Brisbane airport. In  Dr Coombs'  own words, the purpose of the program was 'to construct a new runway and taxiway system, and establish new international and domestic terminal facilities, with associated drainage, site filling and surcharging works'. The Labor Government scrapped that plan. The former Labor Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones - 
-My friend the honourable member for Hume asks me whether Alderman Jones had political amitions at one stage. He did have ambitions to enter Federal politics. 
I do not like to gloat. If the honourable member reads the history books he will find out. In a newspaper article Alderman Jones, a Labor man, is reported to have said: 
I have always had the greatest respect for  Dr Coombs,  but I am very disappointed that he has recommended the airport be deferred. 
There was an admission from a Labor man that the Labor Government, taking  Dr Coombs'  advice, had deferred the Brisbane airport project. I remember the battles in this Parliament when the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  was Minister for Transport. Night after night when I pleaded in this House for something to be done about the resiting of the airport he ignored me. But I remember the historic occasion when I spoke during the day in a grievance debate and he came into the chamber and in reply indicated some interest in the resiting of the Brisbane airport. 
My friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and I have been like dogs with a bone in pursuing the need for resiting the airport. We are relentless. It does not matter which Party is in power, we will not be deterred from our objective of bringing peace and quiet to the city of Brisbane.  Dr Coombs  himself said that the program was justified because the present main runway points, directly over the city of Brisbane and has noise effects on adjacent suburbs, making it necessary to impose a curfew on jet aircraft between the hours of 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I draw the attention of the honourable member for Griffith to the terms of the Bill. It is a Bill for an Act to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act 1952-1974. So far the honourable member has not touched on the terms of the Bill. 1 have given him a fair amount of latitude after earlier giving him my interpretation of the subject matter on which he would be allowed to speak. I suggest that he returns to the Bill otherwise 1 could be accused of coming to the opinion that he is flouting the ruling of the Chair, and I certainly would not like to come to that opinion. 
It would not be my desire,  Sir, to  see you forced into that corner. This is the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill. The Minister for Transport referred to the great importance of aviation as a means of transport in Australia. I am now just referring to what happens to aircraft when they land, where they land and how they affect people because I support his view that it is very important. I do not want to flout your ruling,  Sir, or  even to push my luck too far. I speak on behalf of the people of the Brisbane suburbs of Balmoral, Bulimba, Hawthorne and Norman Park; New Farm and Teneriffe which are in the electorate of the new honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson);  and Hamilton and Eagle Farm which are in the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley. 
The Labor Government introduced proposals in order to bypass the previous Liberal Government's plans, an objective perhaps more economical than that originally proposed for the protection of Brisbane from aircraft noise. The Treasury possibly has become one of the advocates of a cheaper plan for Brisbane. We have the Brisbane  Courier Mail  on side. Editorials often speak in favour of what the honourable member for Lilley and I have proposed. I read recently that the Reverend Dean George said that our advocacy was completely and utterly justified. 
I conclude on a very serious note and speak on behalf of people who were in these areas before the big aeroplanes came. I believe that if people are stupid enough to build a house under a flight path in this age of big aeroplanes it is their own fault. However, in the inner suburbs of Brisbane homes were built in the days of Tiger Moths and in days when we did not even have aeroplanes. Those people built their homes without a knowledge of the harassment and deprivation of privacy that the noise from aeroplanes can cause. I can remember being in a home when aeroplanes went over and the cupboards actually shook and the windows vibrated because of the noise. People who live away from aerodromes may think this is an amusing matter, but let me assure them that they are lucky that they do not have to put up with this intrusion. I hope that the Minister for Transport recognises that just as we gave the previous Labor Minister some time to get going- he did not do so, and life became very unpleasant for him- the Minister's lifestyle will be subjected to continued harassment if he docs not get cracking with a realignment of the Brisbane runways. 
We have just listened to the long tall Texan speaking on behalf of the Australian Labor Party and in 10 minutes he fully covered that Party's rural policy. He spent the last 10 minutes criticising this side of the House for its attitude on rural matters. However, it is not my intention to speak on rural issues this evening although it is appropriate to point out that the lone ranger on the other side of the House is the only country man left there. However, he would not have the problems with which farmers who grow wheat and raise cattle and sheep have to cope. It is obvious that another century will pass before the people in the country once again place their trust in the Labor Party if that is the best contribution it can make on rural matters. Looking at the Labor Party now and what it did to the rural sector it is little wonder that the people in country areas embraced, with one or two exceptions, the members of the National Country Party and the enlightened members of the Liberal Party. We know that the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  was once a greengrocer in Whyalla but just because he sold peas and beans I do not know how he considers that he has the right to come in here and speak on the rural industries. 
It is not my intention to take my full 10 minutes. Last week in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  there was a letter written to the Editor by someone who signed himself ' "Concerned" Wynnum '. The letter said: 
I noticed with interest the advertisement calling for casual staff to help the Government's 1976 national census on June 30. 
Does this mean the general public will be subjected to a repeat of the last census taking, where persons from our immediate areas were assigned to collect our census forms, having full access to all the information contained in it? 
It's no comfort that the form collectors are pledged to secrecy, or liable to a fine, in order to protect our privacy. 
Surely it couldn't be too difficult to assign the form collectors to areas outside their own immediate locality. 
I say 'Hear, hear!' to the sentiments being expressed by ' "Concerned" Wynnum'. In the past I have taken a particular interest in the question of privacy and I believe that information collecting by the Bureau of Census and Statistics can lead at times to an invasion of privacy. We were all pleased when the previous Government, after repeated calls, particularly from me, for some protection in this area agreed that the form of future questionnaires relating to household surveys were to be laid on the table some months before the documents were actually used on the public to enable honourable members in this chamber to look at the forms and ascertain whether an invasion of privacy would result from their use. 
Let me come back to the subject raised by the writer of the letter to the editor of the  Courier Mail  Advertisements are placed inviting people to become census collectors. They sign a form and take a pledge that they will not tell anybody about the information they have collected. A small percentage of these people- only one in 5000 is needed to constitute an invasion of privacy- are nothing but sticky beaks and nosey parkers. The only reason they are interested in becoming a collector is so they can knock on  Mrs Smith's  door and say: 'Righto, I want all this information'. As I said, there is probably only one of these people in every 5000. 1 believe that the Government and those conducting the census have a distinct obligation to ensure that the average individual is protected from the disclosure of private information. This can be achieved by doing exactly what the writer of the letter to the  Courier Mail  suggested. In other words collectors should operate outside the area where they live so that there is less likelihood of knowing the people on whom they call and knowing all about their business. 
I cite an incident that occurred in the suburb of Murarrie in my electorate. I am not saying that the collector concerned was a sticky beak or a nosey parker. A couple of people in that area rang me complaining that one of the locals had been appointed as a census collector and they resented, and I say rightfully so, that  Mrs Smith  was going to come into their home- I use the name  'Mrs Smith'  only for the purposes of explanation- and collect information. As a neighbour she would be provided with an opportunity of finding out all about their business. 
The writer of the letter to which I referred earlier is one of the enlightened constituents of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  I hope he does not mind my carrying this issue further in this chamber. Finally I hope that the Minister and officials responsible take note of this matter. I remember once going to a flat where one of those trusted census form collectors had stacks and stacks of forms he had collected on behalf of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. They were all around the lounge room. The collector was sharing the flat with another young person. Both of those people had a number of friends and visitors coming to that flat from time to time, and it would have been very easy for any of those visitors to have picked up some of the forms and started looking at the information, which was the private business of citizens of this country. I hope that when the 1976 census is taken the collectors are instructed, and instructed properly, that they have an obligation to protect John Citizen's right to privacy. They have to sign a declaration that they will not divulge the information collected but they also have an obligation to ensure that they are not careless in the handling of the information they have collected. 
Very briefly, I support the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and say merely that in the 10 years I have been here I have seen both systems, the old system of selfdetermination and the tribunal system, in operation. I have seen political overtones introduced into both systems, and I have seen both parties, in Government and in Opposition, use this matter for political purposes. If we are going to set 

 Mr Justice Campbell and his tribunal the task of ascertaining what is reasonable and fair, I sincerely hope that we do not make a mockery of them and ourselves by saying, if it is a sugarcoated finding, that we reject it and, if it is one covered with acid, saying that we welcome it and accept it. That would be a hypocritical act for the benefit of the public. Every time we have rejected an increase, the public says 'how wonderful' and for a whole year everyone marches around whingeing because they made this great sacrifice. Let us not degrade the principle of tribunals. If we have a tribunal to take this matter out of the political arena, let us stop playing politics. If the tribunal recommends a decrease, which it should for some honourable members, or an increase, we should accept its recommendation. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government has yet considered the question of tobacco and cigarette advertising on television and whether the Government intends to continue the previous Government 's policy in this regard. 
I direct my serious question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that when an Australian parliamentary delegation visited Bangladesh in 1974 and had discussions with the then President, the late Sheik Mujibur Rahman, he cited as that nation's greatest problem its incapacity to teach the people about birth control? Is the Prime Minister aware that many governments of impoverished countries openly admit that the lack of birth control is their greatest single problem? Is the Prime Minister aware that at approximately midnight last Sunday the world 's population reached 4000 million and that since then it has increased by another 498 562 and will soon reach a figure - 
We have listened to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  both of whom narrowly scraped home at the last Federal election, trying to present themselves as champions for the cause of the pensioners. The honourable member for Oxley accused the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  of being a member of the Sistine Chapel choir. I remind the honourable member for Oxley that Michelangelo painted and made things of beauty with a chisel for that chapel. The mess the honourable member for Oxley left behind as a result of his 12 months or so as Treasurer is responsible for half the problems we face today. 
I believe that if the Labor Party was fair dinkum about its concern over funeral benefits, in the 3 years that it was in power it would have increased the $40 benefit to a more realistic figure because of the inflation which took place during those 3 years. Every honourable member knows that today $40, whilst helpful towards the cost of a funeral, is of little value in comparison with its value in 1965 when the benefit was introduced. It is not as substantial a contribution as it once was. 
Let us consider the social services program. Last year, under the Labor Party, when people below the poverty level were receiving less than $2,000, it cost more than $8,000 to administer the program for every person below the poverty level. Pensioners or people needing assistance were getting $ 1 out of every $4 spent on the social welfare program. The system had become so top heavy and over-balanced that the right people were not getting the money. We provide $1.7m for the funeral benefit for pensioners but we end up spending a greater figure simply to administer the scheme. I do not stand here without sympathy or without feeling for people who have to rely on the pension. If any member of the Opposition were to so suggest, I would go so far as to risk being thrown out of this House as a result of using unparliamentary language by calling him a hypocrite, because it would not be true. 
We have reached the stage where there has to be a rationalisation. A few years ago the LiberalCountry Party Government introduced a program whereby on the death of a partner in a marriage the survivor was given 12 weekly payments, which today is the equivalent of $400, to assist that person to go through that period of grief without concern and to readjust to a different income. That happened about four or five years ago under the Liberal Government. The figure is now $400. I ask: If we have a scheme which is costing twice as much to administer as the benefit that we are giving, is it not time that we really had a look at it? I do not advocate the total withdrawal of the scheme because, regrettably, it is an emotional matter. Members of the Opposition could make great politics out of it, they could stir up people, and they could suggest that we were trying to put people in a pauper's grave. That is not the intention of this Government. 
Personally, I would like to see introduced a scheme whereby when a pensioner died a funeral director could make a claim on the Department, and the money could be paid directly to him. If we centralise and minimise the amount of paper work involved, it could reduce the administrative costs. Honourable members opposite sit there and wait for the consideration of clause 7 which deals with the funeral benefit. During this debate they have not referred to any other clauses. They are just waiting to beat the meat, to try to make as much political capital as they possibly can out of this subject. 
I know that honourable members on this side of the chamber have, in their own Party room, expressed concern at what has been done. They have expressed concern, because if we are going to take something away something must be given back. The members of the Labor Party have sat here for 3 months and have wallowed in the memory of Kerr- I must apologise, of the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr. They have stood up in this House every day trying to rip his wife's marriage or past marriage apart. They have been preoccupied with that matter. For the first time they have read the newspapers and have seen that Government supporters in their Party room were expressing a little bit of concern about this matter. So they say: 'Well, this must be a good subject to drag up in the House and try to recover our depleted stocks'. Well, shame on you. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member has made his point of order. I did not take action on 2 accounts. First of all, although there was a scream for a point of order from the Opposition side, in fact nobody rose. Secondly, the honourable member corrected himself, .very quickly, but I would nevertheless remind him that the correct title surely should be  His Excellency,  the Governor-General. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I did correct myself, as you have correctly pointed out. It is very good to see this division starting in the Opposition side, where one member on that side is prepared to stand up at long last and defend  His Excellency  the Governor-General. It has been a long time coming. In conclusion - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member will resume his seat. If he claims to have been misrepresented, he will have an opportunity to take up the matter of a personal explanation after the honourable member has concluded his speech. 
I did not realise that I had hit such a sensitive nerve in the side of the Opposition. I have said all that I wish to say. I conclude simply by saying that this side of the chamber is not just concerned with what happens after death. We are concerned with ensuring that the life of the pensioner will be made as happy and as pleasant as possible. It is necessary that this Government should get the country back on a sound economic footing and so destroy the inflation which has ripped away at every pension increase that honourable members opposite have given and lauded themselves for having given and which within a few months has been rendered useless. I am absolutely confident that future policies of the Liberal-National Country Party Government will ensure that the pensioners and people who have a greater income will have a far better life than they had under the Labor Party. When the people spoke on 13 December 1975 the voters just did not kick honourable members opposite out; they roared 'Out with Labor', so they did not think much of their performance. 
At the outset I should like to support publicly the introduction and the general concept of this new scheme. The proposals, which have the blessing of most of the Public Service unions, in the long term will cost the Australian public some $2,000m less than the scheme introduced last year by the Labor Party. The Australian public can only agree that it is a good scheme when it commands the agreement of most of the Public Service unions and public servants themselves and costs so much less. I should like to say further that I regard people who have access to generous superannuation schemes, and they are a minority of people, to be very lucky. Far too often people who get into a superannuation scheme think: 'I'm all right, Jack', and forget that the vast majority of Australians can look forward, particularly at the moment, to retirement pensions of only $38 to $40 a week. I believe that people who have access to a generous superannuation scheme have a special obligation in the area of productivity to give back to a nation, whether it be in the private sector or in the public sector. 
Public servants are in an even more privileged position. In the last couple of years we have seen an upturn in the number of unemployed in this country. Last December they reached some 360 000, and they came not from the public sector but the private sector. I am yet to meet walking down the street unemployed a public servant who had permanent status. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced some weeks ago that the size of the Public Service was to be diminished by 17 000 people he did not mean that suddenly there were to be mass sackings. He meant that with natural wastage and retirements induced by the finalisation of this superannuation scheme the Public Service could be diminished by 17 000 because these people would not be replaced. 
I simply leave the message that people with access to superannuation schemes, and particularly public servants, have a very privileged position compared with the vast majority of Australians. Schemes such as the one we are debating should not simply be taken greedily for granted and regarded as simply another perk. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  said that many private schemes could not be as generous as this one. Even though some people have the advantage of superannuation schemes, to my knowledge only a tiny fraction of these schemes would be as generous as that which covers the Public Service. 
I turn to another subject. I am amazed at the generosity of the Liberal Party in government when it comes to the Superannuation Bill. The honourable member for Higgins referred to the Superannuation Act 1922-1973. Section 46(1) stipulated if that the surviving spouse of a superannuitant remarried entitlement to a pension would disappear. I agree that in the 1970s it is appropriate that that provision be removed. I agree with the honourable member for Higgins that on some occasions this provision would have discouraged people from remarriage. We all remember that when the widow of a former Prime Minister- an earlier member for Higgins,  Mr Holt-  remarried that was the end of her entitlement to superannuation. This should not be so. What I fail to understand is why we have gone as far as we have gone, because it is unnecessary. I suggest that people should always be entitled to a fair go, but why go overboard and leave out a provision which would ensure that the generosity bestowed by the present Government is not purposely or accidentally taken advantage of at the expense of the public purse in the years to come? I referred before to section 46 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1973. Clause 111(1) in Division 5, under the heading 'miscellaneous' in the Superannuation Bill 1975 introduced by the Labor Government, provided:  . . . where the spouse of a deceased person, being a spouse who is entitled to spouse's pension, marries, or is deemed by section 112 to have married, after the death of the person, entitlement to spouse's pension ceases upon the marriage. 
That was a change from the original Act. We have left that provision out completely. This opens up possibilities. In these days of equality of the sexes I will not prejudge which partner to a marriage will die first, but the surviving partner of a superannuation contributor will receive a large percentage of the superannuation. That person can remarry- that is fair enough- and retain that pension entitlement. But I believe that it is unnecessary to give open slather. Under the present Bill a surviving partner who remarries could lose another spouse, remarry a second time and end up with 2 pensions. That same person might lose a third spouse and collect 3 pensions. With sufficient energy he or she might even collect another pension. The person concerned might selectively and carefully choose elderly public servants to marry and systematically set about ensuring an early demise. A person such as this could end up with six or seven pensions and an income higher than the salary of the nation's Prime Minister. I know that this is a little far fetched. Honourable members might say that this would not happen. It probably will not happen, but if it happens twice or thrice, and I do not rule that out, what right has the Government to allow a leak in the provisions of this new Bill that would create this drain on the public purse? 
I had intended referring to the cost of the new scheme. I had figures taken out on estimates of the cost over the next 10 years and then an estimate of the cost in 20 years' time. My attention was drawn to the fact that these figures could well be an over simplification of the new scheme as against the old scheme, so I will avoid further reference to that matter. I say only that those who provided me with the figures at least listed in some detail the assumptions which had to be made in costing the future of the scheme. They pointed out that it was very dangerous to predict too far ahead. 
I conclude where I began. Many people do not have access to superannuation schemes, particularly those as generous as this scheme. Recipients in future should always acknowledge that they are in a very privileged position and that the scheme is not simply funded by their own contribution. The contribution from the public purse in years to come will be over $ I billion annually, and that is not to be sneezed at. I have pleasure in supporting the implementation of this Bill. I ask the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to consider reintroducing a provision to eliminate the chance of a person being entitled to more than one pension by reason of having survived more than one spouse. 
After listening to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the previous Minister for Transport, the reasons for the development of the new Brisbane Airport being ground to a halt are obvious. Not only did the Coombs taskforce recommend against it, but the then Minister was in Cabinet putting every stumbling block possible to prevent the scheme. Before I refer to the report brought in today, I want to make reference to the previous Minister's shortsighted attitude towards Tullamarine. As a Queenslander I suppose I should say: 'Well, we should have got a better airport before Victoria'.  Mr Speaker,  I was in Melbourne, your home city, on Sunday evening, 2 1 March and as I came out through Tullamarine, I saw the 12 bays of the 
Ansett terminal completely used by aeroplanes. Eleven of the twelve bays of Trans Australia Airlines were packed. Tullamarine must surely be reaching a stage where it has to be expanded. Regrettably the previous Minister for Transport, the previous speaker, indicates a mind that is bogged down in the past and lacks the capacity to foresee growth and future use. 
I suggest that this report has been hidden by the previous speaker while he was Minister for Transport. I have not had an opportunity to examine it properly, but I looked at the cover a moment ago and it showed that it was printed in July 1975. 1 have not had the opportunity to see the contents of the report. 
-The point is that if the report became available last July the previous speaker had it suppressed for 5 months. This is only about the 6th or 7th sitting week of the new Parliament. I can only say that the people of Brisbane are lucky inasmuch as we had a change of Government because that report would never have been presented by the previous speaker. I recall on occasion after occasion in this House trying to extract from the then Minister some indication of when the report would be presented or printed. Obviously I was being given the turnaway because the report was ready about 8 months ago. 
Queensland's capital, Brisbane, has been subjected to a campaign of harrassment particularly by the previous Government. In 1973, the then Prime Minister, the now Leader of the Opposition,  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  set up a taskforce under  Dr Coombs  to review the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government which was the McMahon Government. Some 6 months later  Dr Coombs  suggested that a project that could be deferred to save the Labor Government money was the Brisbane airport. That was a major setback for Brisbane. When the Liberal Government went to the polls in 1972 it was committed to an immediate expenditure of $lm in 1973-74, $13m in 1974-75 and $18m in 1975-76. If we had continued in power after 1972 $32m would have been spent already. Following this year a total of $130m would have been spent to complete the project. 
It is obvious from the verbiage of the honourable member for Newcastle that the Australian Labor Party is totally against Brisbane getting a new airport. This is in rather stark contrast to the bleatings- that is all they can be described ascoming from the State Labor Leader of the Opposition in Queensland, who the other day promised to make the new airport an issue in the forthcoming by-election for the seat of Clayfield. What an ironical comment when we learn from the presentation of this report and from what the honourable member for Newcastle said a few minutes ago that the Labor Government was totally against the new airport. He accused the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who I see is distressed by the outburst of the honourable member for Newcastle, of simply being political in his efforts to acquire this airport. I think it is a very sad indictment of the Newcastle prejudice which flows through the body of the honourable member. One only has to walk through the shipyards in Brisbane to find out what people think about the honourable member for Newcastle and his prejudice towards Newcastle. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson),  the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)-  all the Brisbane members- are concerned about the new Brisbane airport, as were their Labor predecessors. 
I look forward to an opportunity to study this report. I noticed from glancing at it a few minutes ago that there is some suggestion that the project can be completed for $38m less than what was proposed in 1971-72. The honourable member for Newcastle talked simply about an economic evaluation. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to dealing with people and the quality of their life there must be considerations other than economic considerations. I am not saying that political considerations should control the final decision. But as I have said in this House so often, the lives of people in the electorates of the honourable members I mentioned a few minutes ago are affected by aircraft noise. It is all right for the honourable member for Newcastle, who travels home to Newcastle in a oneengine tiger moth as old fashioned as his own approach to life, to disregard the impact on the lives of people made by the noise of modern jets. The quality of life is also a consideration. 
I trust that the Queensland Ministers- the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the Minister for Defence  (Mr 
Killen) and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)-  as well as the Minister for Transport will recognise along with our National Country Party colleagues that this is a must and that all Queensland is for real in its wish to see a new realigned airport for Brisbane, a better quality of life and some prestige in the capital of the sunshine State, which presents a better way of life than almost everywhere else in this country. I hope that the Minister for Transport will tell us that he will disregard what the honourable member for Newcastle said and that those sections of the report which militate against Queensland will be disregarded in Cabinet. I hope that he will take a pro-Queensland, pro-Brisbane and a pro-people approach. 
-Has the Treasurer noticed recent comments expressing concern about the 1976 census? Does the Treasurer agree that this is an example of people- for example,  Mr Justice  Kirby- getting on the Cameron privacy waggon which has been rolling since I arrived as a member of this House in 1966? I say this with modesty. Will the Treasurer assure the House that, while agreeing with my continuing contention that many of the questions asked are still an invasion of privacy, the Statistician has taken steps, in view of my well-founded criticisms, to ensure that the degree of confidentiality is higher than ever before? 
The objective of this Bill is to ensure that all beds funded under the Aged Persons Hostels Act are hostel type beds catering specifically for the frail aged and those in greatest need of accommodation because of advanced age and limited financial resources. The Bill was introduced by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  a Liberal Government initiative, in 1972. It was intended that by encouraging additional hostel accommodation there would be a lessening of the pressure for admisssion to nursing homes by people who had no real need for nursing care. One could almost describe hostel accommodation as a halfway house between the nursing home and the accommodation provided by various organisations under the Aged Persons Homes Act. 
Under the Aged Persons Hostels Act the Commonwealth Government meets the capital cost of providing hostel type accommodation for 2 additional aged persons for every one accommodated in an unsubsidised home, or one additional person for every two in an existing home subsidised on a dollar for dollar basis prior to 1957. The honourable member for Mackellar in his then capacity as Minister for Social Services devised a scheme whereby those people who had pioneered the concept of providing accommodation for the aged at full cost- many elements of the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican Church and Masonic organisations had done just this- were recognised many years later and offered a grant to construct more accommodation at those premises or alternatively in some other place. 
Since that time some 154 grants have been made to the tune of $64m. All in all, some 5700 aged persons have been given accommodation because of the initiative displayed by the honourable member for Mackellar, who I believe in those days had to lead a fairly fierce campaign to have this concept accepted. But it was accepted and it was a step forward in the care of our aged. 
Earlier this evening the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  whom I am pleased to see has returned to the House to hear my speech, chose not to hear my comments when I interjected during his reference to nursing homes. All members on this side of the House, and indeed all members of the public, will recall the hangups of the honourable member for Oxley about private enterprise in the field of care for the aged. We can remember the claims in relation to the old key system for the aged Persons Homes Act. We can recall also his relentless pursuit of all of those privately owned nursing homes. The honourable member, when he was Minister for Social Security, had the idea that they should all be closed down and put into the hands of charitable organisations. He believed that as a result the rip-offs would stop and the aged would be taken care of. 
Those of us who have observed the reaction to the performance of the previous Minister for Social Security will know that Labor has left us with a legacy of a huge shortage of nursing home beds. In every State of Australia there is a shortage of beds as a direct result of the Australian 
Labor Party's policy in this regard. Every member in this Parliament, whether he be Labor or Liberal, can tell stories of people ringing up and pleading with their local federal member to give them assistance to get an aged mother, father or some other close relative into a nursing home. This difficulty in obtaining admission was a direct legacy of the Labor Party's administration. My support for this proposal to extend to the various charitable organisations.  (Quorum formed)  That performance was like the performances when the delegations from the education people were here last Thursday and the Labor Party called for 11 quorums and continually disrupted the discussions that members of this House were trying to have with parents and teachers. I return to the subject of the Aged Persons Hostels Bill. One of the difficulties encountered in recent times resulted from the fact that the Labor Government virtually ran out of money for those groups who wanted to construct hostels. This in itself had the effect of causing many people or many organisations in desperation to postpone or even to cancel their proposal to construct hostels. 
I welcome this Bill because it gives an extension and a further opportunity to those charitable organisations which qualify for this allotment or allowance to get on with the job. I congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Government on this initiative. I refer once again to the treatment of the private nursing homes by the Minister for Social Security in the Labor Government,  Mr Hayden,  when, in effect, his actions virtually closed the doors of many nursing homes. Those people to whom he referred earlier who were being dragged out on the footpath were not being dragged out simply for the television cameras but because they were told they would have to find alternative accommodation because business had reached the stage at which the nursing home could no longer continue. I regret greatly that my contribution must conclude now to allow the Minister to wrap up the Bill. There are so many comments of note that could have been made and so many colleagues on this side of the House who wanted to speak. No doubt that will be left to another day. 
I ask the Attorney-General whether New South Wales is the only State in Australia where litigation can be taken up on behalf of a deceased person in the event of that person having been libelled and whether Queensland or some other State would be an appropriate place in which to slander a deceased person deliberately? 
-The Liberal - 
The postal and telecommunications policy of the Liberal Party and National Country Party of Australia - 
This is part  2.  The private courier users are, because of fear, terminating contracts and reluctantly agreeing to become users of Australian Post.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I table this document? It is a reasonable speech. 
Opposition members- No. 
I have reliable evidence that certain businessmen have been told that they will be fined $1,000 for every letter they send via a private courier. I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  what other business enterprise in Australia can secure business by saying: 'If you continue to use our competitors we will smash you financially1? The Alphonse Capone style of big business in the nation's biggest business exists in Australia. I am also reliably informed that Australian Post drivers have been instructed to watch and report the activities of private couriers. 
-On a recent evening in this chamber, namely the evening of 5 May, I attempted to make a speech in relation to the activities of Australia Post. Regretfully that night the Opposition was involved in a frivolous exercise and I was subjected to frequent interruptions. That night I made 2 attempts, the record of which ranges from page 1978 to page 1983  of Hansard,  to complete that speech. I know that we have only 5 minutes in which to speak on the adjournment, and it is very rare for a 5-minute speech to be spread over 5 pages of  Hansard,  but that was in accord with the tone of that evening. So tonight I should like to start stage 3 of my episode. I do not have very much more to say, but I wish to refresh the minds of honourable members on the last words I said that night before I was interrupted by the clock- and I shall say that this must all be considered in conjunction with what I said as recorded on those pages I mentioned. I said: 
I am also reliably informed that Australian Post drivers have been instructed to watch and report the activities of private couriers. 
Here starts stage 3. The Commission is making its drivers become travelling spies and pimps on private enterprise. Big Jim Kennedy, the refrigerator and tourist island king, who heads the Commission, I am sure never used these methods to build his big empire. He commands respect because he did it the legitimate way. I appeal to him to intervene. Section 85 of the Act presently gives the Commission wide powers to stamp upon any emerging competitor. That section should be repealed or changed. At present there are approximately 3500 owner-drivers and 570 employees engaged in the courier industry. It is estimated their turnover for the financial year ending 1975 was $73m. The rate they are going, this year that figure will reach $100m. If these couriers survive the onslaught in 1976 they will carry 50 million articles. With 35 000 clients using the service it is obvious that Australia was in dire need of an alternative carrying service. In Brisbane alone approximately 70 vehicles are in operation servicing banks, private companies, law firms and a host of other companies and industries. I am told that Australia Post is saying that all a business house needs to do is to say what it is prepared to pay for a courier service. I notice the intense interest of the shadow Minister at the table, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who was at one time a Postmaster-General and who was responsible for setting up this Commission. Australia Post is prepared to ask the firms what they will pay for the service and will provide it at that rate. 
I suppose if an operation is getting away with charging 18c to deliver a lousy letter that provides the kind of money to allow it to indulge in unfair business tactics. 
In the minute I have left I repeat the policy of the Liberal-National Country Parties, as enunciated prior to the last election, in relation to the private courier service, and to draw to the attention of the House the fact that we are contravening our own promise in allowing this to continue. We said: 
The Liberal and National Country Party accepts the development of private courier services and will not seek to curtail them. Such services meet a growing community demand, albeit at great cost, and also provide competition for the Post Office. 
I do hope that people read my speeches on this subject, which almost constitutes a Blue Hills serial and continue over 2 editions of  Hansard,  and that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will step in as a Liberal and invoke the views which members on this side of the House possess, that is, that the private courier should be given a go. The only reason he has emerged in recent years was that the Post Office, as it then was, could not come up with a reliable service. I repeat what I said when I last raised this matter although Australia Post is going through a comparatively better period its past performance is such that nobody can rely on improved performances being continued in the future. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has the Minister seen reports that approximately 15 000 illegal migrants entered Australia during those months when 8500 illegal migrants surrendered under the amnesty arrangements? Are these figures exaggerated, or is Australia the easiest country in the world to enter illegally and a country that could be placed at risk because of obvious health dangers? Is it correct that the present round-up system of illegal residents allows the apprehended holder of an expired visitor's visa once again to disappear back into the community? Now that the amnesty is over, will the Minister continue to review the visa system and assure the House that people found entering this country illegally can no longer expect leniency but rather instant deportation as a general rule? 
Having listened to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  it is obvious that the old Medibank health system is a complete failure. He has failed to come to grips with the pertinent facts in relation to this legislation. It is apt to remind my friend that over 1 7 members of his own Party in the House of Representatives decided to retain membership in the private health funds. There are only about 36 in this place now so it is safe to say that almost 50 per cent of Labor's representatives in this place have retained private health insurance membership, and the honourable member for Hindmarsh is one of them. All the talk he goes on with about the rich being given the break at the expense of the poor is nothing but piffle. The facts are that the Australian Labor Party originally proposed a health insurance levy of 1.35 per cent on income. Like our scheme which has an upper contributory limit, so too the Labor Party's scheme had an upper limit on how much a taxpayer would contribute. So much for the argument of the honourable member for Hindmarsh that we are devising a scheme to protect the rich. 
It is apt to remind the honourable member for Hindmarsh that a person who is earning $500 a week should pay the same weekly contribution as somebody earning $150 a week or $200 a week because the person on $500 a week is paying straight out in taxation to the Federal coffers about 62l/2C of all dollars earned. So if honourable members opposite want the equalisation of contributions and want the rich to contribute to the provision of services for the less fortunate in our society, that system is already inbuilt. The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  as well as paying, say, $18,000 tax on a $30,000 income, should pay another $900 towards Medibank or to a private health fund. 
-You are saying he should? 
-You do not think $ 1 8,000 is enough? 
-At least we understand the honourable member for Hindmarsh. It shows the truth of what I said about the old health scheme being a total failure. 
I think the debate on this Bill is the appropriate place in which to raise the problem of those persons who left their old private health fund following the introduction of Medibank. Many of these people had been members of the private health funds for a number of years. During their membership of those funds many developed chronic illnesses which made them a burden on the private health funds. However, because of their long membership they were protected. Following the advent of Medibank many of these people severed their connection with the private health funds. Now many will be in the position that it will be cheaper for them to opt out of Medibank and to rejoin those private health funds. I hope that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is listening to what I am saying while conversing with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
Well, the Minister could be a lot worse off; at least he can trust them. I was saying that I hope there will be provisions to protect people who have developed chronic illnesses. I hope they will get protection when they rejoin the private health funds and that the funds will not simply be able to say: 'Look, you left us 18 months ago and we are no longer going to provide cover for that chronic illness'. I notice that the Minister is taking notes. He probably will answer this point when he gets the opportunity to speak. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  made 2 vicious attacks, one on my friend and colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and one upon me. He asked what would happen when the honourable member for the Northern Territory knocked on the pearly gates and was asked to account for what he had done during his stay on this earth. A more immediate question which comes to my mind is what happened when the honourable member, a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, knocked on the door of Gough Whitlam, the then Prime Minister, and was asked to explain the way he had been running his Department because the Prime Minister then sacked him from his portfolio and brought him back to the Australian Capital Territory so that he could keep an eye on him as he was a dull failure in his previous portfolio. 
I am told that prior to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  entering Parliament, he was a marriage counsellor in the Hunter Valley. I am told also that the history of marriage in that part of Australia would indicate that his counselling was frequently wide of the mark. The honourable member presented himself as an ex-marriage counsellor and a lay man. I speak as one of the few in this Parliament who have not entered into the state of matrimony. That does not really make me any wiser than the rest. But it is obvious that when the Family Law Bill was enacted in the Parliament about a year ago, contrary to the suggestion of the previous  speaker,  it required the support of honourable members on both sides of the House. There are members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party who voted for the enactment of the Family Law Bill, as did members of the Australian Labor Party. It is just as correct to say that members of the ALP fought vigorously against the enactment of the Family Law BUI as did members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party at that time. So there is little point in the honourable member for Hunter claiming praise for the changes in family law legislation which have come about in recent times. 
The Matrimonial Causes Act of 1 959 preceded the Marriage Act of 1961. The Family Law Act of last year precedes this BUI, the Marriage Amendment BUI. I compliment the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  for introducing this Bill during the closing stages of the last session to enable members of the Parliament to go out into their electorates to ascertain the views of the population in relation to the amendments which it proposes. I know that many honourable members on this side of the House, including the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml)  and myself, wrote to people in our electorates, mainly to the clergy, to see how they felt about the changes that were being proposed by the AttorneyGeneral. I am pleased to say that in the vast majority of cases the reaction has been most favourable. The previous  speaker  laboured the point about what happens to the young couple when the woman has fallen pregnant and they have to wait a month to be married. That very argument and the point raised by the honourable member underlines the fact that he did not fully understand the Bill. It is a pity that the honourable member for Hunter is not listening because he is about to learn. The Bill contains a provision that if a couple wish to marry in a shorter time than one month they can apply to a Registrar of Marriage and the Registrar of Marriage can allow that couple to marry that day, the next day or anytime later. 
-Well, get your hands out of your ears because you have not been hearing much for a long, long time, my friend. You will not learn very much if you sit in this place and listen to the honourable member for Hunter as a mentor and an assistant. The previous  speaker  indulged in a lot of trifle about the month's wait. He spoke about the tragedy and turmoil which would fall upon the hearts and shoulders of the couple he dragged up from 1962. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  on his insistence in these tough economic times that the amount of money set aside for marriage counselling should be increased from the Australian Labor Party's allocation of $ 1.6m to $1.9m. Guess which parties introduced this initiative in the 1960s? They were the Liberal and National Country parties. We have kept pace. 
-Look, my friend, you asked me what happens to the free vote. The Liberal Party is of one accord on this subject. We all think exactly alike. We believe that this is a vital and necessary measure. Whilst we in the Liberal Party are allowed to exercise a free vote this is one of those measures on which we stand as one in supporting the Attorney-General. 
In conclusion I would like to make a couple of quick suggestions to the Attorney-General. I do so as a result of suggestions I have received from people in my electorate to whom I have written asking opinions. It is not proper for me to name in this place the individuals who responded. However, there is one suggestion which should be taken into account. I received a letter dated 1 7 August on my desk today from a Queensland gentleman. The letter refers to sub-section 13 ( 1) (c) which concerns the giving of a document to a couple outlining the obligations and consequence of marriage and availability of premarital education. This person suggests that when this document is drawn up by a committee the Christian churches should also have representation. My friends on the other side of the House should not become too excited. The person who wrote the letter is not suggesting a domination by the Christian churches. He is simply suggesting that there should be representation. I do not believe that this is an unreasonable suggestion when we consider that so many of the marriages of this country are conducted within the Christian churches. This person, like many of those others who have written to all honourable members, suggests that couples should be engaged for a period of at least one year before they are allowed to marry. With great respect, I re ject that type of suggestion. 
Whilst the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  went totally the other way he was partially correct when he suggested that many people who decide to marry will marry come what may regardless of a requested waiting period. 
-Not having entered upon the glorious state I do not know of what the honourable member speaks, I will contemplate it at my leisure. 
I agree with the honourable member. This is a very serious debate and I regret that some of my colleagues on the other side of the House have injected a degree of frivolity into the subject. I congratulate the Minister particularly on removing the provisions relating to breach of promise. How pitiful it was when the jilted male or the jilted female set out to seek some financial redress because a prospective partner had decided not to go ahead with a marriage. That provision was something belonging to the 18th century and the 19th century. That the Minister has decided to remove it from our statute book is indeed a grand tiling. I congratulate the Minister and trust that, even though he has had a questionable history in the area of law reform, divorce, marriage and so on, this new display of vision will continue in all areas. 
The Brisbane  Courier Mail  reported in the last few days a claim by a learned Queensland University Reader in Pathology,  Dr K.  Donald, the fact that 10 per cent of death certificates listed the wrong cause of death. To many people this may just be an interesting fact. However it concerns me because many widows of war veterans have claimed that their husbands have died as a result of war caused injuries but when they have appealed to the Repatriation Board, later the Repatriation Commission and then the Entitlement Appeals Tribunal in each and every case the Board, the Commission and the Tribunal has alluded to the cause of death as listed on the death certificate and has ruled out the widow's claim to be treated as a war widow. If there is a 10 per cent error as claimed by  Dr Donald,  the Reader in Pathology at the Queensland University, surely it would be far better for the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator 
Durack) to direct the Board, the Commission or the Tribunal to refer to autopsy reports, when autopsies were conducted, rather than regard the death certificate as the document to determine eligibility. 
Many might say that 10 per cent is a small percentage. I am not one who subscribes to the belief that just because a man served his country his widow, upon his death, should automatically become entitled to a host of benefits, but I do believe strongly that if a man's life span is curtailed as a result of war service his widow or the children who are left behind are entitled to every advantage, every benefit and every protection. As far as I am concerned, if a 10 per cent error is possible surely the Minister for Repatriation should issue instructions that this error component be taken into account when deciding eligibility. 

 Mr SULLIVAN (Riverina)' (10.59)- I draw the attention of honourable members to a program to be shown on television by the Australian Broadcasting Commission tomorrow evening. I think it is called  Alvin Purple.  I would not like to pre-judge this program but I ask honourable members to watch it tomorrow evening in order to form an opinion so that next week, if the program is offensive, we can debate the matter in this House and if necessary launch a very serious attack upon the ABC. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Further to the information supplied in answer to my question No. 5434  (Hansard,  31 May 1972, page 3423) relating 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health whom I assume subscribes to the belief that free enterprise should be allowed to flourish within the bounds of honest business practice. Will the Minister assure the House that where private health funds are more efficient and offer lower rates than Medibank, they will not be persecuted because they are doing what free enterprise is all about? 
In following the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  in this debate I do not want to spend too much time talking about yesterday because it is my view that the vast majority of Australians are more interested in what is going to happen tomorrow. There is no escaping the fact that when the Liberal-National Country Party Government came to power half-way through December it took over a depressed nation- a nation that was suffering from its highest inflation and unemployment rate since the Great Depression of over 40 years ago. In that situation we on this side took over the management and the reins of government. 
This year's Budget outlay is in excess of $24,000m, an increase of 1 1.3 per cent on that for the previous year when we had the one and only Hayden Budget. The year before that government expenditure had rocketed by some 23 per cent. That 23 per cent rocket was but half the rocket of the previous year. There were so many Labor Treasurers over the last 3 years that it is hard to recall them. Either the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  or the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was Treasurer when government expenditure in the 1974-75 Budget was increased by some 46 per cent. The key point is that the Labor Government was spending madly and spending badly. 
At the time of the 1975-76 Budget the Labor Government recognised that it was on a disaster course and it halved the growth rate of expenditure when compared with that for the previous year. This Government, because of the situation which still exists, was forced to cut that growth rate again by half. When we consider what this Government has done, such as the indexation of direct taxes, I believe that the first Fraser Government, and its Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  have achieved a remarkable result. When people outside this place say to me: 'When are you going to do something about cutting taxation?', I understand what they are saying and I sympathise with them. Regrettably, people frequently forget what has been done. They reach out simply for what is going to be done, without acknowledging or perhaps realising that the introduction of indexation of taxation, which was promised by the Government when in Opposition, was something that we promised to do over a period of 3 years. But recognising that incentive in this country was being destroyed by high taxation, we introduced indexation in one sweep. By the introduction of that indexation the Government is losing $ 1,200m in income, or- put in another way, a more pleasing waythe Australian taxpayers are gaining $ 1,200m because they are not being taxed as highly as they would have been if the Labor Government had still been in power. 
This makes even more amazing the fact that the present Government, a government which is portrayed by its opponents as having been heartless, has managed to increase expenditure in the field of social welfare from the previous Labor Government expenditure of $5,000m to more than $6,000m. That means that this so-called heartless Liberal Government, in times of great economic difficulty, has through good management been able to increase the expenditure in the field of social welfare by some 25 per cent to over $6,000m. I think it is appropriate to remind all working Australians that today more than 1.5 million Australians are on the pension. That is a lot of people to be reliant upon a work force which is not very much more than 4.5 million. Pensioners or people reliant on social security or welfare payments equal almost one-third of the work force. I believe it is a mighty effort for those who are fortunate enough or young enough to continue to play a role in the work force to support such a large number of people who are reliant on the Government for subsistence. 
I wish to speak tonight mainly on the subject of the Fraser Government or the LiberalNational Party approach to centralism and federalism. The Labor Party had a policy of centralism. The Liberals promised an alternative of true federalism. During the reign of the previous Government I, as a Federal member, became involved in such things as where zebra crossings or street lights were to be placed in my electorate. All Federal members spend half of the year in Canberra. Each represents about 60 000 constituents. I know that in my electorate of Griffith in Brisbane there are some 1200 streets. There would be 6000 to 7000 crossings or intersections. The Labor Government philosophy in relation to centralism meant that Federal members were supposed to tell State politicians and local aldermen in the lower levels of government exactly where these facilities should be placed. That was centralism. 
-Garbage disposal and dog licensing too, as I am reminded by the honourable member for Calare. We were supposed to be looking at so many things when the big issues were running riot. At the Premiers Conference held in February 1976 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
There are some programs- or parts of programs- which represent areas of expenditure which clearly deserve continuing Commonwealth support but in which there is no obvious need that my Government can see for the Commonwealth to be involved in a specific way. These are matters in respect of which priorities should appropriately be left to the States and their authorities to determine. 
In relation to local government he said: 
The same principle of absorption could apply in the local government area. Again we would welcome the Premiers' views on the scope of absorption of specific purpose assistance into the general revenue assistance to be provided for local government. 
The nub of all that was that it was time this Government looked at what it was doing to enable the State Governments and local governments to take back some of their responsibilities. The question of transfer of responsibility for particular programs was examined in detail by the Administrative Review Committee headed by  Sir Henry  Bland. However, although that report is in the hands of members of the Cabinet, regrettably it is not in the hands of us here in the back benches, nor is it available to the public. I hope that it will not be too long before it becomes generally available. But because it is still largely under review, it is impossible to provide a list of those areas in which financial responsibilities are likely to be transferred to the States. Therefore I have to indulge in projection, which is always dangerous at the best of times. 
When we look at possible shifts in responsibility, we see the strong possibility that in the urban and regional development area, in areas such as growth centres, area improvement programs, land acquisition and development in urban areas and national sewerage programs, the Government will be handing a lot of this back to the States- and it is appropriate that it should do so. The Budget recently introduced shows a trend to cut expenditure in many of these areas. 
For instance, in the growth centres, Commonwealth involvement has fallen from $60m to $19m; in the area improvement program from $ 15m to just over $500,000; in land acquisition from $53m to $15m; and in national sewerage programs from $113m to $50m. This does not mean that the Liberals believe that these things are not important, but what the Liberals do believe is that there are levels of government which are more properly equipped and which have better local knowledge, so that they are more able to look after these projects. In the field of social welfare it has already been announced that we would fund the Australian Assistance Plan for another 12 months and that it would then be handed over to the States for them to decide the future and for them to fund it. 
Of course, employment grants have been looked at again, as has the Regional Employment Development scheme, but we all recall that that was something that the Labor Government in the closing stages of 1975 could not get rid of quickly enough.  lit  was a red-hot potato; that is what the RED scheme was all about. Labor was in the process of dramatically dismantling the RED scheme when it- fortunately, for Australia's sake- was pushed from office. In the field of education, the present Government has stated that it will provide greater State representation on the Schools Commission; greater responsibility both in terms of funding and administration may be transferred to the States in the area of education, particularly in relation to schools. 
Every time we mention education we find 100 000 teachers throughout the country going into a mad spin saying: 'Spend more, more, more; do what Labor did'. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you are a Labor politician, and you would know the truth of what I am about to say. What the Whitlam Government did was withhold money that the McMahon and Gorton government had been giving to the States for education, and say: 'No, you are not having that any more. We are keeping it; we are going to spend it'. Then they said: 'Look what great fellows we are. We have increased expenditure on education from a few million dollars to well into the hundreds of millions of dollars '. That was not fair play. To those who may be concerned about educational expenditure let me say that the sum set aside in this Budget for the forthcoming year is in excess of $2, 000m. That is a far cry from a government supposedly not interested in education. 
In the remaining minutes I want to refer to the way in which people dislike centralism. The Australian Labor Party Government was kicked out of office because of its indulgence, its whims and its wishes to get hold of every string of authority in this country, to set it up here in Canberra and to tell the people of Australia that it knew what was best. I too dislike centralism. We saw the amusing spectacle yesterday of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  standing up here and saying that he was not a centralist. The people of Australia expect the States to accept their full responsibility. There is little mileage in the long term in the States continuing to wring out their handkerchiefs and again place them upon their eyes to wipe away the crocodile tears, saying: 'The Commonwealth is not giving us a fair go'. The formulas which have been struck by the present Government are more generous to the States than those of any previous government. 
When we look at the State Budgets we see that Tasmania, in these difficult times, has a surplus of over $4m from the previous year and it still has a credit of over $ 1 7m in its own loan fund. Its overall spending in this financial year will go up by 2 1 . 1 per cent, which is almost twice the rate of increase in expenditure by the Federal Government. Its capital spending will be increased by 2 1 per cent. When we look at the Budgets for Tasmania, South Australia and Victoria- the 3 States which have produced Budgets to date- we see that there has been no increase in indirect taxes. In fact each State has reduced its taxes in some area. In these times of need for expanded expenditure, if the States were receiving such a raw deal from the Federal Government I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how they could possibly be reducing their indirect tax if things were as tough as some of them would have us believe. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That depends on which State you come from. 
It is unusual for a  Deputy Speaker  to intervene in a speech. The Victorian Government granted probate, payroll tax and land tax concessions. The Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Neilson,  described his Budget as 'the best State Budget in 30 years'. South Australia, the State which is governed by  Mr Dunstan  and his Australian Labor Party, is also clearly in a favourable position. It started 1976-77 with a large credit balance on revenue account and has budgeted to retain this balance at the end of this financial year. There are real increases in both recurrent and capital expenditure, especially taking into account large sums$55m that  Mr Dunstan  set aside last June to be available this year. To quote that Labor Premier, 'South Australia has entered 1976-77 in a better financial position than any other State '. 
I could go on but I have only a few minutes left, and that is unfortunate. I am reminded that in my own State of Queensland the Premier has slashed death duties and has made Queensland the place in which to live- at a cost of $20m to $30m. He has promised that payroll tax will be cut  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, has promised the people of New South Wales that he will reduce transport costs by 20 per cent. This is the situation throughout Australia. The States appear to have never had it so good. The Commonwealth is pulling in the reins, yet every time the States are handed some of the responsibility for which they have craved over the last two or three years and for which they condemned the previous Government for not handing over they throw up their arms and say: 'How can we possibly afford to finance these extra schemes which you have thrust at our feet?' 
Time does not permit me in this debate to give the figures on how Fraser federalism has shifted a far greater percentage of the nations revenue to State responsibility than ever before. My Government improved the formula that the State Premiers presented earlier this year. I think my Government gave them something like another $93m. They have the wherewithal. They have been given back responsibility. My advice to the various State governments is to get on with the job and act responsibly, because everyone has to adopt a responsible attitude in order to get this nation back on its feet. Let us all stop playing politics for the sake of this country which is still reeling from 3 years of Labor administration but which has the capacity to get on its feet if it is given the chance. 
Very briefly, we notice following the announcement tonight by  Mr Hawke  that he is not intending to tun for Parliament that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  seems to be looking for a reviver and seeking relief. and my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  seems to have been sitting in this place all night, offering thanksgiving as if some great relief has come upon him. Regrettably I would say that I am against the Opposition's amendments. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -There is no substance to the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! No point of order arises. I call the honourable member for Griffith. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I am almost loath to continue my contribution, but I know that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who is sitting at the table particularly wants to hear what I have to say very briefly in opposing these amendments. I regret very much that we even have a thing called Medibank in this country. It was thrust upon us by the previous Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I recall what happened very clearly. It does not matter what you call it, Medibank is a curse. I say this after great thought. I reflect upon what we all had to pay for our health care up to 30 months ago. Because of the imposition of  Mr Hayden  's health plan, every Australian has been forced to pay far more than he has ever had to pay before for health care. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The point of order is upheld. It is the usual custom. I call the honourable member for Griffith. 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  I did contravene the Standing Orders and I apologise for doing so. I return to this business of a name. Regrettably, we have Medibank, or whatever we want to call it- be it hospital, supplementary or anything else- with us. The whole point is that it will cost this nation far more than it ever used to cost in the old days for health care services. It will cost far more to service the needs of about another 5 per cent or 6 per cent of the people who did not join the health care schemes which were available in previous years. The honourable member for Oxley has saddled this nation with an albatross which will drag us down in the years ahead. It is regrettable that we are in a situation in which we had to promise to keep the scheme going. The Liberal Party is a party of honour. We will keep the scheme going. But so far as I am concerned, I do not care what name is applied to Medibank; anything proposed in relation to medical care by the ALP must be bad. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. I ask: Has the Minister seen a newspaper article in which  Mr Hinze,  the Minister for Local Government and Main Roads in Queensland, blamed the level of Federal funds received by the Queensland Government for making it impossible for it to go ahead at this time with the construction of the proposed Gateway Bridge at the mouth of the Brisbane River? Has the Queensland Government in fact made a submission, or sought assistance from the Commonwealth Government, concerning the building of the Gateway Bridge or is this but another example of that Minister's ever-increasing capacity to take a swing at the Commonwealth and its Minister every time he seeks a scapegoat as a cover for what may be in fact his own shortcomings? Is the Minister for Transport's patience on the ebb? 
We have listened to a diatribe from the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who, I believe, for political reasons is trying to drag a red herring once again in front of all pensioners to confuse them about Medibank. In referring to the proposal of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
For example, people whose only income is the age pension are not called on to pay levy. As already indicated, however, levy relief for pensioners is to go further than that. Pensioners who have an entitlement to pensioner health benefits will, like people covered by repatriation and defence force arrangements, be freed from the levy. Age pensioners entitled to pensioner fringe benefits, as well as repatriation beneficiaries and Service personnel, will thus continue to receive the special consideration that has long been extended to them in the field of health care. 
So much for the speech of the honourable member for Hughes and so much for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. I believe that we should leave this chamber tonight indebted to the former Prime Minister  (Mr William McMahon)  for his great contribution, thus enlightening the Committee. He told honourable members just how much the whole scheme will cost. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  reminded the Committee this evening that last night I said that I was a continuing opponent of the whole concept of Medibank. He fled England only a few months ago to find a safe seat in Australia. Had he thought so highly of the English health scheme he would have been there still. I recall that last year when he was in England articles appeared in the Australian newspapers stating that the English health scheme was staggering and in dire need of the injection of some  2,000m to save it. As the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  said the other day; 'You cannot blame the son for the sins of the father'. But the honourable member for Grayndler entered this debate to advocate the scheme from which he fled in England. In today's Press we saw another article headed 'France's Medibank staggers'. The article stated: 
France's equivalent of Medibank is so seriously in the red that it expects a staggering $ 1 ,800m deficit next year. 
We are discussing the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1976 and it is appropriate that we talk about levies. The English scheme, the French scheme, the Canadian scheme and so many other sick schemes throughout the world have failed because they relied upon some form of levy. This Government has set about trying to preserve that which it regrettably- I emphasise the word 'regrettably'- inherited and making it better. So highly did Labor politicians think of the Australian Labor Party's national health scheme that seventeen out of the 36 members of the ALP who remained as members in this place after the election continued also as members of private health funds. Even  Dr Hawke  or  Mr Hawke-  whatever he might be called - 
-The honourable member suggests  Dr Chicken.  I do not want to indulge in frivolous discussion. This is a very serious matter. Even  Mr Hawke  continued to remain as a member of a private health fund because he regarded the Labor Party's health scheme as totally unacceptable. Unfortunately - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  Would the honourable member please try to tie his remarks to the Bill we are discussing. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I will be coming around to that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member might not be coming around to doing that for much longer if he continues to speak in this way. 
-While I recognise that the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill is good in itself, it is sometimes unfortunate that the Liberals have a capacity to do things better than the Labor Government. This means that Medibank will continue to live. I do not profess to speak on behalf of anyone else, but my personal view is that I could not care what happens to Medibank. Let us look at the health costs. Prior to the introduction of the Hayden health plan, the average Australian was receiving health care so much more cheaply than is the case today.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I am talking about this levy and particularly about clause 7 of the Bill. The average Australian family was paying only $3 or $4 a week at the very most for the maximum form of health care. In 30 months, this cost has increased by two to two and a half times in order to secure exactly the same cover. Despite the fact that the honourable member for Grayndler rattled off figures to try to substantiate bis claim that Medibank was better, I would say that it is infinitely more costly to preserve this scheme. 
An amazing contribution was made on behalf of the Australian Labor Party tonight by the honourable member for Grayndler. He had a shot at a doctor who was convicted on certain charges. I do not condone for one moment those people who live on the periphery of crime and by confidence tricks. But the honourable member referred to the fact that the Liberal Government had prosecuted only one medico. I can remember what happened in one case. I may be talking about the same case as the honourable member. Was he referring to the doctor who was alleged to have earned $500,000? 
-This may be a second case. I read about an Adelaide doctor who allegedly earned approximately $300,000 to $400,000 legally and had ripped off Medibank- this was all from the levy- to the extent of another $ 100,000. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I must say that the honourable member is not talking to a clause in Committee. I have the feeling that I am being set up for a confidence trick. 

 -No, Sir. 

The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-The honourable member will deal with the subject matter of the Bill or I will be forced to ask him to resume his seat. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, we are taking this Bill as a whole in Committee and I am trying to cover as many clauses as I can at once. I will conclude my remarks with a few brief comments. Doctors, from the word go, were totally opposed to Medibank and to the levy, the introduction of which we are discussing in this debate. They were opposed to all other forms of government national health schemes. They subscribed to previous health insurance schemes that existed. A great many doctors, in fact, now have incomes in excess of $250,000 a year. A huge number of Australian doctors are earning more than that amount annually. But the fact is that these doctors did not want this health scheme in the first place, although some may hum to themselves every night, 'My God how the money rolls in, rolls in'. They preferred a system under which people had to work - 
-No. That is what they are saying. They had to- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I uphold the point of order. The honourable member for 
Griffith will resume his seat unless he comes back to the amendment. 
-The Minister, in his second reading speech, assured the House that certain guarantees would be given to pensioners. I feel that the amendment is a last ditch political ploy by the Opposition to try to give the public the impression that we are not looking after pensioners. We are looking after pensioners. We looked after them prior to Medibank. I am quite sure that with the return of the Liberal-National Country Party Government not only pensioners but all citizens are better off than they would have been if the present Opposition had continued in government. 
It is rather usual for members of the Parliament not really to discuss the actual expenditure set aside for the various departments when considering the Estimates in Committee. It is ironic that we all seek opportunities to examine government expenditure; yet rarely do we take advantage of the opportunities that are presented to us. We use the occasion of the consideration of the Estimates each year more in the manner of a Grievance Day debate or an adjournment debate. 
One or two honourable members have alluded to the construction of a new parliament house. I wish very briefly to add my support to their appeal that we get on with the job. It is well known that from the day the green light is given some 10 years will elapse before a new parliament house is completed. All of those people who are familiar with the surrounds of the present Parliament House, which in 1927 was opened as a temporary parliament house, will know that the present building has grave inadequacies. I have been in this place for 10 years now and I have sat here year in and year out hearing pleas for the construction of a new parliament house. Committees are set up and committees report, but nothing is ever done. We all recall that the National Capital Development Commission set about constructing a ring road around Capital Hill. It was suggested then that because that ring road existed the Capital Hill site was unsuitable. Those honourable members who travel past the Prime Minister's Lodge in getting to and from Parliament House know that half of that ring road has been blocked off by logs placed across the road. That huge expenditure of money appears to have gone for naught. 
In considering the estimates for the Parliament we are discussing an amendment moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  That amendment asks the Government to reduce the appropriation, which amounts to some $ 13m, by $10 as a token of contempt for the way in which the present Government allegedly used the Senate last year. Basically I share the view held by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  namely that the Senate should not be the House which controls money matters. However, occasions do arise when it should, and one such occasion arose towards the end of last year when the Senate stepped in and said: 'Let the people decide'. The bitterness of which we see evidence from honourable members opposite is not motivated by the fact that the Australian public voted them back in such numbers that they could fit into a medium sized surf boat; rather their anger is motivated by the fact that they appointed their friend,  Sir John  Kerr, as Australia's Governor-General and that, in their eyes, he did the dirty on them. I will never forget how the then recently sacked Prime 
Minister, who is now the Leader of the Opposition, walked out on to the steps of Parliament House and said to those who waited for his every word: 'God save the Queen, but nobody will save the Governor-General '. One month and 2 days later nobody appeared to be ready to save the ex-Prime Minister. He limped back to Canberra with a most depleted group of supporters. 
We look back at those times and recall that the Governor-General was forced to sack or be sacked. When I say 'sack or be sacked', I refer to the fact that he concluded that he had a duty to perform. If he had talked to the then Prime Minister about what he had in mind he would have been sacked. So, it is obvious that some changes are necessary in the manner of the appointment and dismissal of a Governor-General. Perhaps a Governor-General should be protected, as are other people in various occupations throughout this country, by a provision that, say, three or six months notice be given of his dismissal to ensure that the situation which confronted our present Governor-General is never repeated. Members of the present Opposition speak as though the Governor-General acted with a sense of glee. I am quite certain that the Governor-General would have had many sleepness nights before he decided that, by virtue of this nation's Constitution, he had no option but to do what he did. Nobody who has any sense would suggest that he relished and enjoyed saying to the then Prime Minister: 'I have to step in. I have to dismiss you. I am going to commission the Leader of the Opposition as the nation's Prime Minister'. Ever since this new Parliament met we have heard speech after speech made by Opposition members about that event. We have witnessed such petty displays as when they boycotted various functions at which the Governor-General would be present. They have seemed to harp and harp on that particular subject. I do not suggest that, because the Australian public voted in such large numbers to remove the Labor Party from government or to endorse the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as Prime Minister, that in itself served to vindicate the decision which the Governor-General took. We all know that there are times when governments are unpopular and that if governments could be forced to face the people at such a time they might lose the election. 
The mechanism of this nation's Constitution is such that if a government cannot get Supply it must go to the people. The Constitution clearly sets out also that this country shall be governed under a 2-House parliamentary system. In its 
Constitution and policies the Labor Party advocates the abolition of the Senate. Members of the Labor Party do not simply advocate that policy in words; they carry out that idea in their very thoughts in this place. As far as they are concerned, the Senate does not exist. They regard it as a total effrontery that the Senate should interfere with decisions that are made in this chamber. I assure honourable members that there would not have been an Australian Parliament if the fathers of our Constitution had not agreed to a 2-House parliamentary system, with the second House ensuring that the rights of the small States are protected. I come from a small State, namely, the State of Queensland. It is a very proud State and a State which is advancing vigorously. I do not necessarily agree with everything that is done in that State, but I agree with most things that are done there. As one who comes from a small State, I am thankful that we have a Senate whose job is to protect the rights of the people in the State from whence I come. 
In conclusion, I would like to add to the comments made by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  when he referred to the appointment of  Senator Field  to the Senate. I do not like seeing people of another party sent here in replacement.  Senator Field  is one who came to this Parliament. The Labor Party bought trouble for itself. Let us not forget the Gair affair when the now Opposition was half smart, when it sent  Senator Gair  off to Dublin in an effort to gain another vacancy in a Senate election in Queensland. The then Government was simply being paid back for its half smartness. 
I wish to raise a couple of matters in the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Administrative Service. Firstly, I refer to the allocation for the Remuneration Tribunal which is to be increased from $134,000 to $162,000. We know that the tribunal is headed by 3 highly competent people who determine the rights not only of parliamentarians but also of academics and members of so many other sections of our community. I wish to refer to the support staff of the tribunal and to what I regard as the total inadequacy, inefficiency and inability of the members of that staff. Of late we have noticed that after the tribunal has come to a conclusion and made a finding the members of the support staff have the job of preparing a report to present to the Parliament. But I am seeing and feeling, as other members of this chamber are doing, the ramifications of the carelessness of the members of the support staff of the tribunal in the preparation of reports. I do not say that they are making intentional errors, but errors are being made. Because of the carelessness which these people are displaying members of Parliament are losing certain conditions which have existed for years to enable us carefully to carry out our duties as members of Parliament. 
Frankly, I do not believe it is good enough that we should increase from $134,000 to $162,000 the appropriation for the salaries of these people in the secretariat of the tribunal when they are putting in such a mediocre performance. I do not normally stand in this Parliament and attack public servants who do not have an opportunity to defend themselves, but if these people are accidentally to attack the conditions which have had to be fought for to enable us to work effectively, I believe it is good enough for me to voice my opinion here. I conclude my remarks on this point by saying to these people: 'Put your minds to it, be more careful and earn the money that you are being paid, because if you are hurting members of Parliament by your carelessness no doubt other sections of the community also are suffering'. 
Next I refer to the allocation of almost $26m for the Commonwealth Police. This allocation is being increased from almost $22m. Much of this money no doubt will be set aside to protect the Parliament and the Governor-General because of the still simmering fever which has been whipped up by honourable members opposite. At every opportunity that is presented to them, including tonight, they give the GovernorGeneral another bash. They kick him in the backside, stir up their supporters and keep the pot boiling. On every occasion when the GovernorGeneral goes somewhere, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory, a huge number of Commonwealth Police are required to protect him from the violence which is displayed by some of the supporters of honourable members opposite. Of course, the provision of this increased allocation of $3m for the Commonwealth Police does not give a true picture of the additional expenditure incurred in protecting the Governor-General because in the States the State governments are involved in additional costs in protecting him. I suggest that the continuing wailing and antics of the Opposition are costing this country a great deal of money in providing protection for the Governor-General and others associated with him. 
In the 5 minutes of speaking time remaining to me I wish to discuss the Commonwealth Electoral Act. If ever there is an Act of this Parliament which needs amending it is that Act. 
-The honourable member for Prospect recalls the numerous speeches that I have made in this chamber about postal voting. Never in the life of this nation has there been a greater crusader for the cleaning up of the electoral system of this nation than the likes of myself. I have been persistent and consistent in ensuring that the evils that have crept into the operation of the Act are eliminated and in ensuring that we have pure and clean democracy. I suppose that some might say that it is a reflection upon my ability to persuade others that after 10 years the provisions of the Act in relation to postal voting are still as they were a decade ago when I first arrived in this place. But let it not be thought that I have forgotten about this matter and let it not be thought that my persistence has been eroded or has been confronted with resistance because I am as determined as ever. 
We are now back in government and have in the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  a Minister who is very conscious of the need to ensure that there are no loopholes of which people can take advantage. I hope the Minister will be prepared to alter the postal voting system. As this country requires people compulsorily to vote under the threat of a fine I really believe that the Commonwealth or the Electoral Office has an obligation to provide a voting system that makes it easy for the aged, sick and infirm and for those who live in remote pans of our country to vote. I believe, as I have stated in this House before, that a register should be kept of those persons who are aged and infirm and that at the time of every federal election it should be obligatory upon the Electoral Office to send them application forms that require simply a signature and that remind those persons that if they make a false declaration they may be confronted with a penalty. We know the rorts that go on with postal voting. We know how the system can be worked. We all know that. 
I thought I heard somebody speak. Let him be not the one to cast the first stone. I have a file in my cupboard about the way in which the honourable member for Chifley gathers postal votes. 
-Irrespective of that I do have one on the honourable member for Chifley. In conclusion I say that I do hope that the Government will come to grips with the problem and provide a new system that ensures that the shenanigans that go on in relation to postal voting are removed. In Queensland postal voting represents perhaps 3 per cent or 4 per cent of the total State vote. We all know that many seats could change hands if that percentage of the postal votes were manipulated. I am quite certain that some postal voting is manipulated. I admit that I have a system concerning postal voting but it is a legitimate system that works within the framework of the Act. I had to devise that system to survive. Honourable members opposite were certainly doing their level best to work the system to their advantage and I had to take steps to protect myself. All I ask for is a fair go and a fair share of the votes, which is at least 50 per cent plus one. 
I direct my question to my friend and colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that from time to time unnecessary ill will is created in our society as a result of Aboriginal grants being made to persons who do not appear to be Aborigines? Does the Minister agree that this is a most regrettable but sometimes understandable happening? Will the Minister turn his attention to drawing up guidelines for a definition of those who unquestionably qualify for the grants, thus ensuring that those who really qualify for assistance are those who receive it, thereby removing a source of ill will in our society? 
We are discussing the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In so doing, it would be proper to draw to the attention of the Committee the fact that we want neither overindulgent idealism nor over-zealous pursuit of economic efficiency when we question the expenditure which has been made available to this Department for the ensuing year. I notice that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is at the table. I know that he agrees that what we want most of all is a reasonable and sensible approach. But in these times, we cannot divorce ourselves from the realism that we as a nation are slowly but surely crawling out from under the greatest mullock heap of economic disaster that has struck this nation since the great Depression. Of course, I am referring to the aftermath of the previous Australian Labor Party Government. 
The previous Opposition speakers in this debate have alluded to the fact that there has been a cut in expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. As the Minister informed honourable members earlier today, the Government gave an undertaking earlier in the year and again in the recent Budget that it would review expenditure on Aboriginal affairs, and that if it were found that the cuts which had been made were excessive the original amount of expenditure would be restored. So today we have the welcome announcement by the Minister that an extra $2 5 m has been restored for expenditure in this field. Opposition members decry the fact that expenditure on Aboriginal affairs is to be some $8m less this year than the previous year. At the outset, to my recollection there are only 2 government departmentsthe Department of Defence and the Department of Education- in which expenditure in real terms has grown. An $8m cut in expenditure on Aboriginal affairs does not mean that the Aboriginal people of this country will be any worse off than they were when that extra $8m was being allocated a year ago. 
As we all realise, the keynote to success or progress is not necessarily connected with the amount of money which is spent but rather with the way in which it is spent. When we look, for instance, at the field of housing and see how this Government has made changes to ensure the better use of consultants and how the Department of Construction will now be utilised in an advisory capacity, it is a very brave man, or rather a very foolish man, who will argue that in that area alone things will be worse. By the employment of these 2 other avenues we can certainly get a better job for less money. Let us look at the Labor Party's record and some of its projects and recall the inquiry into the turtle farm project. The turtle farm had so many loose bones that when you shook it it was like listening to a tambourine. It is little wonder that when we came to power we said that one of the first things we were going to do was to look at the way in which money was being expended in the cause of the advancement of the Aboriginals. We are also providing better administration to the Department, within the Department and to the various projects. 
One smiles when one listens to the official Opposition spokesmen on Aboriginal affairs in this place- the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  They were both Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and were both sacked as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

They were both sacked; there is no disputing that. Honourable members opposite have only to read the records. The honourable member for Wills went out in disgrace. The honourable member for Hughes went out a little bit more quietly. What did their successor say?  Senator Cavanagh  was the third Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in 3 years. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs was almost like the Department of the Treasury. The Labor Government had the same amount of success with each of them.  Senator Cavanagh  described Aboriginal affairs as 'the ALP's greatest area of disaster in the 3 years'. When we consider all the ALP's other disasters, it is really saying something for a former ALP Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to come out and describe Aboriginal affairs in this way. But I believe that with the change of government we have not seen, as some of the pundits who predict gloom foresaw, a sudden turnoff of the advancement of Aboriginals. I willingly and readily concede that despite Labor's stupidity in its approach, the Aboriginal cause in the 3 years of Labor was advanced. One recent aspect which fills me with considerable pride is the fact that the present Government has kept its word in relation to the advancement of the Aboriginal people. Under the leadership of the Minister who is presently at the table, their cause has not only been well presented but has continued to be advanced. As the Minister said in his speech this afternoon, and as I said earlier tonight, one cannot judge progress simply in terms of dollars expended. 
In the remaining minutes available to me, I conclude by harking back to a question that I directed to the Minister in the House today. The Minister will recall that I asked him about the definition of an Aborigine as far as qualifying for government assistance was concerned. The Minister handled that question so well that I wondered whether he had been waiting for it all year. But I really believe that within our society there is a degree of intolerance to the cause that we are supporting here this evening. It would appear that people who really should not qualify for grants, aid and assistance to develop themselves under the appropriations for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are getting these grants. 
I know that it is a very ticklish and difficult question and is one which cannot easily be answered. I believe that in the interests of tolerance towards what has to be done and what must be done to correct the mistakes that were made over 2 centuries the Minister has a very definite duty to ensure that the money which is allocated for the advancement of Aboriginal people is directed towards them and them alone. He should ensure that it is not available to those who, on a passing whim, suddenly make claim to being an Aborigine because far in the background they have a trace of Aboriginal blood which, under the present legislation and definitions, allows them to become entitled to the assistance. I believe we must ensure that the people whom the money is allocated to assist are those who get it There are those outside who regrettably make our cause of assistance more difficult because they play on those rather unfortunate prejudices which exist. I am pleased that recent gallup polls indicate that the majority of Australians want us to continue to help the Aboriginals. Let us continue to bring this about. 
Thank you for giving me the call,  Mr Speaker.  It will be a jolly good speech too. I wish to take up tonight the cause of a man whose political philosophies, I believe, to be different from my own in that he agreed to take up the position of permanent head of the Department of the Prime Minister during the previous Administration. I do not take up his cause alone but also the cause of his secretary which concerns me. Those of us who have read the newspapers lately will have seen articles which state that Australian Public Service Association (Fourth Division Officers) has made an approach to the Public Service Board to stop a Miss Elaine Miller travelling with  Mr Menadue  to Japan when he takes up his appointment as Australia's Ambassador to that country. This Government has regarded him as a suitable appointee to the position. I believe that a businessman or a public servant and a secretary can be like a team. A good secretary can be like a man's right hand. A good secretary can be like a good wife. A man can feel as though he is in a 6 foot rubber dinghy without oars in mid Pacific ocean without her. I wish to defend the concept of a man in his position being able to take with him that integral part of his office and of his efficiency, that which has made him what he is- his secretary. I have personally seen excellent and competent Public Service stenographers. But I have seen others who have been highly graded by the Public Service who would not hold down jobs as invoice typists in private industry. The protests of the Fourth Division of the Public Service Association is petty. Regrettably unionism in this country has for far too long thrust upon us and perpetuated a degree of mediocrity that causes sub-standards. If  Mr Menadue  feels that his secretary is a vital part of his set-up, he should be allowed to take her with him to Tokyo.  Mr Speaker,  since you have held your present position you have been regarded by honourable members from both sides of this House as displaying a great degree of fairness to all sides. I ask you - 
-We did not hear that. 
-The honourable member for Newcastle would be at home with the monkeys, that is for sure.  Mr Speaker,  I ask that you take a personal interest in this case to ensure that fairness prevails. 
I know it is unusual for members of this House to speak in the third reading stage of a Bill, but I want to express my pleasure at the fact that the Bill has reached this stage and that shortly there will be an increase in the amount of the nation's wealth which is expended on caring for those in need of social welfare. Following the heated debate which has ensued this afternoon, I wish to make the point that the Liberal-National Country Party Government has greatly increased the amount of money available for social welfare. Last year in the Hayden Labor Budget a total of $5,0 12m was outlaid on social security and welfare. The Bill before the House increases that amount to $6, 187m. 
For a number of years now I, along with other colleagues from the City of Brisbane, have presented the case for the re-siting of the Brisbane Airport. Many words have been spoken. One of the most unfortunate aspects of this matter in recent years was that when the Liberals went out of power in 1972 so did the fulfilment of our promise to the people that we would get on withthe establishment of the new airport. The Labor Government received the Coombs Committee's report in which unfortunately  Dr Coombs  suggested that the Brisbane Airport resiting program should be scrapped. Many suburbs in Brisbane are affected by the noise. These include Wynnum North and many other suburbs in my electorate. I have estimated that some 50 000 people in the City of Brisbane are affected every day by aircraft noise. Many of these people had built their homes before the introduction of jet aircraft. I cannot reproduce the aircraft noise myself but the recording that I am now playing will give honourable members some idea of what the people of Brisbane have to suffer. The noise produced by the larger jets causes havoc within the homes over which they pass. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 15 minutes to 1 o'clock, in accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 'That grievances be noted'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that there is justified and growing public concern about the effects of television advertising upon children? Does the Minister recall how this Government followed the procedures put in train by the previous Government to eliminate the advertising of tobacco products on radio and television? Does the Minister agree with my contention that television advertisements directed towards children or television advertisements in which children are used as promoters are psychologically damaging to children? Will the Minister approach the commercial television group with a request that it commences immediately the withdrawal of what might be described as kiddie ads and if it refuses will he follow the same procedures as those implemented to phase out tobacco advertisements? 
Some months ago the Liberal-National Country Party Government took a bold step, against organised opposition, and carried out the previous Government's proposal to ban tobacco and cigarette advertising on radio and television. Tonight we heard the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  speak about the quality of children's television programs. I congratulate him on his worthwhile contribution to the debate this evening. I wish to speak on another point which relates very much to that subject. That I supported the ban on tobacco and cigarette advertising should not be construed as a lack of appreciation on my part of the revenue problems confronting the electronics media in some regions; nor should it be thought that I am an advocate of wholesale interference by government in dictating to the media that which should be advertised or the manner in which advertising should be presented. But I am an advocate of responsibility and standards in advertising. 
Though I see little television, I am concerned about the growing practice in our country of television advertising being directed towards children. It is universally recognised that television is the top impact medium. It is the most expensive. No one spends huge amounts of money without the anticipation of a huge return. Therefore it must be conceded that the directing of advertising towards children to promote adult usage and child usage products pays handsome dividends to the advertiser. I am free enterprise to the boots, but it is essential to the survival of free enterprise that on occasions constraints be self imposed or government imposed to ensure an unchecked private enterprise system does not eventually lead to its own destruction. I believe in particular that the aiming of adult usage product advertising towards children is creating dislocation which causes immediate problems and which will germinate in the relentless pursuit of the unattainable in adulthood. 
It is difficult enough for a parent of the last quarter of the twentieth century to raise children without having to fight commercially developed hang-ups relating to a false need to keep up with the Joneses. Not only do we see small children in these advertisements chastising a parent for not using such and such a product, with the suggestion that the mother or father just does not know what she or he is doing, but also we see children, pumped by clever advertisers, being psyched into believing that if they do not have a particular toy their life is incomplete. Such advertising is bad enough in comic books or newspapers, but I am firmly of the opinion that when a message like this is conveyed by way of television, which is the most successful brainwashing machine yet devised, we are damaging the young. 
I am referring specifically to the advertising of soap powders, foodstuffs, dolls and toys. I wonder how many small children these days run home a moment after they fall over and scratch themselves and demand one of the famous products produced by the Johnson and Johnson organisation- the bandaid. I am not referring, of course, to motor car advertisements which depict a family travelling somewhere in a motor car and which say that it is a particularly suitable motor car for family usage and I am not referring to a family group that is depicted in a barbecue situation using a certain product, but I am referring to some of the other things that I mentioned but a moment ago. It might be appropriate to mention, although all the votes have not been counted, that  President  Ford had an advertisement on American television showing himself convincing a group of children of the virtues of voting for him. 
I have been told that the United Kingdom bans child orientated advertisements. If that is so, let us follow the lesson that it has learned from its longer association with its media. Let that be our standard. If not, let us become the standard setter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to page 612 of Vol. 1 : 10, page 701 of Vol. 1:11, page 717 of Vol. 1 : 12 and page 803 of Vol. 1 : 13 of the  Commonwealth Record  where programme is spelt 'program'. 
) Has he or any Minister directed that the spelling of the language is to be simplified. 
Has a direction been given to shorten words for the purpose of effecting a saving in paper and ink. 
Has an American been recruited to the staff of the Government Printer and placed in charge of the  Commonwealth Record program 
I am always amused when I hear the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  speak about 1 1 November 1975 because all members of this Parliament and his electors know that at that time last year he was walking along the Strand and as he passed Australia House he wondered why the crowds were clamouring around that building chanting out: 'Hurrah, hooray, hooray'. He learnt much to his horror that his father had just been dismissed by the Governor-General and home he came running. So much for that. We are talking of other matters here today. 
I direct my remarks principally to the Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Bill (No. 2). I suggest that a myth surrounds this nation's judiciary. The myth is that there are but a handful of judges, commissioners and stipendiary magistrates. Because of that myth they are able to receive a salary which is rarely scrutinised or compared with salaries for other callings. Because of that myth they are able to deliver a work performance- whether it be excellent or poorthat is never commented upon or scrutinised. Indeed our own Standing Orders- I refer to standing order 75- grants them particular protection. I am not for a moment breaking that standing order. 
I make it quite clear that I am not opposing the new Federal Court of Australia but rather I am endeavouring to tear away the wraps of mystery which surround our judiciary and facilitate the payment of salaries far in excess of the salaries of the nation's parliamentarians and more significantly way ahead of the nation's Ministers. I see that the nation's top lawman, the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott),  is seated at the table. Even the Attorney-General's salary is $10,000 behind the salary paid to many members of the nation's judiciary. Australia is often referred to as the over-governed country of the world where there is a politician on almost every corner. I have done some work on the numbers in the nation's judiciary. It indicates that if politicians are 2-bob a dozen judicial officers are only 25c a dozen. 
-Well, you are probably being paid in accordance with your value.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would like to drop that little comment. I do not feel that at all about the Minister at the table. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I do not think that we can delete something that was said. I will leave it to the discretion of  Hansard. 
I hope it is understood that I was retaliating to what was only a very friendly remark. We will call it quits at that. 
I have had some figures taken out by the Legislative Reference Service of the Parliamentary Library. I seek the permission of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the Opposition spokesman, to have the documents incorporated in  Hansard. 
In summary I refer to New South Wales where there are some 78 judges and 91 stipendiary magistrates. In Queensland there are 33 judges and 6 1 magistrates. In Tasmania there are 6 judges and 14 state magistrates. In South Australia there are some 24 judges and 30 stipendiary magistrates. In Victoria there are 49 judges and 65 stipendiary magistrates. In Western Australia there are 18 State judges, 29 stipendiary magistrates and in addition 4 State Family Court judges. On the Federal scene which includes the High Court, the Australian Industrial Court, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, the Family Court of Australia, the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, the Law Reform Commission, the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration, the Royal Commission into Human Relationships, the Grants Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Trade Practices Commission and the Trade Practices Tribunal, there are a total of some 56 judges and 52 commissioners. We are all aware that the Federal Court of Australia Bill will add to the number of Federal judges and commissioners. The grand total of the State judges, Federal judges, commissioners and stipendiary magistrates is 607 with more to come because of the Federal Court of Australia Bill. 
I said before that if politicians are 2-bob a dozen the judiciary could be sold at 25c a dozen. To balance my mathematics it must be pointed out that the total of State and Federal parliamentariansthat includes of course both upper Houses and lower Houses- comes to some 756. There we are with 756 politicians and 607 judicial officers throughout Australia. Yet when we look at the salaries paid to the judiciary and compare them with the salaries paid to parliamentarians the figures are not so close. The judicial 

<graphic href="101131197611102_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

officers on average would probably be receiving $38,000 to $39,000 a year. That is more than the salary of the nation's highest law officer, the Attorney-General. If one were to believe that the judicial officers were always hard-working one might be able to live with the knowledge of their high salaries. I wish to incorporate in  Hansard  information which was gathered by an honourable senator on the performances of the judges of the Australian Industrial Court between 1971 and 1975. 1 seek the permission of the House to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
I had no intention of re-entering this debate until the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  made a comment. The speech to which he alluded was my contribution at about 5 o'clock this afternoon, and I will not readily forget the response from the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  As far as I am concerned, it was one of his memorable speeches. I did not suggest that the judiciary was not hard working. I cited the Australian Industrial Court, which is but one of the many courts throughout the country. I referred to the difference between the salary of my friend the Attorney-General, for instance, who is the highest law officer in the country, and those of some judges to whom his very high decisions are referred. I want that to be clearly understood. I realise that both the Opposition spokesman and the Attorney-General are men who have a background of great legal learning. 
-They advise each other too. It might be suggested that their views are slightly prejudiced because of their background. I hope it is clearly understood that I stand in this place to put the views of the majority of Australians. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral does not give me another serve like he gave me before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-I make reference to a misrepresentation in today's  Australian.  I do not claim that it was done with malice or anything like that, but there is an article in that newspaper which refers to the Fraser Island mining issue and which names supporters of the Federal Government who, it claims, were opposed to the decision on Fraser Island mining. The article suggests that I was opposed to the decision. It purports to be a report of the Party room meeting. I want to make it plain that I simply mentioned that there was a need for compensation where possible. But, unpopular as the decision may be in some parts of Queensland, I can only admit to endorsing the decision which was made by the Cabinet and the Government. 
I wish to speak today on the subject of Taiwanese fishing vessels operating in Australian waters. Before doing so I shall make brief mentionand it deserves nothing more than that- of the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  As one who was present at the function on Tuesday evening, having seen the responsible way in which members on this side of the chamber responded when we were surprised by certain events, I say that the speech of the honourable member does him no credit. He has a reputation in this place as being the muck raker and the bucket tipper every time the Australian Labor Party has to dredge someone up to do the dirty work. He continues to fulfil his role well; I wish him well in the future. 
I express concern at the growth in the number of Taiwanese fishing vessels that have been apprehended in Australian waters in recent years. In 1972 4 vessels were apprehended. Two were apprehended in 1973 and a further 2 in 1974. In 1975 there was a massive increase when 25 vessels were apprehended. In the current year to 23 August 1976, 14 vessels had been apprehended. With respect to penalties in 1975 1 1 vessels were forfeited and fines ranging from $50 to $500 were imposed. All the forfeited vessels were sold back to the former Taiwanese owners for amounts ranging from $785 to $12,600. In 1976, twelve of the 14 vessels apprehended were forfeited. Fines have ranged from $50 to $ 1,000. All of the forfeited vessels have been sold back to the former Taiwanese owners for amounts ranging from $5,000 to $20,000. 
There has been a tremendous increase in the number of Taiwanese fishing vessels encroaching upon the shores of this land. I believe that these fishermen have done considerable damage, particularly to clams in the Great Barrier Reef. The long-line fishermen and the clam searchers are all inflicting damage which will not be easily repaired on this nation's marine life which will need hundreds upon hundreds of years to recover. 
This Government, as was the case with the previous Australian Government, under the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  has sought through the Law of the Sea Conference to ensure that Australia has a widened economic and resources zone of some 200 miles to ensure that we can adequately police our waters and, more importantly, protect our resources. There are 2 conventions which are presently in force. They are the Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone and the Convention on the Continental Shelf. The first Convention accords to each country sovereignty subject to a right of innocent passage for foreign shipping over a belt of sea adjacent to its coast but the width is not specified. The second Convention accords sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring and exploiting natural resources to each country over a continental shelf to a depth of 200 metres or to where the superjacent waters admit of the exploitation of natural resources. I believe that a majority of the countries taking part in the Law of the Sea Conference are seeking to extend the previous 12-mile territorial sea limit to a 200-mile wide economic zone. They also support the establishment of an international agency to explore and exploit the international seabed area for the benefit of mankind, with benefits from its activities to go in part to undeveloped countries. 
I believe that over the years we have given sufficient warning to Taiwanese fishermen. I was in Taiwan in 1969, 1970 and 1971. On each occasion I was there I impressed upon the 
Government of that country that there was one thing that was happening that was not attracting friends in this country, namely, the continual exploitation by its fishermen of the waters of Australia without regard to the damage that is done in the search for food. I do not suggest for one moment that the less fortunate or developing countries should be pushed back into their own areas. But I believe that the Taiwanese have been warned. They have been told. But regrettably they continue to ignore the wishes of this country. There is little that we can do to stop them from coming close to our country. But, certainly when they are caught, we can take action. 
I suggest a measure which may well be effective in our attempt to stop this fishing. The trade figures for 1975-76 indicate that Australia exported to Taiwain products to the value of $114m and imported from Taiwan products to the value of $ 134m. The balance of trade is well and truly on the side of Taiwan. I believe that as on our Barrier Reef one million clams a year are being slaughtered by the Taiwanese fishermen the Australian Government has to go to the Taiwanese Government and say: 'You have been warned. We are deadly serious on this matter. If your fishermen continue to plunder what belongs to us we will have to consider stopping trade with you as a form of protest. ' I cannot understand why the Taiwanese Government cannot make a greater effort to inform its fishermen that to go into the near waters of Australia will be extremely embarrassing. I did not enjoy delivering this address against Taiwan. I believe that the previous Government made a grave error and sold out our position to mainland China when it simply agreed to recognise China and to dismiss the presence of Taiwan. But that is history. Today we deal with the plunder of our clams and our marine life. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to the suggestion that there be a threat of the cessation of trade with Taiwan unless it commences to respect what rightfully belongs to us. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports that some State governments are contemplating banning a Christian religious group called the Children of God? Does the Minister agree that an incredibly dangerous precedent is set when a government commences passing judgments on any religious group, Christian or non-Christian? Will the Minister assure the House that this type of legislation will not be introduced in the Commonwealth Territories? Will the Minister advise the House whether it is constitutional for State governments to move against religious groups? 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  made reference to what he described as hysteria on this side of the Committee. He said that Government supporters had a feeling that the Australian Labor Party had made the ABC its front. Of course, we are dealing with the Broadcasting Tribunal so proposed by this clause. The. honourable member for Robertson ran off the rails for a moment. I should like to correct his comments. He referred to Government members regarding the ABC as an ALP front. For the sake of the honourable member for Robertson I should like to relate to the House the words uttered at a conference by  Mr Marius  Webb on 28 November 1975 when he referred to the ABC commissioners.  His  comments have caused some concern on this side of the Committee in recent times. He said: 
The Commissioners are now all Labor appointees of Connie Benn, Richard Harding, Hackett, Lashwood, Smith and Harris and Jacobsen are all pretty much on side- 
He adds: 
You cultivate Harding a bit? Yes he is good. He walks around the corridors handing out 'Shame Fraser, Shame' buttons but other than that . . . and so it goes on. If the honourable member for Robertson sat down one day and read this transcript of the address given by Marius Webb a year ago, he would learn- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I am not sure but I think the honourable member is talking about the Commission and not the Tribunal. This clause does not deal with the Commission. Will the honourable member tie his remarks to the Tribunal? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, you allowed the honourable member for Robertson to talk about the Commission. I was only correcting what he said because later his remarks will be forgotten and lost. I was saying that the Commission was a cesspool of people with Labor leanings. I will not go so far as to say that its members were 'commos' and 'radicals'. I want to speak to the clause we are supposed to be dealing with and which relates to the Tribunal. I would like the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to explain to the Committee how he can guarantee that the Tribunal will be responsive to community needs. I note that proposed new section 16(1) (b) contains the words 'to determine the conditions subject to which advertisements may be broadcast or televised by licensees'. In recent weeks there has been growing concern in this country about the quality and effect of advertisements shown during what might be described as children's hours, that part of the day set aside for viewing by children. Children are frequently used in the advertisements and the advertisements are frequently directed towards children. We know that television advertising is very expensive and no advertiser is likely to outlay huge sums of money to produce an advertisement unless he is convinced that it is going to bring about a profitable return. It would therefore seem that advertisements directed towards children pay handsome dividends. One honourable member remarks that it is pretty cheap acting and that is so but there again the expenditure of large sums of money does not always guarantee the best result, as we saw with the previous Labor Government. 
Returning to the point regarding children being used as actors and being the focal point of advertisements, I believe there is a growing awareness in the community of what is happening in this area. The yapping and the barking have started in Sydney and Melbourne. I come from Queensland and I was speaking of this matter there. Queensland is always ahead of most of the other States and I believe this awakening came from Queensland in the first place. As this awareness grows relating to the damage that can be done in this area I wonder how we can be sure that the Tribunal will be responsive to public needs. I want the Minister specifically to assure me and other honourable members in the chamber who I know are vitally interested in this matter how it is proposed that there will be a response. 
I have been disturbed in recent weeks as I have noticed from newspaper reports that some State governments are considering the introduction of identity cards. The application of ID cards can go far and wide. I want to convey to the House some of the uses to which various governments throughout the world require ID cards to be put. They may be required for the simple act of voting. On many occasions they are required by police. They may be required for social security or tax purposes. In one country a person needs an ID card even to go to school. They may be required for travelling in a country or for internal security purposes. I think it is in Laos that they are required for obtaining government rations. ID cards may be required for census purposes and for a host of other reasons. 
Some have been introduced simply for the purposes of voting, to identify a voter at the poll, ut they have been developed within those countries as a general identification card. Some countries even require a person's fingerprints, as well as his photograph, to be set out clearly on the card. In some cases there is the likelihood of arrest and prosecution if a person fails to carry his ID card at all times. In the United States of America one is not required by law to carry an ID card at all times, but in that country I, perhaps like a number of other members in this chamber, have been called upon to produce an ID card and have even been refused service because of my inability to identify myself properly. 
-What a silly interjection! I ask permission of the Opposition member at the table to have incorporated in  Hansard  a paper prepared for me by the Legislative Reference Service of the Parliamentary Library. The incorporation has been cleared by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I did not know that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  would be at the table. 
It truly has been cleared. 
-While the honourable member for Melbourne examines that complex document, I will mention that in many instances it traces the history of the initial introduction of ID cards, seemingly for innocent purposes, but their extension later to become as indelible upon a nation's lifestyle and as permanent as a number tattooed upon the citizen's hand. The ills of this nation are of an economic nature and not of internal subversion. 
In the moments that remain to me I make a plea to all honourable members of this chamber to ensure that they resist any attempt, whether it be by a State government or by a Federal government, to introduce identity cards. When the day arrives that each and every Australian has to carry an ID card this nation certainly will have lost a lot. I assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that I have been interested in what is broadly described as civil liberties ever since I arrived in this place, and after10 years my determination to ensure that those liberties are preserved is in no way diminished. 

 The document read as follows- 

I would like to compliment the Legislative Reference Service on the excellent job it did in the preparation of the document which has been incorporated. 
-On 9 November 1976 the Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Moreton,  Mr Killen,  said: 
This is a small procedural Bill which seeks to amend the Defence Act. It arises out of a suggestion made by the Chief of the Air Staff that the term 'air' within the Royal Australian Air Force organisation is confusing some people because they because that it applies to civil aviation. The purpose of the Bill, in effect, is to put that position beyond all doubt. The term 'air' within the RAAF organisation will be replaced by the term 'air force'. Therefore, 'Air Office' will become 'Air Force Office' and 'Defence Instruction (Air)' issued by the Chief of Air Staff under the Defence Act will become 'Defence Instructions (Air Force)'. That is the thrust of the Bill. It seeks to amend section 9A of the Defence Act and also makes routine amendments to the Defence Act. I have already said to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who is at the table - 
He is not at the table now- that I do not think it is the sort of Bill -  (Quorum formed).  It is appropriate to remember that, whilst honourable members opposite are complaining about the exercise in which we on this side of the House are engaging, it is the speakers that they listed for this debate who have reneged and who have placed the Government in the position of having time on its hands before the commencement of the adjournment debate. If honourable members opposite had done the right thing - 
I appreciate your timely intervention,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  As I was saying, if honourable members opposite had done the right thing and had spoken on this Bill as arranged we would not be subjected to this rather embarrassing situation. 
-Despite what the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  says, I have a list here. Under the heading 'Defence Amendment Bill' appears the name Hayden' as spokesman for the Labor Party. I am quite sure that he does not sit on this side of the House. Before I was interrupted I was referring to the speech made on 9 November - 
-He cannot raise a point of order while he is not in his correct seat. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
-What the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  just said is completely untrue; but let me tell him that if I had just had a party with 20 women and I was seeking a eunuch to stand guard over them I would not ask the honourable member for Hindmarsh to fulfil that role. 
I appreciate your protection,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Just before I was interrupted I was recalling a speech made on 9 November 1976 by the honourable member for Moreton and Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I conclude by saying that he said in that speech:  . . I do not think it is the sort of Bill which will cause tumult throughout the country. Nevertheless, it is a Bill which I commend to honourable members. 
Again I go back to the point that regrettably honourable members on the other side of the House have failed to appear to speak on this procedural Bill. I do hope that honourable members on both sides of the House are able to enter an early adjournment debate tonight. I do not think any more efforts from this side of the House will hold up this debate. I commend the Bill and support the Minister. 
Motion (by  Mr Armitage)  put: 
I have been asked to restrict my comments this evening because of the desire of this House to facilitate the passage of these Bills to the other chamber. Therefore, I shall say at the outset that I completely support the Bill to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections. I support the Bill which requires the alteration of the Constitution so as to provide for retiring ages for judges of Federal courts. I support the Bill to alter the Constitution so as to ensure, so far as practical, that a casual vacancy in the Senate is filled by a person of the same political party as the senator chosen by the people for the balance of his term. However, I support a couple of members on this side of the House who have been alert enough to draw to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  the fact that there are a couple of problems in those Bills which need some attention. For example, in the case of a Labor Party senator changing his Party affiliations, as did many Labor Party members in previous years who joined other parties such as the Democratic Labor Party, we would be courting a dangerous situation if we had to ensure that a casual vacancy was filled by a person of the Party to which the departing senator belonged at the time of the election. 
The purpose of the fourth Bill is to alter the Constitution to allow electors in Territories as well as electors in the States to vote at referendums on proposed laws to alter the Constitution. I am a Party man, and my Party has decided that it is in the interests of the nation that we all support this proposed change to the Constitution. Far be it from me to oppose such wisdom. However, I am somewhat concerned. I hark back to the referendum of 1 8 May 1 974 when exactly the same question was posed. The ballot paper read: 
An Act to facilitate alterations to the Constitution and to allow electors in Territories, as well as electors in the States,  to vote at referendums on proposed laws to alter the Constitution. 
The question then posed was this: 
Do you approve the proposed law? 
My concern is motivated by the fact that on that occasion 1 367 000 people in New South Wales said 'yes' and 1 295 000 people said 'no'. But in every other State in Australia- Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania- there was a 'no' vote. From an historical point of view one cannot be blamed for having a deep concern about the future rights of the people of the Australian Capital Territory, and the Northern Territory. One cannot be blamed for wondering how this question will be received just  2Vi  years later, or exactly 3 years later if the referendum is held in May. The people voted against the proposition on that occasion and I do not really believe that people change their views that quickly. Much to my amazement, astonishment and fear, I heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  this afternoon talk about people of the Cocos Islands, Christmas Island and Norfolk Island, as Territories of Australia, being given the right to vote in referendums in this country. But the results of the last referendum speak for themselves. 
The High Court of Australia- indeed the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick- has considered the question whether the Territories are entitled to elect senators. The High Court almost suggested in its recent judgment on the MacKellar challenge that perhaps it might be wise for Queensland and Western Australia again to present a full challenge. If a review is made of the earlier High Court decision in relation to the eligibility of senators from the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory sitting in this place one wonders whether, in view of the retirement of  Mr Justice  McTiernan and of the appointment of another judge, the result will be a definite 'no' meaning that those senators are not entitled to sit in this place. Of course, I am not as learned as those gentlemen who sit on the High Court bench, but my view is that the senators from the Australian Capital Territory have absolutely no right to take their place in this Parliament. That is a private view and one which would be best kept to myself. 
I have referred to the Australian Capital Territory and to the Northern Territory. The only reason the Australian Capital Territory exists is that section 125 of the Constitution requires that at least 100 square miles of land be set aside for the purpose of the creation of a capital territory. 
Converted into metric terms, the Capital Territory represents 2429 square kilometres. Many honourable members in this chamber forget the history of the Northern Territory. They are unaware of the historical formation of the Northern Territory. The central section of the northern half of Australia, which was at first part of New South Wales and later part of South Australia, in 1911 became a Territory administered by the Commonwealth under the name by which it had been known for many years, the Northern Territory of Australia. Its total area is approximately half a million square miles. To go back a little before that time, in 1883 South Australia began to negotiate with the Colonial Office for a permanent annexation of the Territory. In 1890 South Australia conferred parliamentary franchise on the Northern Territory which was allowed to elect 2 members to the House of Assembly which was based in Adelaide. On the establishment of the Commonwealth in 1901 the people of the Northern Territory were included in the electorate of Grey, which still exists today of course, for representation in this House. They were able to vote in the election of the then 6 South Australian senators. There existed a strong body of opinion in favour of transferring the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth Government, and in 1906 negotiations with the Commonwealth commenced and an agreement was reached in December 1907. 
The Northern Territory Surrender Act was passed by South Australia, and in August 1909 the Commonwealth Northern Territory Acceptance Act became law with a formal transfer taking place on 1 January 1911. Following troubles during the latter part of the First World War and during the rest of that decade, a royal commission which severely criticised Commonwealth administration of the Territory caused the Commonwealth Act of 1923 which granted the Territory a representative in the House of Representatives, who was allowed to take part in all debates but who could not vote except on a motion for the disallowance of any ordinance of the Northern Territory. Granted, in those days the vast distance and the crude form of transport which then existed made the aforementioned decisions sensible ones. 
December 13, 1975, is not an historical date simply because it marked the massive defeat of the Whitlam Government. It is also the date of the first election held in 1947 in the Territory following the establishment at that time of the Northern Territory Legislative Council which, as all honourable members are aware, is still in existence today. 
Because I come from the State of Queensland I am not necessarily expressing concern about this matter, but in view of the fact that we have a lot of doubt over the future of the territorial senators and in view of the fact that there is some question as to their area of responsibility or power, I wish to propose a scheme which will ensure that the people of the Australian Capital Territory who presently feel like second class citizens, and the people of the Northern Territory who presently feel like second class citizens, do not feel that way any longer. 
I propose that in this referendum we should add a proposition that section 125 of the Constitution, which specifies that the territory for the Australian capital city comprise at least 100 square miles, be amended to read something like  10 square miles' so that we can draw the capital city back to the parliamentary triangle- bring it around Lake Burley Griffin- and count all those people who live on the outskirts as part of New South Wales. I remind honourable members that on 18 May 1974 New South Wales was the only State that was prepared to vote 'yes' in favour of allowing the votes of the people of the Australian Capital Territory to be counted when determining whether a referendum had been passed. If that feeling of affinity is so deep, the people of New South Wales should be given the opportunity to take to their chests the people who live outside that 10 square miles which include the parliamentary triangle. 
In looking at the historical beginnings of the Northern Territory and at the decision to create that Territory, we recall that this action was motivated by the difficulties that were created by transport problems. In this latter quarter of the 20th century those problems have diminished and have now passed. It is time for this Government to legislate to return those 40 000 voters who live in the Northern Territory to their rightful place, which is as part of South Australia. 
-Whether we be in the north or the south, we are all Australians. I wish the honourable member for Grayndler would understand that no matter where we come from in this country we are all the same. Regrettably, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  a southern seat, is bringing great pressure upon me to conclude my address. The suggestions I have made tonight are an easy way out for the Federal Government. The people of Queensland are not pleased at all about certain proposals that have been made in the past. In 1974 every proposal received a large 'no' vote in Queensland. I wish only for the success of the proposals contained in these Bills and suggest that the proposition be put that section 125 of the Constitution be altered to reduce the Australian Capital Territory from 100 square miles to 10 square miles. I suggest also that we should take action within this Parliament to repeal past Acts and so ensure the return of the Northern Territory to its rightful place, that is, as part of South Australia, and allow the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  to represent that area of Australia, as did his earlier predecessors in this place. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is the Minister aware that in the financial year 1975-76, 12 996 Commonwealth repatriation, social security and taxation cheques were handed over to the Commonwealth Police as cases of forgery and uttering cheques under section 67b of the Crimes Act 1 975 and that in most instances the cheques were stolen from letter boxes, from boarding houses or by finding as a result of misdelivery of mail? Is the Minister aware that in the first 7 months of that financial year 6912 cheques were stolen and that in the first 7 months of this financial year this figure has increased to 10 450, a 51 per cent jump in one year? Is the Minister aware that whilst it is hard to place a value on these cheques because these figures are not kept, a random selection of one hundred - 
I think that the Opposition must have made a New Year's resolution to look ferocious in 1977. But if Opposition members intend to look ferocious they must back up their comment in this chamber with substance. The opposition which haS just been put forward to clause 10 is simply humbug because, as was explained in the second reading speech on this Bill, the 7 year rninimum requirement for a redistribution is justified when we look at the historical record in this country of when redistributions have taken place. We are told that 7 years is too long a span of time, but when we examine the record we see that, with the exception of the occasional State redistribution, one national redistribution was carried out in 1 906, one in 1 9 1 3, one in 1 922, one in 1934, one in 1949, one in 1955, one in 1968, and we are about to carry out one this year. That means that we have had only 8 redistributions in the 76 years since Federation. On average that means that we have had one distribution every 9 years. 
Yet Opposition supporters have the audacity to stand up here this afternoon and this evening, and in the Senate yesterday afternoon and yesterday evening, and put forward token opposition by saying that this 7 year clause is precluding the workings of democracy in Australia. The fact is that, based on history in this country, this clause is quite sensible. I reject completely the tacit opposition- I described it before as humbugthat has been put forward here tonight. If you teach a galah to say often enough that Polly likes crackers, everyone begins to believe that Polly likes crackers. All of the performing and the grandstanding by honourable members opposite as to the unfairness of the redistribution proposals in the Commonwealth Electoral Act as it stands today, and as it has stood in the past, is simply a case of Polly liking crackers; if you say it often enough some people will believe you. 
I believe that the electoral record of this country indicates that the vast majority of Australians have rejected the concept that the Labor Party has struggled for three-quarters of a century on unfair boundaries. The Labor Party has had it fair all right; it has just been its performance which has kept it for some 60 years on the Opposition benches. I remember that the former honourable member for Grayndler told people to vote early and vote often. That was his idea of democracy. On that note I conclude my comments. 
Many of the things said by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  have left members in this House aghast. Many have left the chamber because of the types of comments he made. I am amazed at his reference to the seat of Kalgoorlie not having special problems. He represents 1442 square kilometres and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie represents 2 271 379 square kilometres. If the honourable member does not think that people in rural areas have troubles I simply do not think he has any capacity to sit in this chamber and to even represent metropolitan people let alone talk about the country folk. I am told by one of my colleagues that the closest thing to a country affair that the honourable member has seen was a visit, as a very young man, to the Chelsea Flower Show. Outside that he has never had any connection with rural problems. 
I speak as a metropolitan member. I believe that the Labor Party and many people in this country have been hung up by folklore on this question of one vote, one value. Listening to the honourable member it is obvious that lie has never really examined the history of the tolerance provided above the quota in city seats and the tolerance provided below the quota in country electorates. I have figures here relating to the last 5 distributions of which only three have, in fact, been effected by the Parliament. In 1948 out of a total of 121 seats- honourable members should not forget that this was an Australian Labor Party redistribution- all but 15 of the seats were within the 10 per cent margin. In 1955- another successful redistribution; this time carried out by this side of the House- all but eight of the 122 seats were within the 10 per cent margin. In 1962- a redistribution which lapsed- 1 1 seats out of a total of 120 seats were outside the margin. In 1968 a total of 33 seats was outside the 10 per cent margin. Honourable members might be saying: 'Ha, ha, the number of seats outside the margin is growing'. 
Let us look at the historical list. I refer to my own seat of Griffith in Queensland which the Labor Party, to its eternal shame, tried to redistribute out of existence in 1974-75. My seat was above the 10 per cent margin. It had the highest voting population after redistribution in 1968. It was correctly classified as an electorate with a diminishing population. It is not that everybody wanted to leave the electorate that I represent. But the facts are that there was a growth in industry and the residential area and population diminished. The Electoral Commissioners in Queensland recognised this factor at that time. 
From listening to members of the OppositionI carry no brief for the National Country Party- one would gain the impression that every time there is a redistribution members of the National Country Party are so heavily favoured that it is a matter for us to stand up in this chamber and continually express indignation. When we look back at the history of the guidelines of redistribution we find that in 1965-as I correctly reminded the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-3  new factors were added. The first was the trend of population changes within the States. That was a sensible move. Even the Labor Government in 1975 decided that that guideline should stay, but the Labor Party eliminated the guideline concerning density or sparsity of population of a division. The Labor Party also eliminated the guideline concerning the area of a division. It is all very well for the honourable member for Burke, who has an electorate of 1442 square kilometres, to stand up and condemn the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  or rather more directly the people of Kalgoorlie when that electorate covers some  2Va  million square kilometres, or to condemn the people of the electorate of Kennedy in Queensland. This is another example of how the honourable member for Burke does not care less about the people from far-flung areas. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  represents an area of almost 641 000 square kilometres. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  represents an area of 406 000 square kilometres. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  represents an area of 503 000 square kilometres. According to the honourable member for Burke those members have no particular problems. 
All the Government is doing, after considerable discussion and agreement amongst the coalition parties, is recognising that the people in those areas which are at least 4 times the size of the electorate of the honourable member for Burke, do have some kind of a problem and intends inserting a clause which states that no seats which are larger than 5 000 square kilometres shall have a population larger than the smallest seat in, for instance, a city area. I do not regard that as unreasonable. I am very pleased that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  who represents the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  is present. The only weakness that I see is that the composition of some seats, such as McPherson, which covers the Gold Coast, and Bowman in Queensland and some seats in other States will make it difficult for the distribution commissioners to bring those seats down to the lowest possible number, bearing in mind that they are fast growing areas. 
There is perfection in hardly anything, least of all the Australian Labor Party as a government. I hope that the Attorney-General will take this point back to the ministry and say that the honourable member for Griffith certainly raised a most pertinent point. I think it really is about the only weakness in this Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  spent a great deal of time condemning the amendment to section 25 of the principal Act. He made special reference to the fact that 7 years must elapse before another redistribution takes place. He suggested that this was an unfortunate inclusion or alteration because the frequency of redistribution would be badly affected. I think that we should look at history to see how frequently redistributions have taken place. History highlights the weakness of the arguments of the Leader of the Opposition. If we disregard the redistribution in 1900, before the Commonwealth Parliament was officially proclaimed, and if we exclude those rare occasions such as in 1974 when a redistribution took place in Western Australia alone, generally speaking there were successful redistributions in 1906, 1913, 1922, 1934, 1949, 1955 and 1968. There was a gap of 12 years between the 1922 redistribution and the 1934 redistribution, and a gap of 15 years between the 1934 redistribution and the 1949 redistribution. 
-Let us include 1977. Since federation, since we became a Commonwealth, we have had only 8 redistributions in 76 years. Yet the Leader of the Opposition cited as totally unsatisfactory the proposition that there shall not be a redistribution more frequently than every 7 years. 
That amendment has been included to protect the Parliament from the situation which has arisen as a result of the recent High Court findings which may otherwise have had the effect of a redistribution being carried out every 3 or 4 years. With great respect to members of the Opposition, I believe that I can include them when I say that parliamentarians and the population simply would not know then in which electorate they were living, who their representative was or where they were going. None of us, whether we are Labor, National Party or Liberal, would want a redistribution every 3 or 4 years. That would be hoisted upon us by virtue of the recent High Court findings. I was quite surprised that a person of the standing of the Leader of the 
Opposition, who frequently commands my respect- it was only when he was Prime Minister that that subsided considerably- was so groping to put together a form of words to oppose this Bill that he fell into such a basic error. 
I assure the honourable member for Corio, who suggested that I did not support it in the Party room, that he is incorrect. I did support it in the Party room. I would be less than honest if I did not admit that I was quite pleased to see removed the other factor which gave a weighting of 20 per cent to some seats. This happens in the Liberal-Country Party room. I embrace and support the 10 per cent concept. The view which I held in the Party room was later endorsed by the Government, when the amendment was made to the original proposal. That shows that in the Liberal and National Country parties democracy has a very good chance of working. 
I believe that this redistribution is necessary. One has only to listen to speakers on the other side of the House, as they cite the disparity in the population of electorates, to realise that. I support this legislation. I honestly wonder why the official Opposition in this chamber is opposed to it An examination of the facts indicates that this great weighting, which is claimed to be directed to all country people, in reality does not exist to the extent which is claimed. Unfortunately, people are made to believe it does, as a result of the exaggeration and publicity which this attracts. I support the legislation in its entirety. The Minister might convey to the Minister for Administrative Services that all members of  this  House would like to see the redistribution got underway as soon as possible so that before next Christmas we will know exactly where we are going as far as our electorates are concerned. 
-I give notice that on some future general business day I shall move - 
If the Archbishop of Canterbury or the Pope were to say that God was dead, the very high offices that those 2 gentlemen hold would justify prominence in reporting their statement. If a man in the street were to say that God was dead, it would not be reported. I refer to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's news service last evening. Those who fortunately or unfortunately saw it would recall that the opening segment related to the visit to Canberra of the Queen. The matter I raise this evening is a protest. In a crowd of say 5000 to 7000 people, all but about 100 were there to display their affection and loyalty to our monarch. Some 50 per cent to 55 per cent of the ABC news segment last night relating to the Queen's visit to the national capital was dedicated to the activities of a group that represented between 1 per cent and 2 per cent of the actual crowd. The ABC on this occasion, as it has on previous occasions, has magnified the presence of larrikins and louts who I concede are entitled to an opinion. But it has magnified their presence far beyond the actual proportion that they represented at the gathering. If there be those who doubt the accuracy of my claim I ask them to read today's newspapers which reported their presence more in perspective than did the ABC. 
I believe that the ABC should stand for at least 3 things: A for accuracy in reporting; B for balance in presentation; and C for consistency. Because one is a commission or one belongs to an organisation that is a commission it does not mean that that commission or organisation is given licence to behave recklessly and irresponsibly. The ABC is fortunate in that those who have the power to approve the finance that allows the Commission to function have little time to watch over its activities. Generally we have to rely on public reports and it is hard to judge secondhand information. 
I recall my own efforts last year to make a judgment of a program called  Late Line.  I had a number of protests in respect of this program and I asked the ABC on 2 occasions to provide me with a transcript. That request was treated with complete and utter contempt. I would say that an auntie has a very special position in the hearts of all. An auntie can get away with much. But let me warn this nation's most careless aunt that if she is going to tamper with the truth she will create an enemy in me and others on this side of the House who will make her life less than pleasant. 
Through the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  who is at the table, I would urge that my request be conveyed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson);  namely, that if the Minister did not see the program itself, he take steps to view the news segment last night and if he comes to the only conclusion he can- the one that I have reached that the program was reported without balance, without accuracy and without consistencyhe bring before him the commissioners of the ABC and warn them. The Minister should tell the commissioners that they have been charged with responsibilities and if they do not carry out those responsibilities as they should be carried out this Government will have no hesitation whatsoever in removing them and replacing them with people who will do the job properly, a job paid for by the public purse. He should tell them that the finance that they cringed and crawled to have increased in recent months will be curtailed to ensure that their activities are commensurate with the financial assistance they deserve. Frankly, the ABC made an unbalanced attack on a tradition and institution which is very, very dear to the great majority of Australians. I resent the unfair and unfactual way in which last night's coverage was presented. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as you and  Mr Speaker  would know, the Camerons have had a very distinguished historical involvement in the direction of the British monarchy. Many 
Camerons were in the thick of the Jacobite uprisings in Scotland in 1715 and 1719, following the assignment of the English throne to the House of Hanover. There would not have been the famous 1745 uprising without Donald Cameron the Young Lochiel who, against his better judgment, but motivated by loyalty, raised the Highlanders to retrieve the throne for Prince Charles. Following the battle of Culloden and the atrocities of the Duke of Cumberland, as far as it can be proved, my direct ancestor, Cameron of Glen Nevis fled to Guiana, his lands in Scotland having been confiscated. It was about 1850 that his grandson, my great grandfather made his way from Berbice Guiana, to Ipswich in Queensland. On St Patrick's Day it is appropriate to mention that he married a Mary Milner from County Cork, Ireland. 
Why do I mention this in this House today? Like Donald Cameron of Lochiel who had a loyalty to the throne of Prince Charles, I today have a loyalty to the mother of another Prince Charles, Elizabeth II, Queen of Australia. With the presence of  Her  Majesty in Australia, it is timely then in this Parliament. derived as it is from the Westminster system and the British Parliament that I should desire to speak on the value and importance of the monarchy to Australia. On 2 May 1968, 1 became the first in this Parliament to advocate a new national anthem. I expressed the view then, to which I still hold firmly today: 
Our national anthem should represent a mixture of both Queen and country. 
It is ironic that  Hansard  records an Australian Labor Party member interjecting: 
What is wrong with the present one? 
I do not find myself in violent disagreement with the sentiment being expressed by that member, but I hold the view that the sense of nationalism and identity in this country deserves recognition. I sought from the Parliamentary Library the date of the last full speech made in this House on the desirability of the retention of the monarchy and our Westminster system. I was informed that it would have required a huge research effort to obtain that information, but the Library checked with identities who have been around this place for many years, and the advice is that no one can recall such a speech having been made for many, many years. How so much is taken for granted, and how things have changed. 
When considering the monarchy and our constitution, it is appropriate that we compare it at work in the country which gave birth to the Westminster system. Against the background of recent Australian politics, argument has developed that the Monarch, or her representative, must be excluded from every area of political involvement, with the consequence, so the argument goes, that if this happens, it becomes unnecessary that there be a head of state within our political system. Such is the fragile fabric of the assertion of those who today are espousing a republic. 
Let me then canvass some of the history of the involvement of the British Monarch in the politics of the United Kingdom. There have been occasions this century when the British Monarch has been forced to become involved, in Britain, in matters of a politically controversial nature. In 1909 the House of Lords rejected the Budget. This action was followed in 1910 by the introduction of the Parliament Bill. That Bill caused conflict. The then Liberal Government requested the King, George V, to create a larger number of peers so that the Conservative majority in the Lords would be outvoted. The Liberals saw this as a way of ensuring passage of their Budget. The King, subject to conditions, agreed to Asquith's Liberal Government's demand. The Conservatives attacked the Liberal Government when this became known, and they blamed that Government for giving the Monarch unconstitutional advice. The point is that the King acted upon advice from his Government and imposed his view that this would be done only if the Lords were still resistant after a second general election returned the Liberal Government. 
In 1931 during the term of a British Labour government, George V was again required to be involved in a difficult political decision. Following the financial crisis of that year, which precipitated the fall of the Labour Government headed by Prime Minister James Ramsay MacDonald, the King followed strict constitutional practice and sought to determine a future government for Britain. With MacDonald 's approval, he spoke with Baldwin, Leader of the Conservatives, and  Sir Herbert  Samuel, a Privy Councillor and Acting Leader of the Liberal Party.  Mr MacDonald  had advised the King that a number of Labour MPs would follow him. The King ascertained that all 3 leaders were prepared to form a coalition, a national government under the leadership of  Mr MacDonald,  and they did. At the following election in 1935, the number of Labour Party members was reduced from 258 to 52. The dramatic reduction was due principally to the British people blaming the Socialist Labour Party for the effects of the depression. It can also be argued the reduction was caused in part by the association of a number of distinguished Labour Ministers with the coalition. The bitterness that developed in the Labour Party following the decision to create a coalition government may have been avoided if Baldwin and Lloyd George had been requested to form a coalition government in their own right. Had the King sought the views of other Ministers of the defeated MacDonald Government, he may well have more readily seen the extent of ill will his decision would cause. Nevertheless there was nothing unconstitutional in his decision, and he acted after taking advice from Prime Minister MacDonald and after consulting with the 2 leaders of the other political parties. The Monarch is also an initiator. It was George V who successfully sought to bring together the British party leaders to discuss at least the Irish question following the Liberal Government's Bill granting home rule to Ireland. Agreement was not reached, but, the King did initiate discussions with the political leaders. 
In 1975, our Governor-General, the Queen's representative, initiated discussions with the then Prime Minister Whitlam and with Opposition Leader Fraser. That discussion came to nought, but was held. This local example, with a British precedent, serves to highlight the advantage of the presence of a Head of State of the status of the Monarch or her representative. Students of more recent British history will have found mentioned in ministerial autobiographies instances wherein George VI is alleged to have raised procedural questions with his Ministers, and, when the response was based upon a firm and logical foundation, he accepted with good grace the ministerial view. By so doing, the Monarch advised and warned, but ensured he avoided controversy. This is essential to the success and continuity of the monarchy and the Constitution. A King or Queen must be seen as doing no wrong and the logical extension of this, as far as we in Australia are concerned, is that a Governor-General also must be seen as doing no wrong. But just as George V was forced on at least 2 occasions to intervene in the politics of the nation, so is the Queen's representative in Australia, by the very essence and the framework of our Constitution, forced to intervene at critical times in the affairs of our nation. I believe our Governor-General could well have been praying during October and early November 1975 that the political and constitutional crisis which existed in this country would resolve itself at Parliament House so that he could avoid involvement in controversy, but when it did not, he was bound to act. 
I will defend in normal circumstances the right of any government of the day to dictate the date of an election, but in our case a deadlock existed. It was our Constitution which forced the Governor-General to take the decision he took- to allow every free man and woman of sane mind an opportunity to decide that issue by way of a democratic election. One cannot blame the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  for holding out in the hope that the then Opposition senators would abandon their stand, but in retrospect even the most politically biased must admit his proposal for a half-Senate election would have simply served to prolong the national crisis and agony. History will condemn those who have sought to portray  Sir John  Kerr as a political manipulator. Indirectly, they are portraying the Monarch as a political manipulator. How one can say in one breath,' Well may we say God save the Queen' and in the next, 'because nothing will save the Governor-General' is beyond my comprehension as they are indivisible in a constitutional sense. 
I do not enter into debate on this occasion on the question of an upper House having the right to frustrate a government by deferring a money Bill. This is a matter relating to the spirit of our Constitution and not to the powers of the Governor-General. I regard those who have seized the happenings of 1 1 November 1975 as the base for their campaign for a republic, as being unscrupulous, intellectually dishonest and unfair because with our Constitution, the republicans would have found that a scrupulous  President  would have had no other course to follow than that followed by the GovernorGeneral. At times one gains the impression pro.republicanists see a Prime Minister fulfilling the role of King. I would hope that those who fiercely espouse that cause at least understand that in our system the Monarch or  Her  representative has a role with far greater implications than simply supplying Royal Patronage to the highly regarded Red Cross Society and others. At times I have my doubts. British history has evolved a Monarchy divested of virtually all active influence in daily politics, but the Monarchy is much more than a simple expression of history. If some Australians had queried prior to 1975 the need for a GovernorGeneral in a country that had lacked problems, it would have been understandable. The answer to their questioning would have been that because the affairs of State have gone smoothly, (notwithstanding problems such as inflation, unemployment and Vietnam) there is no guarantee that the situation will continue. There is always the chance that the Monarch, through the Governor-General may be called upon one day to fulfill his constitutional role beyond simply giving royal assent to Bills. However our system is under challenge today for an opposite reason, and that challenge can be regarded only as a manifestation of wrongly directed political disappointment. 
A Governor-General, King, Queen or even a non-political  President  scrupulously carrying out duties defined by a Constitution should not, and must not, be confronted by political and public demonstrations. Man has always sought someone or something to look up to- something above or beyond himself. Accordingly, he has developed systems whereby he has provided himself with a leader or ruler and varying institutions. The rights and wrongs of this are beside the point; all the evidence of history reflects it as a part of the human condition. Where man has deviated, he has invariably provided himself with another leader, ruler or institution to replace the one removed. The alternative to a constitutional Monarchy is a republic, oligarchy, anarchy or dictatorship. It is the republican cause being espoused and advocated today so let us examine that. 
A republican  President  can be appointed for a specific term or even a lifetime. He can be selected by a government. He can be elected by members of Parliament, as was the case in France up until 1962. He can be elected by the people, as is the  President  of the United States of America, and as is now the French  President.  The  President  may have the appearance of simply a figurehead with seemingly limited powers, or have vested in him powers of great magnitude, like that of the  President  of the United States. Conversely, I do not think the vast majority of Australians want a  president  who is but a puppet of the Prime Minister and politicians. 
In the French Republic the  President,  crowned by popular election and no doubt expecting deference, enjoys the normal prerogatives of a head of State. He appoints the Prime Minister, presides over the Cabinet, promulgates laws, and signs the Orders and Decrees, I wonder if those who are so convinced the Governor-General should not have the power to do as was done in 1975, are aware that the French  President  can also dismiss the Prime Minister, and even dissolve the Parliament. General De Gaulle, like  Sir John  Kerr in 1975, dissolved the French Parliament in 1 962 and again in 1 968. So the French system may not be the answer for Australian republicans. 
Alternatively do Australians want a republican system like the United States, where even with congressional constraints, enormous power is in the hands of one man? They do not want a presidential-style Prime Minister. Which of these 2 systems do the republicans suggest is suitable for Australia? The Westminster system is tried, proven and strong, with as Head of State, the Monarch who is the esteemed non-party Representative of the Nation as a whole. 
Most republicans will agree that there is a need for a head of State, but difference of opinion exists as to the system which will provide the most suitable Head of State. It is argued that a bad Monarch is there for a lifetime, whereas a President can be changed. In an extreme case, pressure could be brought to bear to encourage a Monarch's abdication. However, fair-minded people must be agreed that the 20th century has produced most acceptable British Monarchs The same cannot be said for all the 20th century Presidents of the handful of countries that I have mentioned today. 
Undoubtedly, some proponents for the Republican cause would be motivated by a belief that Australia should appear to the world to be a country standing entirely upon its own feet. Because we have as our Head of State the British Monarch, and we use the Westminister Parliamentary system, it cannot be fairly construed that we even remotely resemble a colony. We are a member of the Commonwealth, but that does not make us a lackey of the United Kingdom. Indeed when the present Queen became its head - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member time has expired. 
That the honourable member for Griffith be granted an extension of time. 
In doing so I do not want it thought that I am anything but long suffering. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I appreciate the courtesy extended to me. I would hope that in the remaining minutes the honourable member for Adelaide might be more convinced than he has been so far. 1 was saying that because we have had as our head of state the British monarch, and we use the Westminster parliamentary system, it cannot be fairly construed that we even remotely resemble a colony. We are a member of the Commonwealth, but that does not make us a lackey of the United Kingdom. Indeed, when the present Queen became its head it had 8 members; six of them are still members and it now has 37 members.  Her  Majesty is Queen of twelve of them. This in no way implies British interference, because the governments of the various countries have the exclusive right to advise the Queen on their own affairs, and in our case our own affairs. The crown provides a link between the countries of the Commonwealth which could not be as well, if at all, provided by an elected  President.  Further, it is fallacious to suggest that the retention of a Monarchy, with roots in a past imperial era, in any way maintains a sense of obedience from a colony. The voluntary composition of the Commonwealth testifies to that. Those who crave for identity, and see a republic as representing that identity, often display gross inconsistencies. When the previous Government abandoned imperial honours and introduced the Order of Australia, investiture remained the task of our monarch. If that republican crusader, Professor Manning Clark, were a true republican, he would not have been present at Government House last week to receive his O.A. from the Queen. But it has been observed: 
Even the most eminent scholars lose their sureness of touch when they enter the presence of royalty. 
The very nature of politics ensures a legacy and the provision of day-to-day happenings which by their very nature generate divisiveness. The unity stimulated by a monarch is invaluable in counterbalancing this. We are thankful the United States survived Watergate, but the path to recovery was long and tortuous. The psychoanalyst biographer of Sigmund Freud,  Dr Ernest  Jones, capped it so well when he contended that the dignified and efficient tasks of government must be divided between 2 persons. I quote him: 
One untouchable, irremovable and sacrosanct, above even criticism, let alone attack, the other vulnerable in such a degree that sooner or later he will surely be destroyed, i.e. expelled from his position of power. 
The history of our very young federation bears witness to the truth of that. Even today, our newspapers speculate on the future of one national political giant. The monarchy is the possession of the people regardless of political affiliation or association. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is to be complimented for initiating in 1975 the invitation to our Queen to join us in the year of the Silver Jubilee of her accession to the throne. I also thank him. The parliamentary democracy we have modelled ours upon is one of a mixture derived from fierce and bloody struggle, peaceful development, and evolution over several centuries. 
That simple Bill called Supply is the basis of our Parliament's power. Indeed, this Parliament sustains the monarch's representative by grants of public money by the Appropriation Bill. Our Parliament is supreme. No republic has a parliament of greater authority than ours and no monarchy in the world commands more respect or is more secure than ours. This is no time to advocate change. This is a time for rejoicing in the strength of our political institutions, at the very heart of which lies the monarchy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before calling the honourable member for Hawker might I point out that while the honourable member for Griffith was making some comments in regard to our Westminster system some honourable members entered the chamber without observing the standing order which has been commented on before from this chair. I have said previously that I think it might be an idea if some honourable members would remind themselves of that standing order. 
-My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, is partially supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Canberra and refers to the case initiated in the High Court by Queensland and Western Australia concerning the representation of the Territories in the Senate and the House of Representatives and the assurance of the Prime Minister that the Northern Territory is shortly destined for Statehood. Will the Attorney-General inform the House whether the proposal that section 125 of the Constitution be altered by referendum to allow the placement of all but, say, 15 to 20 square kilometres, which could be described as the parliamentary triangle of the Australian Capital Territory, into New South Wales is a viable proposition? Secondly, will the Attorney-General confirm whether this would mean that the citizens of the Australian 
Capital Territory could then vote in referendums and vote for and be represented by 10 senators- 
Alluding briefly to the comments of the previous  speaker,  one might say that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has always been a friendly and warm person. However, I suggest that should the system he advocated in the closing moments of his speech be introduced, contrary to the simplistic view that he holds there would be a great rush of people to this country from all over the world. At a time of very high unemployment, I do say with some respect and warmth that I believe his suggestion to be impractical. I am taking the opportunity to speak tonight in this debate for an entirely different reason, but before I deal with the subject I wish to canvass I should mention that I personally have been enriched in the last decade because I have had the privilege of representing the largest migrant community in any Federal electorate in the State of Queensland. In my electorate there are some 6000 Greeks, 1500 Italians, 2000 people of Russian origin, and a host of other nationalities. Coming from a true blue Australian background, with the possible taint of beer and the meat pie, I believe that mixing with these people has added greatly to my own make-up, and I am grateful to them for what they have given to me and what they have brought to this country. 
Enough of compliments. I wish tonight to raise a question which is rather indirectly connected with the subject we are debating. I want to question seriously the suitability of  Mr Grassby,  the Commissioner for Community Relations, to continue in that position. I do so because I believe that a person in his position should be regarded by the community as being able to administer a delicate task with balance and fairness, and without bias. It may not be  Mr Grassby's  fault, but he has given the community the distinct impression that he has a pre-occupation with the subject of racism to an extent which seriously impedes his judgment. Indeed, when he lost his seat in this Parliament in 1974 he blamed entirely the actions of a group which represents at most 1 per cent of the thinking in this country. The swing in 1 974 against  Mr Grassby  in the seat of Riverina was 7 per cent. He was one of 4 Australian Labor Party Federal members of Parliament who that year lost their seats in this House, but the only explanation he had was that he was the victim of a vicious racist campaign. There is not a truly rural Labor Party politician left in this House now. 
-The honourable member has a big mining centre in his electorate. I used the term truly 'rural'. I am not talking about miners; I am talking about farmerspeople who work with their hands and plough the fields. That is what we mean when we use the word 'rural'. The honourable member's misunderstanding of that word is very basic to the Labor Party's whole failure to grasp the problems of country people. As I was about to say, it was not because of racism but because of Labor Party policies. Such is the extent of  Mr Grassby  's overpowering awareness of race differences that his obsession with them blinds him. 
As I said before, I have a large migrant community in my electorate. I represent an electorate which is very diverse in relation to the countries of origin of its constituents. A huge percentage of the residents of the Griffith electorate have come to this country as migrants from many countries. They have many things in common with those people born in Australia. A question which I am frequently asked by people of all origins is this:  When are they going to replace  Mr Grassby?  He causes more problems than he settles'. That is a very widely held view in the community, and I repeat it: He causes more problems than he settles. I must allude to a current personal experience which reaches into new dimensions in what I regard as his unsuitability to hold down his position as Commissioner for Community Relations. 
-Mr Grassby is currently using his position of great, and almost unlimited, power to pursue an issue under the guise of seeking racial harmony when his motives are blatantly political. He has chosen to ride on the back of a tiger and, in my view, he should end up inside it. 
For the information of the House I wish to relate an incident which commenced on 9 February this year when I claimed in Brisbane that a group of Aborigines had formed a cooperative to steal pension and social security cheques from letterboxes. That comment was reported in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of 9 February, and the article goes on to state: 
He said the group was moving into several Brisbane suburbs and using children to follow postmen and steal the cheques. 

 Mr Don Cameron, Liberal Member for Griffith, said cheques for thousands of dollars were being stolen each week. 
He said information about the group had been given to him by an 'extremely good source'. He said the group made their white criminal counterparts look like amateurs. 

 Mr Cameron warned businessmen that the Social Security Department would not take responsibility if they cashed stolen cheques. 
Reserve Bank cheques are not as safe as a bar of gold, as many people believe ' he said. 
That was the comment I made, and it was made in that way for 2 reasons. Firstly, the group which I had every reason to believe existed was easily identifiable and, secondly, it was a warning to the business community that that sort of activity was well and truly on in Brisbane. Two days later when the Parliament was still in recess I, as a responsible member of this House, wrote to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  suggesting that there was a need to reexamine the system of issuing cheques. I wrote in these terms: 
Nevertheless, it is my view that we as a government owe it to individuals, who might be enticed into a life of crime, to make it more difficult by not putting temptation in their way. 
I suggested that the whole system be immediately re-examined. Following that,  Senator Colston,  a Labor senator from Queensland, called on me to retract my comments and to apologise to the Aboriginal community. He claimed that because I had said that a group of Aborigines had formed a co-operative or a group I had insulted an entire race. This is absolutely ridiculous. I shall state for the benefit of the House the extent of cheque stealing in Australia at the present time. The figures for the first 7 months of the 1975-76 financial year indicate that throughout Australia 6912 cheques were stolen from letterboxes. 
-Very well,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I abide by your wise ruling. I was not saying for a moment that the increase in the number of cheques stolen from 6912 cheques to 10 450 cheques, could be attributed to the actions of Aborigines; far from it. It was a pattern which was developing in this country- an overall increase of 5 1 per cent in the number of cheques stolen in 12 months involving an amount of approximately $3m. That is why I was concerned about this subject. I shall move along with my speech. This  Senator Colston  of the Australian Labor Party from the other House continued to whip up political feelings in Queensland under the guise of being concerned that Aborigines had been gravely insulted. I believe my statements to be correct. They will be borne out. At this moment 8 people are in the remand section of the Brisbane prison and will come to trial in a few days time. They happen to be Aborigines. They happen to have been working as a group. Every accusation I made will be proven to be correct. I derive no pleasure from being right on this matter - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I apologise for that. I seriously doubt whether the point is worth argument. The point is that if I am proven right, I will derive no pleasure. But I believe that I had a responsibility to the Australian taxpayer and I do not believe I have offended any group. I wish to elaborate upon my claims about  Mr Grassby.  Because I refused to apologise,  Senator Colston  then took the unprecedented action of contacting one,  Mr Grassby.  Here was a Labor senator contacting a former ALP State member of Parliament and a former ALP Minister and member of this House. I said at the time I felt a little like a Christian going before Idi Amin. That is exactly how I felt, knowing  Mr Grassby  's background. On 6 April 1977 I received from  Mr Grassby,  the Commissioner for Community Relations, a letter in which he outlined certain procedures that he had undertaken and gave me certain advice as to procedures I should follow. I sent him a telegram dated 12 April 1977 which read as follows: 
Your courteous letter of 6 April received. If this is a matter which comes under your jurisdiction, the Act should be changed. I have no intention of communicating with yourself or anybody in your office concerning a matter which under section 21 can only be considered trivial, vexatious, not made in good faith and, in my words, blatantly political. 
I believe that this Commissioner- a man with a highly political background- has used his position to persecute somebody of a different political persuasion. The Racial Discrimination Act 1975 states clearly that the Commissioner should throw out a complaint if he believes the complaint to be quite frivolous, vexatious or not made in good faith. By saying that I will not accept the Commissioner's directions, I place myself under section 27 of the Act, where I can be fined up to $500 because a person 'shall not insult, hinder, obstruct, molest or interfere with the Commissioner'. The Commissioner need not fear that I will ever desire to molest him but I have no hesitation in obstructing his inquiries on this occasion because I believe that his motivation is ill based. 
I notice that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is at the table. I am pleased he is here at this moment to hear what I have to say. I believe it is high time that  Mr Grassby  was brought to heel. I believe that on this occasion he has wrongly used the Act for political reasons. 
In the last couple of days we have witnessed Queenslanders in the Parliament endeavouring to present a case for the resiting of the runways at the Brisbane Airport. Yesterday, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  in proposing a debate on a matter of public importance made a contribution on this matter in the House. Unfortunately, that debate was cut off after only a few members had spoken in it. I am led to believe that tonight the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  also made a contribution on this subject matter. I do not want to let this occasion pass without associating myself with the most worthy cause. Regrettably yesterday this subject became highly political when the shadow Minister for Transport tried to blame the present Government for the nonactivity in this field. 
Very briefly, I want to recapitulate the history of the matter and remind honourable members that it was in 1972 that the then McMahon Government gave the green light to the advancement and the reconstruction of the Brisbane Airport. Unfortunately, in 1973 in its endeavours to save money so it could spend it everywhere else the Whitlam Government, on the advice which was tendered in the Coombs report, scrapped the allocation of money for the reconstruction of the Brisbane Airport. Labor is to blame. But that does not mean that now we are back in office there is any excuse for us to do nothing. I hope that the assurances we have had from the Minister - 
I hear the honourable member for Oxley speaking on this subject for the first time. We have never heard him speak about the Brisbane Airport before. 
-The honourable member just said that he is not going to speak on it. However, I will not allow myself to be distracted on this subject. I know that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has given an assurance that the matter is being carefully considered right now. I know that every Queensland member of Parliament, perhaps even the silent member for Oxley, has one purpose in mind in coming to this Parliament; that is to ensure that Brisbane, the northern capital, the capital of the 
State of the future, has a new airport. Everywhere else in Australia, airports seem to have sprouted like mushrooms, but regrettably Queensland has been left sitting like Cinderella without the provision of this service. 
Previous speakers in the debate have talked about all the technical aspects of the need for a new airport. They are very important aspects. Of course, if we are to move into the 1980s with the capability of handling the jets, the long jets, the wide jets and the fat jets we need proper facilities. The third largest capital city in Australia deserves these facilities. As a matter of fact, if we keep advancing in the north the way in which we are advancing now, we could well become the largest capital in Australia at the turn of the next century. I want to mention very briefly the human aspects of this problem. The people who live under the flight paths of the huge jets are subjected to a noise which is so penetrating that if the Minister for Transport or even the shadow Minister for Transport who sits opposite were subjected to it, I do not doubt for a moment they would up and off and change their address. The noise is devastating. 
I have been talking about this subject for years. On one occasion I even endeavoured to play a cassete recording of the noise to show the Parliament just how bad it is. Let me assure every member of the House, particularly country members and the honourable member for Oxley who lives in Ipswich and who never hears more than the mooing of the cows and the odd whistle of a train, that this noise is distracting. I make a plea through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the Queensland Minister for Post and Telecommunications, and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),who  comes from the Gold Coast, to ensure that the Minister for Transport becomes aware that Queenslanders will not relent in their pursuit of a new airport for the third largest capital city in this country. I know that we have the support of the Minister at the table. I am sure that with this very high position as Minister assisting the Treasurer he has a lot of influence and will be able to ensure the allocation of finance to provide the airport which was about to be provided. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at 10.59 p.m. 
-I wish to express some concern at the fact that the Opposition had set down Wednesday 1 June as the date to settle the leadership strife which currently exists within that Party. I wonder whether the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  is being fair in suddenly bringing the meeting date back one day. We know that in the last few days the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has indicated that he will nominate for the  Deputy  Leadership of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  will do the same. I think the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is also expected to be a last minute surprise nomination, as is the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is another honourable member who is allegedly a contender for high office in the Opposition. In view of the fact that so many members of the Opposition had set aside next Wednesday morning as the settling day, the day to remove the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  and also the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Uren,  I wonder whether it is fair for the Government to be so divisive as suddenly to place the Opposition in a position whereby it has to lurch on in the coming months with its present leadership, or alternatively to be faced with the problem of deciding the matter a day earlier. 
Motion (by  Mr Les  Johnson) agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to allegations made by me last February, which led to me being investigated by the Commissioner for Community Relations in which I said, simply for identification purposes, that an organised group of Brisbane Aboriginals had been stealing Government originated cheques in Brisbane. Have Commonwealth Police investigated the claims? Has evidence been forthcoming to bear witness to the truth of my assertions and hence get that other person off my back once and for all? 
I ask the Attorney-General: Is he aware that I have been under investigation by the Commissioner for Community Relations because I referred to a group of people within a particular race for identification and apprehension purposes? As my allegations subsequently have been proved correct and no malice was intended on my part, does my experience testify to the fact that the Racial Discrimination Act can in some instances work against the freedom and rights of everyone? Will the Minister consider altering the Act in order that a person who genuinely believes that he or she is being wrongly subjected to investigation has some recourse by way of appeal to someone other than the Commissioner for Community 
Relations against that investigation by the Commissioner who at present has sole discretion in determining whether someone is to be investigated? 
I intend reading into  Hansard  tonight a letter which I directed on 30 May to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  I do so in order that the record will never be twisted, misunderstood or misconstrued. The letter reads: 
My dear Minister, 
I write on behalf of  Mr and Mrs .  . . who complained to me about the activities of the Community Relations Commissioner, the  Hon.  A. Grassby. 

 Mr Grassby is reported in the Brisbane Telegraph of 20 April 1977 as claiming that generations of Japanese had been led to believe that "Australians were racists", and that they, the Japanese, had "been brought up on textbooks critical of the White Australia policy and our treatment of Aborigines." The newspaper report alleged that  Mr Grassby  claimed that even in newly produced Japanese textbooks, Australian characteristics were held to include "racial bias". 

 Mr Grassby was speaking at a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation seminar on teacher education. 
That seminar was held in Adelaide. My letter continues: 
Japanese born  Mrs .  . . , who has been an Australian resident since 1 939 and a citizen since 1 967, had been "distressed and annoyed" by the allegations. She has since checked with many visiting Japanese students, Japanese exchange students presently resident in our country and numerous visiting Japanese businessmen and their wives. She frequently acts as an interpreter for such groups as the latter. She has even written to school-going relations in Japan requesting evidence of  Mr Grassby  's allegations. 
The result gives her even more reason for distress and concern. All those questioned by her advise they have no knowledge of the existence of such textbooks and that it was untrue to say "generations of Japanese had been led to believe Australians were racists". In accordance with the Racial Discrimination Act, this amounts to a slur upon the Japanese. Besides, I have made my own enquiries. A young Japanese couple, friends of mine, lived with me in my Brisbane home for 15 months. They have no recollection of Australia being presented in their country of origin's textbooks and teachings as racist. 
Is  Mr Grassby  a student of Japanese? Can he actually provide sufficient examples, if any, of his allegations to sustain his all embracing claims? It is felt by some with whom I have since discussed this matter that this is but one more example of his being prepared to say anything for the sake of saying something to snatch media attention. 
On behalf of . . . , I formally lay the complaint that  Mr Grassby  has made racist statements reflecting upon the Japanese and detrimental to the country which gives him his $36,000 a year salary. I would appreciate your immediately commencing an investigation in accordance with the Racial Discriminauon Act, Part II, Section 9( 1 ). 
Yours sincerely, 
D.M.CAMERON, MP 
Member for Griffith 
The letter is now officially on record. Without questioning for a moment the motives of the people who laid the complaint with me, I believe this serves to highlight the need for a change to the present Act. 
During the recess a woman in Sydney wrote to me drawing my attention to the state of the grave of Australia 's first Prime Minister,  Sir Edmund  Barton. As a result of that I paid a visit to that grave in the South Head Cemetary. I found it to be in a very neglected condition, with all the lettering- not just the paint- worn off. The passage of time had worn away the lettering. It was simply a stone which showed his name. One could decipher on the second line reference to the fact that he had been Australia's first Prime Minister. Beyond that one could not read anything else. As a result of this my interest was aroused. Over the following weeks I set about investigating the condition of the graves of the other 14 Prime Ministers who have died. I have here a summary of my findings. The honourable member ibr Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who has just spoken, gave me permission to incorporate the summary in  Hansard.  That would save a lot of time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Did he receive a deluge of representations from me and from other members of the House of Representatives and senators expressing alarm at the proposed takeover of Queensland's Provincial Traders Limited by the foreign owned George Weston Foods Ltd? Has the Treasurer examined how the Foreign Investment Review Board ever approved such a bid? Is he able to tell the House whether he regards the situation as such that he has no alternative but to use his reserve powers to overrule the Board 's recommendations? 
My comments will be more temperate than those of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  I assure him that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  holds no fear of anything which the previous  speaker  may have said. On 18 August I made a speech during the adjournment debate. 
-At least I am not rotting in limbo. That interruption was most uncalled for but that is the tendency of the honourable member for Oxley who aspires to be leader- irrational, erratic and unpredictable- of his party. But I put that aside. As I was about to say, on 18 August I spoke in the House about how the Commonwealth Government was not caring for the graves of deceased Prime Ministers. I speak tonight for the sake of the record and so that I might have the opportunity to thank the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  for the manner in which he has responded to my detailed request for attention to be given to the neglected graves. 
The Minister has agreed that the Government will, subject to the availability of funds and the agreement of the families, accept full responsibility for the maintenance of the graves and, where appropriate and necessary, erect suitable plaques. A reference to  Hansard  of 18 August will show that a number of these graves are virtually unmarked. I am pleased to relate that this situation will be rectified. The Minister has further assured me that because of the worn away wording on the gravestone of our first Prime Minister,  Sir Edmund  Barton, that stone will be re-engraved. He further informed me that the plaques which will be erected will bear the nation's coat of arms and mention that the remains are those of a former Prime Minister. The plaque will bear the dates that that person served as Prime Minister, et cetera. The Minister has assured me that a cairn and plaque will be erected eventually at Portsea explaining the significance of the plaque recording Harold Holt's tragic death. The present plaque is visible only at low tide. 
-As the Whip has said, good Lord. The Minister has also assured me that in the case of Stanley Melbourne Bruce, whose ashes were spread across Lake Burley Griffin in 1967, a cairn will be erected beside Lake Burley Griffin with a plaque recording the fact that that Prime Minister s remains were placed in the lake as his final wish. 
Andrew Fisher, a great Labor man and a Prime Minister from Queensland, and  Sir George  Reid are the only two Prime Ministers out of the 15 deceased who are buried overseas. The Minister has agreed that their relatives will be contacted and, if they are in agreement and if there are no problems in the United Kingdom in relation to reburial in Australia, their remains will be brought home to the land that they once led. I conclude where I commenced, and that is by thanking the Minister for having been responsive and for having displayed sensitivity to a very delicate subject. I believe that the decision will be to the ultimate satisfaction of the nation. 

 - Mr Speaker, on looking at the Constitution I find that section 125 refers to the establishment of a capital  territory no  closer than 100 miles from Sydney. If one looks back to our early history one finds that the only reason the Australian Capital Territory was established was to satisfy the jealousies which existed between Victoria and New South Wales. It was agreed that this Territory would be established to meet the needs or rather whims of those 2 States. We have seen the Territory grow in its splendour over the years and today we have a flourishing city and Territory. 
Previously in this House I have proposed the concept of changing section 125 of the Constitution in order that the Australian Capital Territory might be placed back in New South Wales. I have a very firm view about this, a view which has been commended by people in almost every State, namely, that there is no need whatsoever to keep up a duplication of the bureaucracy and the forms of government that are necessary simply to look after the needs of only a quarter of a million people. Everywhere I go in Australia, except in New South Wales, people come to me and say: 'I agree with your formula for the Australian Capital Territory'. People in New South Wales come to me and say: 'What have we done wrong?' New South Wales is the only State that is opposed to the idea; the rest are totally in favour of it. 
We talk about cutting down government expenditure, and I believe that we can start right here in Canberra. There is absolutely no need for a small population to have its own parliamentary system and a duplication of government departments when the Government of New South Wales, only four hours away by road or 30 minutes by air, could do the job most adequately. In Canberra we are splurging the public purse to pander to the whims of a handful of people. People in Canberra know that this is where the lucky country is. When we see the way that the people of Canberra are looked after and compare the facilities here with the facilities that the rest of Australia has to suffer, there is little wonder that the people of Canberra want to retain their selfish little nest. 
I notice that it is nearly one o'clock, but I want to register here once and for all my total opposition to any concept of government for the Australian Capital Territory other than thrusting it back into New South Wales whence it come and allowing it to stand on its own feet with the rest. I can understand that the people of the Territory may be a little nervous about what might happen if  Mr Wran  became their Premier, but let me assure them that the foundations of Canberra have been so well laid and the city has been so well planned that now not even a Labor State Government could destroy it. It is here. Let us call an end to the charade. We have' our showpiece. I believe that it is time the Capital Territory was put back into New South Wales and the people in this area were treated like other Australians and not accorded the special treatment they command under the present system. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made absolutely no mention of the legacy that the previous Government left Australia. He did not mention inflation. If ever there were an acknowledgement by an opposition that a government has come to grips with and is defeating the cause of so many of the problems of this nation, it was his silence. The fact that the inflation rate was about 16.7 per cent when the previous Government stepped out and is now about 10 per cent escaped mm completely. That is an indication that the present Government is getting the ship back on course. We inherited a ship that had been gutted by fire. It is not easy to rebuild a ship that has been almost destroyed. I am not one of those on this side of the House who say: 'Look at what we inherited. We have an excuse forever'. The Opposition fails to acknowledge that this Government is making progress. The honourable member referred to the level of unemployment and to our limited ability to reduce taxation. These factors are a direct result of the rate of inflation, the uncertainty and the lack of confidence which we were left. It is little wonder that he walks out of the chamber. It is little wonder that he does not want to hear the truth. 
The shallow honourable member made a speech to impress his electorate. He spoke as if the Labor Party was the only party in Australia which regarded itself as being concerned for the less fortunate in our society. It does not have a monopoly on that concern. If members of the Opposition feel that honourable members on this side of the House have no compassion for the unemployed, they are wrong. We care. The situation that we inherited, which required having to attend carefully to the economy, has prolonged the task of reducing the level of unemployment. I believe that the return of stability, the return of confidence and the defeat of inflation will return Australia to the conditions which existed when the Labor Government took office. The Australia which it took over after  Mr McMahon's  Government was defeated, despite some of the minor ills which it was suffering, was in comparison a very healthy Australia. The level of unemployment was 130,000 or 140,000. We had not had projected a figure of 300,000 unemployed before those three destructive years. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide spent a lot of time talking about taxation and how the benefits would accrue to only a few. The first point I make is that 225,000 Australians who are presently paying income tax will, because of the recent Budget, in future be exempt from paying income tax. The minimum taxable income has been lifted. That has benefited almost 230,000 Australians. Yet listening to the honourable member one would think that the Government had doubled the income tax rate. Furthermore, he referred to the new system which will be introduced. I must draw to his attention the fact that the Henderson report on poverty- a document often quoted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was Prime Minister- stated that Australia should have an income tax scheme of a simplified kind, involving a standard rate of tax plus surcharges on people who have high incomes. The honourable member said that we give to people on higher incomes a greater tax relief than we do to people on lower incomes. I am pleased to say that not all members of the Opposition indulge in this practice. Everybody knows that under the present scheme, the one which the Labor Party retained and the one which fed Labor fires- it wanted inflation in this country- the more people's wages rose the more taxation rose and the more Labor could irresponsibly finance its programs and policies without giving a thought to where the money was coming from. 
-As the honourable member for Denison said, spend it like water. The taxation contribution of  Mr and Mrs Working  Australia was increased by 89 per cent in those three years. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide is back and is interjecting.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would you quell him? He is on fire again. There was this vast tax rip-off. Yet the honourable member said today that we are assisting the rich and not the poor. The facts are, as we all know, that the people in our society who are well off pay infinitely more tax- thousands of dollars in many cases. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has frequently complained in this Parliament that when his income was $21,000 a year the tax man was ripping off $9,500. That was almost 50 per cent of what he was earning before his recent increase. That is an example of how those on higher incomes pay such a high proportion of their income in taxation. If there is to be relief, of course those who pay the greatest amount of taxation will get the greater relief in terms of dollars and cents. We cannot escape the fact that every working Australian will get relief as a result of this most progressive taxation program which comes into being as from 1 February of next year. Every Australian will benefit. The reason why the Labor Party condemns the system so often is that it is endeavouring to create an atmosphere of disbelief and concern so that if there is an early election the people will not readily recognise that this Government has given back a lot. 
Indexation must be taken into account also. A lot of people do not realise that the Government has given back millions of dollars that the Whitlam Government would have collected if it had stayed in power. When the new scheme is taken in conjunction with indexation, it can be seen that the Fraser Government is giving back to the Australian people on an annual basis about $2,000m a year more than it would have if it had not kept its promise of setting about to reform and reduce the income tax scales. That deserves praise. I commend the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the Cabinet and this Government for being a government which cares for the people and which is determined to carry out its promises. So much for the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
I take the opportunity in this debate to make some reference to the reply of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to a question about the entry into Australia of Domenico Barbaro. Earlier this year I expressed the view that  Mr Grassby  was a most unsuitable person to hold down the position of Commissioner for Community Relations. Events in recent weeks have confirmed that I am not alone in holding that view. The spectacle of hundreds of residents of the western New South Wales town of Griffith booing and hooting  Mr Grassby  during an interview on the  David Frost Show  was an unparalleled indication of public contempt towards the Commissioner by people who knew the man whom so many people talk about so unfavourably. After all, he was their member in the State Parliament and later in the Federal Parliament for many years. Who would know him better than they. 
Newspaper headlines this week and an answer given by the Minister for Immigration this morning provide even more grounds for concern about  Mr Grassby  's suitability to hold down even a clerk's job in the Public Service, let alone the position of a $44,000 a year commissioner who is supposed to mediate in cases in which it is alleged that racial overtones might exist. It would seem unfair to seize upon the conflict in the transcripts of the various radio interviews and the newspaper reports of what  Mr Grassby  has or has not said in relation to the Barbaro case. If he has not kept photocopies of the documentation in relation to this case- I believe he has- he has a magnificent memory, considering that as a Minister he handled half a million cases. 
He has stated:  'Mr Barbaro  was allowed to come to Australia to visit his dying mother'. That was more than three years ago. I am sure that every honourable member would share my happiness at the fact that the elderly  Mrs Barbaro,  living in Adelaide, is still alive and reasonably well. But  Mr Grassby  did say that the decision to allow entry was made following a departmental recommendation. This morning the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in effect informed the House that his Department has strenuously advised  Mr Grassby  that deported Domenico Barbaro, who is currently serving 14 to 18 years in prison in Italy, should not be allowed to re-enter Australia because of his criminal background.  Mr Grassby  stated yesterday also that  Mr Barbaro  was shadowed by police during his brief visit to Australia. My inquiries have established that  Mr Barbaro  was not shadowed by Commonwealth Police as claimed. 
It would seem that  Mr Grassby,  in an effort to appease the whims and desires of either a person whom he sees as holding an important position in the world or an international organisation, has agreed under the guise of compassion deliberately to override the strong advice given to him as the Minister not to allow the entry to Australia of a person who can only be described as highly undesirable. The clouds over the head of  Mr Grassby  continue to gather and to darken. It is time action was taken to investigate fully the man so that the doubts which exist in my mind and in the minds of minions of Australians are either confirmed or dispelled. If  Mr Grassby  's activities are beyond reproach his family and he deserve to have the heavy veil of current .public suspicion lifted. I sincerely hope that the Minister in charge of the Commissioner's responsibilities will set about urgently to settle once and for all the suspicions surrounding the background and the activities of the man who holds down the very important position of Commissioner for Community Relations. 
In the remaining minutes of my contribution to this debate I wish to refer to the AuditorGeneral's annual report, which was tabled yesterday, in which it was alleged that approximately $60m had been paid out accidently by the Department of Social Security. I wish to refer also to the allegations of a Public Service union that this problem was caused mainly because of staff shortages. 
-The honourable member for Diamond Valley- they can him Sparkles' these days- said that it is a lot of nonsense. I agree with him because, as was pointed out today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the staff in the Department has been increased by some 900 persons in recent months. Its need for staff to carry a greater work load was met to a very large degree. 
The matter I wish to report to the House is my concern in recent months at having received a number of phone calls from constituents who have said:  'Mr Cameron,  I have been back at work for a month. I have advised the Department that I am back at work but my cheques continue to come'. In some cases constituents told me that they had been told by some careless pubUc official- this was very careless indeed- that they should just bank the cheque and forget about it. Heaven forbid! It was their money that was being given away as well as the money of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who is attempting to interject, myself and everybody else. The most distressing part was that these people who said: 'I have told them twice and nothing has happened', were honest people who realised that they did not deserve the cheques but still they came. 
I reject that very simplistic explanation from the honourable member for Hunter. Such was my concern that I tried to contact the head of the Department of Social Security in Queensland. He was not available at the time but I gave his secretary an example of the problem and said: 'I am not so much interested in this particular case, but I plead with you and request that you look at the system which allows this to continue because that is what needs attention'. It was a screaming, squeaking wheel and it needed oil. If the Department was so busy- I do not accept that it wasthat it was not looking for the reasons for the errors which caused so many people to report that they were continuing to receive not just one cheque but two for which they were not eligible, to a degree it was irresponsible. 
The Government has altered the system in this Budget to make unemployment benefits payable in arrears rather than in advance. Unfortunately, a lot of fears have been created in the community that this will mean that those people who are currently receiving a benefit will have a fortnight's payment wiped off and will have to wait a whole month for their next cheque. That is not true. Those people who when the Budget was presented were receiving a benefit under the old system will continue to receive that benefit under the old system. Like the honourable member for Diamond Valley and others, I hope that those people who are currently unemployed will not be unemployed for much longer. 
The new system relates to the future. It simply means that if a person is unemployed he will qualify for the unemployment benefit and in about a fortnight his first cheque will be received; then it will be another fortnight before the next cheque comes. Under the old system a person would wait about  2Vi  weeks to 3 weeks for his first cheque and then four or five days later another cheque would arrive. So he was really receiving a double payment. That is how unemployed people were being paid in advance. The new system will not cause that much hardship. When we see an amount of $60m overpaid I am sure that every thinking taxpayer and every thinking unemployed person who is hoping to be back into the work force as quickly as possible to become a taxpayer again would agree that the old system was very much in need of correction and alteration. 
I do want to commend the Government on its recent Budget. Regrettably, politics being politics, when the public listens to our debates m Parliament they hear one speaker who does not have a good word to say about the Budget and then they hear a speaker from the other side of the House saying what a marvellous Budget it is and that everything about it is good. I concede, as a 
Government member, that many of the things that the Government wished to do could not be done this year or at this time; but I swear that what has been done is to the benefit of all Australians in the immediate term and in the future. 
I referred to the inheritance we received when we took back government as being a ship gutted by fire. Our economic structure is being reestablished. I am quite confident that, with the responsible attitude and good management which have been brought to government, we will see in the not too distant future the ship to which we all belong sailing firmly ahead and still in the hands of a responsible and capable government. 

 Mr YOUNG (Port Adelaide)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I feel quite certain that members of the public who may have been listening to the debate so far today would have a feeling of revulsion towards this Parliament. One could not disagree with their summary when one considers the quality of some of the contributions made.  (Quorum formed).  Honourable members opposite do not even like a description of their behaviour this morning in mild terms. They have commenced calling attention to the state of the House. We have sat here silently and heard accusations from such small minded people as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who made the crazy claim that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  drove around the streets of Canberra at 180 kilometres an hour- 108 miles an hour. That is an example of the low level of the contributions made today by Opposition members who seem to have woken up this morning, beaten their chests and thought: Let us go out and do a little bit of muck raking regardless of whether truth exists. That has been the level of their contributions. The Prime Minister did not- absolutely did not- drive around the streets of Canberra at 108 miles an hour. Yet the honourable member for Shortland stood here in the Parliament, looked honourable members on this side straight in the eyes, and claimed that it was true. Little wonder that at times the people of Australia have little regard for the veracity of many members of this Parliament. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has often said, it is refreshing to go back into the courts on occasions and mix with honest men. No wonder he formed that opinion, after seeing the performance of a number of members. 
The example cited was typical of how unfortunate and inaccurate the claims and assertions of Opposition members have been today. The most unfortunate spectacle was that of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  attacking the Prime Minister for having allowed  Mrs Fraser  to use a VIP plane for the purpose of going to the opera. Here was the Prime Minister of Australia, the busiest man in the country, having accepted an invitation to visit the opera to honour the presence of Joan Sutherland, suddenly being faced with a dilemma. At 7 o'clock at night the nation's business remained unfinished. Much as he wanted to go to the opera, he had little alternative but to ring up and say: 'I am sorry. I must continue working for Australia. I shall send my wife in my place, to represent me and the position I hold as Australia's Prime Minister'. 
We heard the minuscule minded honourable member for Melbourne ask a question. Then we saw the performance by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who took great umbrage at the fact that the Prime Minister had suggested that  Mrs Whitlam  had flown in a VIP aircraft on her own. The explanation given later, when the Leader of the Opposition suddenly realised that he had put his big foot into it, was more than acceptable. That was: 'The plane was going from Sydney to Canberra. Why should not the Prime Minister's wife have ridden on the plane if it was available?' Exactly the same argument applies to the explanation given by the present Prime Minister in relation to  Mrs Fraser  suddenly having to step into his shoes and represent him at the opera. It is a very poor reflection on the quality of debate and the intelligence level of honourable members opposite when they try to make political capital on such matters. Every thinking member of this House, if he were the Prime Minister- God forbid that most honourable members opposite will ever get even into the Ministry, let alone become Prime Minister- would have done exactly the same thing as Prime Minister Fraser did. Yet because they are not in that position they see fit to hurl mud. 
I am not interested in the ex-Prime Minister, the present leader of the Opposition, misleading the House. 
He had forgotten all about it. That is more to the point. Quite frankly, it is such a small issue that it could be forgotten. 
In the minutes remaining to me I take the opportunity to grieve at the fact that a matter which was raised months ago still has not been resolved. Honourable members will recall that  Senator Colston,  a Labor senator from Queensland, reported me to the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby.  That was last April. I think it was on 1 April. I thought it was an April Fool's Day joke. Obviously it was not. We are now heading towards the end of September and this issue is still going on. The last communication I had from  Mr Grassby,  on 18 August, asked me to be prepared to be in attendance at negotiations aimed at conciliating the sodescribed aggrieved parties. 
-That is quite correct. I made certain claims. I do not want to repeat what I said then. It would only raise the issue again in this place.  Mr Grassby,  with the powers which he holds under the Racial Discrimination Act as the Commissioner, has an obligation to come to grips with the matter and to say to  Senator Colston: 'Mr Cameron  claimed that a group of people were doing this? Since then nine people have been charged. I think the facts are that four have been convicted, three have been committed for trial and the trials of the two others are part heard. If ever there was evidence to prove the honourable member for Griffith correct, there it stands'. I simply ask the Minister responsible for this man to step in and say: 'Let us bring this to an end'. This matter is causing me great personal stress. It is going on and on. Who knows,  Mr Grassby  might think that perhaps in a year's time - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think that the hope expressed by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is met in this amending Bill. This amendment will provide the necessary machinery for compulsory acquisition of land should a negotiated settlement not be possible. In such circumstances the amendment will allow the owner of the land recourse to the courts for fair and just compensation. I congratulate the Government on its recent decision to establish the quarantine station in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. People who have studied the recent announcement and have looked a little further into the matter would realise that this station is being established so that Australia can import stock for breeding purposes. I believe it was the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who made the initial announcement and said that this project would cost about $6. lm. 
-Thank you. It is planned to spend $6.7m on this quarantine station. This Bill to amend the Act will make that possible. This is not a subject that should be canvassed at great length but I want to take this opportunity to suggest to the Parliament that it is high time that the Lands Acquisition Act was amended further. Under the present Act it seems that the Federal Government is loath to acquire land compulsorily throughout the various States. In my electorate of Griffith in Queensland we have seen the creation of a monstrosity, the Telecom Australia building, on the south side of the Brisbane River in the suburb of Woolloongabba. If the Act had been framed in a better way the Commonwealth Government could have stepped in in 1972 and acquired all the land on the corner of Vulture and Main Streets, Woolloongabba. 
-With due respect, sir, I am talking about the Act which is being amended by this Bill. I am referring to the limitations of the Act because the Commonwealth Government seems to lack the ability to acquire land compulsorily. I am taking this opportunity to highlight that fact. This Act does not come before the Parliament very often. Indeed in the ten or eleven years that I have been a member of this Parliament I have not seen this Act before us before. I was not referring to a scandal or an alleged scandal, as did the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  but to a situation that exists in Queensland. I appreciate your guidance and I will curtail my remarks and relate them to the context of this Bill. This land in Brisbane is one example of where the peopleMr  DEPUTY  SPEAKER-Order! In accordance with the previous ruling I gave, the honourable member for Griffith is out of order. 
In what way? 
All right. I will accept the wisdom which you possess, sir. 
-Sir, you know the wisdom you possess; I was not being facetious. Forgetting all about Woolloongabba and the monstrosity created in that suburb by Telecom, the Act should also be amended for another reason. We are amending the Act to accommodate the acquisition of lands in the territories. In the overall interest of the public, the Government needs a little bit of strength on its side so that it can step in and say that it will acquire particular land. The present situation is that if a person puts an excessive price on his land the Commonwealth turns its back. I am not suggesting that the Commonwealth Government should pay an unreasonably high price for land because it is the taxpayers money. 
-Sir, I would not suggest that you are being officiousMr  DEPUTY  SPEAKER-Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. I have explained already that the honourable member is out of order unless he speaks within the narrow confines of this Bill which relates to the acquisition of land in external territories. If he has no intention of sticking to the Bill I will ask him to resume his seat. 
I do not wish to continue for a great length of time because I would not like to incur your wrath. I simply repeat that this Bill provides machinery for the compulsory acquisition of land should a negotiated settlement not be possible. I hope the Government notes the fact that an amending Bill such as this is needed so that it can acquire land on the mainland, as well as the territories, on the basis of the same happy settlement that this amendment seeks to ensure. 
A couple of impressions which have been created by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)- 
I could be from anywhere after what they have done to my seat. A couple of impressions have been created by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. He said that the quota for Tasmania, because of the population growth in that State, was almost like that for the other States, if my understanding is correct. 
Well, for the benefit of the honourable member, the quota for Tasmania is 52,000, for Western Australia it is 69,000, for South Australia it is 74,000, for Victoria it is 69,000, for New South Wales it is 71,000 and for Queensland it is 65,000. With respect, I suggest that 52,000 is well below those figures. In defence of the Ministers who the previous  speaker  suggested should resign from the Cabinet, I point out that when one examines the way in which the distribution commissioners have utilised this new 10 per cent tolerance rule throughout Australia one finds that in Tasmania the division that has the highest margin above the quota is Denison. Honourable members should remember that the number of electors in each division can go 10 per cent above or 10 per cent below the quota. Denison is 4.14 per cent above the quota and Braddon, a large rural area, is only 2.76 per cent below. In Western Australia the commissioners have used almost the largest tolerance in Curtin, which is 4.56 per cent above the quota, while Kalgoorlie is 6.30 per cent below. In South Australia, the division of Adelaide is 4.2 per cent above and Barker is 3.67 per cent below. In Victoria, Chisholm is 6.37 per cent above and Mallee 6.85 per cent below. In New South Wales, Phillip is 3.77 per cent above the quota and Paterson 4.48 per cent below. In Queensland, Brisbane is 3.80 per cent above and Dawson 4.04 per cent below the quota. 
I promise I will not repeat all those figures. 
-Anyhow, I will not do anything which will rouse honourable members or your good self,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I shall stick within the confines of Tasmania. Having established those figures I am able to talk about Tasmania. I hope honourable members will remember those figures clearly. The guidelines for the commissioners indicate that the Parliament believes that the tolerance should be 10 per cent either way. Every honourable member, including the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  agrees that country electorates need a little extra support because of their huge size. Yet here in Tasmania in the seat of Braddon we have the biggest percentage below the quota- only 2.76 per cent below. 
No wonder the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  a man who is intensely interested in many rural electorates, is really stirred up about the way the distribution commissioners have treated country people. Rural people, whether they be in Tasmania or in your State of New South Wales,  Mr Acting Speaker-  I believe your electorate has been greatly increased- have not been given a fair go. This Parliament set about to correct an imbalance; it certainly did not set about to deprive rural electors of some advantage. There is not a country in the world in which rural electorates are not loaded to a degree. We pulled the tolerance back from 20 per cent to 10 per cent either way. Even the most staunch Labor men said that that was in order. Yet these distribution commissioners, who set themselves up as gods, completely disregarded the guidelines set by this Parliament. Honourable members should wait until the debate on the Queensland distribution comes before the House, because I shall have a few remarks to make about my electorate when that opportunity arises. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  endeavoured to make this a political debate. I see that as most tragic. Both Labor speakers referred to expenditure but the facts are that the actual expenditure in the 1976-77 financial year was $16 1.5m whereas the estimated expenditure for this coming financial year is $176m, an increase of some $15m. The Leader of the Opposition looks upon the amount of money expended as being the only gauge of the contribution that a government makes to the Aboriginal people. We cannot undo the neglect of 200 years in 200 days or 200 months and we cannot undo it by spending $200m or $2,000m. What needs to be done will take many years to do. I have grave doubts that any honourable member who presently sits in this Parliament will live to see the day when Aboriginal people are on their feet completely and are no longer in need of supportive services. 
The Opposition accuses us on this side of the chamber of being uninterested in the affairs of 
Aboriginal people. It was a Liberal government which proposed the alteration to the Constitution in 1967. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  he should be given his duewas a wonderfully thought-of Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the McMahon Government was generous in its allocations to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Even the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  whom I see seated across the chamber from me, was a very dedicated Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He should not allow his head to become swollen too quickly. The point is that he had a big heart but little of whatever else was needed when it came to calculating properly the measures which needed to be invoked. He was ruled by his heart, f  Quorum formed). 
I regret that two minutes of the 10 minutes allocated to me has been wasted by the honourable member for Wills who just called for a quorum. In the time still available to me I wish to speak of an initiative which we in my Federal electorate of Griffith have undertaken in recent weeks. As the Parliament will be aware, we have had established under the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations the Community Youth Support Scheme. In my electorate we have created under an existing scheme an offshoot to cater for the needs of Aboriginal youth. That scheme was established some two or three weeks ago. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has agreed to the employment of a full-time field officer to assist in the organisation of the expansion of the existing Griffith Community Youth Support Scheme to cater for the large number of unemployed Aboriginal youth in the city of Brisbane and, in particular, in my Federal electorate of Griffith.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  would you mind asking members of your party to be quiet? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The Committee will come to order. There is too much audible conversation. 
-They were Country Party members. I just want the record to be straight. The creation of this new aspect of the Community Youth Support Scheme for Aboriginal children will allow these young people to be kept busy during the day and to be given an opportunity to take part in job observation, to receive counselling on their own presentation when they apply for a job and, generally speaking, to involve themselves in community projects. I really believe that this scheme has tremendous potential. I would dearly like to see other members in this Parliament whose electorates contain a percentage of unemployed Aboriginal youth establish such a scheme in their electorates, because it has a lot of virtue. 
Earlier this year a symposium on the problem of juvenile misbehaviour in the Aboriginal community was held in Sydney. Young Aboriginals who find themselves in trouble are not only those in the 13, 14 and IS age groups but also, in many instances, young people of 17 and 18 years of age. I believe that society has an obligation to continue with many of the programs which have been developed and to introduce new programs in the future to ensure that we continue to produce more Aboriginals who can take the part or play the part of leaders in their own community. In the last five years- due credit should be given to the Labor Government and to the present Government which is continuing many of these programs- we have seen more and more Aboriginals standing on their own feet and providing leadership within their own community. That in itself is acting as an inspiration to a group of people who have felt, and rightly so, that this country gave them hardly a chance. That inspiration is assisting more and more of them on to their feet and is ensuring that more and more of them hold their heads high. 
I believe that in the long term there will be a reward for Australia in that it will have an indigenous population which will be capable of taking its place side by side with the white population where it wants to do so. Our reward also will be that we will know that, even though it took a long time for us to recognise our responsibilities, we did at one stage begin to assist the indigenous population and we too will be able to hold our heads high. Instead of having to point to our prisons with an exceptionally high rate of Aboriginal inmates and pointing to our corrective institutions with the same problem, we will be able to see the results of having given an opportunity to our Aboriginal people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
From listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who preceded me in the debate, one would think that Australia was destined for doom. Although things might still be tough, that tough situation is the direct result of the performance of the previous Labor Government. At least people in the community now have hope and justified faith that the government of Australia is in the hands of those who attack the job with a sense of responsibility and that when the hardship is over Australia will be well and truly back on the road to stability. Honourable members opposite forget about the degree to which the rate of inflation has fallen. They omit to tell the people of the way in which they unnecessarily increased beyond all reason the number of public servants. So much for the speech of the previous  speaker. 
I wish to write the concluding chapter in a saga which took almost eight months to complete during the course of this year. I do not wish to go into great detail because I have done that previously. I want to make a brief reference to the difficulties that I encountered earlier this year after  Senator Colston  reported me to the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  following a certain statement I made in Queensland on approximately 9 February this year. A number of speeches have been made in the Parliament on the issue and the matter now has been satisfactorily resolved by the Commissioner writing to me on 2 1 September informing me that I have been exonerated. With the permission of the relevant Opposition spokesman, I wish to have incorporated in  Hansard  the last three letters which passed between  Mr Grassby  and me. I seek leave to have those letters incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The letters read as follows- 

-I appreciate the courtesy extended to me. As my final comment in this place on this matter I point out that I regard it as rather strange that what was really a simple open and shut case took as long as it did to conclude. I had done nothing wrong, yet it took the Commissioner from the end of March, which I think is when the first complaint was made, until the end of September to carry out a very easy exercise. 
I wish now to deal with another matter which is concerned with the same topic and which occurred at about the same time. It will be recalled that I countered by reporting to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  under whose control the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  comes, the way that a Queensland lady felt following the claim of the Commissioner that in Japan the Japanese are taught that all Australians are racist. That woman, being Japanese by birth, was most upset and aggrieved because she thought that  Mr Grassby  was making a reflection on her and her people. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, looks around. I think he knows that the woman concerned lives in his electorate. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has written to me, informing me- his letter is dated 22 September- that under the Racial Discrimination Act such inquiries are to be made only by the Commissioner himself. The letter goes on to state: 
There is no provision for the Minister administering the Act to inquire into complaints against the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
It would seem that the Commissioner for Community Relations is in the privileged position of being the only man in Australia who can go around making racist utterances. 
That is one view. He is the only man who can go around the country in that privileged position of being beyond investigation. I hope that when the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations is reorganised the Commissioner no longer will be in that privileged position. It is most necessary that that change be made because many people in this country hold the view that  Mr Grassby  is the most racist minded person in Australia and is most unsuitable to hold the position of Commissioner. In his letter to me the Minister said in relation to this case: 
I regret that offence has been caused  Mrs ...  by statements made by the  Hon.  A. J. Grassby. You might inform her that  Mr Grassby  was not speaking as a representative of the Commonwealth Government or on its behalf and that his statements were those of a statutory officer with functions set down in legislation. 
So it would seem that the Minister has cleared up the situation once and for all: Any comments made by  Mr Grassby  do not necessarily reflect the views of the government of the day. I am quite sure that the vast majority of Australians will be very pleased with that assurance. 
In the five minutes remaining to me I wish to raise another subject. In this country today we are experiencing a situation in which many Australians have been overtrained or, alternatively, trained in vocations which provide little opportunity for employment. I know that it can be properly said, when one looks at the depressed state of the building industry in Australia, that many people who were trained originally to be draftsmen, architects and even builders and who have acquired skills in certain areas are not having those skills utilised because of the lack of public demand for them. Either they have to seek another position in a totally different field or, alternatively, for the time being they have to remain unemployed and wrestle with the frustrations and disappointments which can be associated with being in that category. 
I wish to pick out just one course amongst those offered at universities to highlight the fact that the universities have an obligation to monitor continually public demand or government demand for certain skills and certain professional qualifications. I do not choose this course as an example with any sense of vindictiveness. Recently I made a study of the situation in the field of social work courses throughout Australia. I established that some 12 or 13 educational institutions, located from the James Cook University in north Queensland right down the coast and across to Western Australia, are training people as professional social workers. Earlier I asked the relevant Opposition spokesman for permission to have a table incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek leave for the table to be incorporated. 
It was said to me recently that I should watch myself throughout my life to ensure that I never appear before a magistrate or a judge. That was said because of some of the things I have said in this place, particularly in a speech which I made in this House on 10 November 1976 when I listed the judiciary in this country and highlighted the fact that when people contemplated the salaries of politicians they often referred to the large number of politicians in the various State parliaments and in the Federal Parliament, but they forgot the large number in the judiciary. I presented to the Parliament a table which included the number of State judges, federal judges, commissioners and stipendiary magistrates. The total was 607. That compared with a national total of 756 parliamentarians. We know of the recent High Court ruling which determined the number of members of this chamber will be reduced after the next election. Unfortunately that is not the case with the nation's judiciary. The 607 have been added to at least by the appointment of another half a dozen Family Court judges. Legislation has already been passed to increase that number by another six. This year we have had the appointment of some 21 judges to the Federal Court of Australia. 
I see in the chamber the former AttorneyGeneral, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I state here and now that I am not denigrating the role that this new and most useful court must play in our community. I am highlighting the fact that when we look at the salary range of judges of the High Court, taking into account the salary of all the judiciary and that there are probably 640 or 650 of them these days compared with the 756 politicians throughout Australia, the criticism which is directed at politicians is a little unfair. It is a little unfair when we take into consideration the large salaries which are paid to the judiciary. For the life of me I cannot understand why the salary of the Chief Judge of the Family Court has been increased so dramatically according to the Schedule to the Bill. The salary is to rise to some $44,000, which is an increase of some $4,500. That Court is a very important social court, but in terms of importance it does not compare with the High Court, the Federal Court of Australia, the Industrial Court or the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yet the Chief Judge of the Family Court has a salary which pushes her into a position in which she commands a much higher income than the first lawman in Australia, the nation 's Attorney-General. 
I recall that last year when I put forward this view a debate ensued. I recall the comments of the then Attorney-General in justification of the increases. He said that many of the people who were working in the field of law were at that stage commanding incomes in the six-figure bracket, and to entice those people to the Bench required more than just giving them the status of a judge. The former Attorney-General is starting to erupt a little as he did a year before. They need more than just status and security; they need a good salary. I do not argue about that. What I do argue about is, how can this Parliament expect to attract people of the calibre of the former Attorney-General to its ranks when salaries are set at less than half of those the judiciary receives? The salary of a judge of the Family Court- I think there are 30 of them as I said before- is way ahead of that of a federal parliamentarian. Probably it is almost the same as that of a Minister of the Crown. No wonder there is some justification for people pointing to the Parliament and saying that it has more than its fair share of mediocrity. 
I think both sides of the House suffer from that. A lot of capable people are turned off Parliament because they will not lower their income which, as the former Attorney-General said last year, was in six figures, well over $100,000. They are expected to come to this place for a much lower salary. I do not intend to pursue this aspect at any great length except to give a reference for further reading to people who may be interested in pursuing this matter. On pages 2542 to 2546 of  Hansard  of 10 November last year a table was incorporated which set out salary levels of commissioners, magistrates and various judges both State and Federal. It showed that these people are very well looked after. 
I turn to another aspect within the confines of this subject. On 1 August this year I wrote to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  following my reading of the report of the Remuneration Tribunal entitled 'Determination of Remuneration Payable to Holders of Offices in the First Division of the Australian Public Service and Holders of Public Offices'. This is part of the Bill before us today. The determination I refer to was a direct result of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973. When I examined the determination I found that there were a number of officers whose salaries had been set on the basis of the salary payable from time to time to the holder of a level 5 office in the Second Division of the Australian Public Service or a level 1, a level 2, a level 3 or whatever- the numerous office bearers who serve this country. I shall quote an extract from the letter I wrote to  Senator Withers.  I said: 
I would  further  appreciate your advice as to whether or not, where office holders are pegged to various levels of the Second and Third Divisions of the Australian Public Service, this means that in future their increases will be automatic. 
Regrettably, I did not receive a reply to that letter until 1 1 October although, on many occasions, I spoke to the Minister's staff asking when I would receive a reply to my letter of 1 August. Finally I received a reply. I believe my letter was referred to the Attorney-General's Department for an opinion and hence the delay. The reply simply said: 
You also inquired regarding the remuneration of holders of public office which has been determined in terms of the salary payable to specific levels of the Second and Third Divisions of the Australian Public Service. The Tribunal determined the remuneration of such office-holders on this basis in its 1976 review and has done so again in its 1977 review. Unless, therefore, the Tribunal in a future determination otherwise determines, and this determination is not disapproved by either House of the Parliament, the salaries of these public office-holders will be equivalent to the salaries of the relevant levels of the Australian Public Service. 
I am sorry it took so long to get that reply. Reading into it one sees that the Minister has told me virtually nothing which I did not already recognise. A very fine point has been avoided. The fine point is that it is my view that the Remuneration Tribunal which was set up in 1973 was, in some instances, given the task of making determinations which had to be ratified by this Parliament by virtue of the Parliament exercising its right not to move for a disallowance. After the Parliament commences sitting we have 15 sitting days in which to move for disallowance of even our own salary increases. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
Having in mind the stated desire for cheaper air fares to operate to and from Australia and the review of Australia's international civil aviation policy, and that this can only be accomplished with airports able to facilitate the economic and adequate running of international carriers, this House asserts that Brisbane's so-called international airport be upgraded in terms of its runway facilities so that it does not remain the most inadequate and worst of any capital city on the Australian mainland and possibly the worst runway of any international airport in a tropical or semi-tropical climate in the world. 
Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications share the concern of millions of Australians at the continuing level of industrial disputation within Australia Post and Telecom? What action is being taken to ensure that postal and telecommunication services to all Australians are restored and maintained? 
Those in this Parliament who have listened to the contributions by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  must wonder as to their cheek in bringing on this subject under the title of 'Matter of public importance '. The subject is: 
The Prime Minister's divisive policies and statements. 
I believe that this subject would have been better suited for discussion at an Australian Labor Party conference behind closed doors because the only divisiveness of this Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been his effect upon the Australian Labor Party. The conflict which exists in that party in relation to the subject of uranium bears testimony to my comments. On the one hand the organisational  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the trade union leader,  Mr Hawke,  is saying that there should be a referendum to make a decision on this issue. On the other hand the parliamentary wing of the Australian Labor Party is saying: 'No referendums. We do not want anything other than a big No'. No Prime Minister has done more to consult or to ensure that his Ministers consult in a sincere endeavour to obtain peaceful progress for this great country of ours than the honourable member for Wannon, the Right Honourable Malcolm Fraser, M.P., has done. 
The two previous speakers from the Opposition side have suggested that this Government is a divisive government. Heaven forbid! They should look back on their Government's record and the way it divided rural dweller from city dweller. They should look at the way they divided young from old and the way they neglected most of the people so that they could pour money into the so-called growing swinging seats to try, at all costs, to hold those seats. Yet they have the cheek to describe this Government as divisive. Honourable members should look at the way members of the Australian public, when they had their opportunity in December 1975, divided the Labor Party. They divided the group that was in here as the Labor Government in half. They left half here and put the other half out into the street. That was the way the Australian public viewed the performance of the previous Government. Yet members of the Labor 
Party have the audacity and the effrontery to come in here, less than two years later, and to accuse this Government of being divisive. 
The second  speaker,  the honourable member for Oxley, the aspiring Leader of the Opposition, said that the key issue was the successful economic management of the country. He talked about that in terms of divisiveness. One has only to look back at bis record in the last year or so. It was on 7 September last year that the honourable member for Oxley, the man who now stands out, wishing to be tapped on the shoulder to become Leader of the Opposition, started the first run on the Australian currency. Every time the stocks of the honourable member for Oxley, one of the two shadow Treasurers, are flagging a little, he sets off another story of a run on the currency, to ensure that he gets headlines. The cost of that to Australia is hundreds of millions of dollars. 
-That is a comment from a man who does not have an axe to grind in this House. The honourable member for Oxley started the story going again this year. Every now and then, when he seeks a headline, he turns to the currency and says: 'Let's give that a bit of a whip along'. He creates more troubles for this country of ours than anybody could possibly conceive of any person who had this country's interests at heart bringing upon us. 
The accusation that this Government has been divisive by virtue of its policies and statements is a most unfair one. I do not believe that any government has tried more to bring peace and harmony and to restore stability to a nation than has the current Government. Despite the moan.ings and the crooning of the Opposition, the Government has been successful in many respects. We all recall the inflation rate which existed in this country at the end of 1975. Today the rate has been almost halved. This has occurred in only two short years. Only one Western country- I think it is Canada- has been successful in grappling with inflation as has Australia, and Australia has been led by the LiberalNational Country Party Government under the leadership of the one and only  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, partnered by  Mr Anthony.  It is a great team; a successful team. 
When honourable members opposite talk about the decline in industrial unrest they are indirectly and unconsciously praising this Government The honourable member for Oxley said that in the past decade there had never been so few hours lost. Which party is in power? 
Which party has brought about this situation? It is the present Liberal-National Country Party Government which has caused a diminution of the industrial strife that so destroyed our country in previous times. The industrial anarchy which we have witnessed in Australia has changed. We do not have hundreds of thousands of people stepping out on strike. Now it is the men in the key positions, those who can turn the key and create the greatest possible disruption of the country. They are the ones who now are controlled by the Halfpennys, the Mundeys, the Gallaghers and some of the other staunch supporters of the Australian Labor Party who also at other times profess to be avowed communists. 
-And Sammy Armstrong, as I am informed by the Government Whip. These are the people whom the Labor Party seeks to protect. For the life of me, I cannot understand how the Labor Party has not learned the lessons of its three years in office. The lessons are these: The Australian believes in a fair go for the worker. The Australian also believes in a fair go for Australia. The average citizen believes that the trade union movement regrettably has been irresponsible in certain sections and has created havoc for a country that is struggling to get back on its feet after the economic recession and setback which it received at the hands of the previous Government. 
It is interesting to note that only 27 per cent of Australians believe that unions should have the right to strike to get wage increases outside the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Of that figure, only 30 per cent were unionists. Only 27 per cent of Australians said that all members should have to stop work if the unions go on strike. Some 67 per cent said that some members should be able to keep working if they want to. Yet we continually hear words such as 'scab' used against a person who wants to stand up and say: 'I want to keep working for my company, for my country, because I am really getting a fair go. What I am being driven into doing and being driven into accepting is to my eventual detriment and to the detriment of my country and my children'. This matter of public importance is perhaps the weakest introduced this year. It states: 
The Prune Minister's divisive policies and statements. 
I suggest that it would be better for a matter of public importance to come from this side of the House praising the Prime Minister's decisive policies and statements. They alone are getting this country back on the rails. We should be grateful we have not had to depend on the brilliance which has come from the Opposition. 
I announced in Brisbane last Monday evening that, because of the Federal redistribution which has adversely affected the seat of Griffith which I have represented since 1966, it is my intention to place my nomination with the Liberal Party in an endeavour to gain preselection for the new Federal seat of Fadden. The new seat of Fadden is named after a great Queenslander and former Prime Minister, the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. It is situated between the southern outskirts of the city of Brisbane and the New South Wales border and between the back of the coastal strip and roughly the base of the Great Dividing Range. I look forward to representing the people of Fadden. Representing that electorate will provide a totally new lifestyle compared with that of representing a central city seat such as Griffith with its numerous and diversified problems. 
I state that no parliamentarian could be richer in experience and memories than I am as a result of my association with the people dwelling in the 25 suburbs which in these remaining hours constitute the present electorate of Griffith. Those people have been good to me, and it is worth stating for the record that there is no Federal seat in Australia that has stuck by its member as Griffith has stuck by me. The seat was won from the ALP by 801 votes in 1966 and, as a result of the 1968 Federal redistribution, was subjected to some improvement. During the turbulent years that followed for the Liberal Party- a time when I saw several of my colleagues defeated- my majority was 1,600 in 1969, 350 in 1972, and 1,550 in 1974. 
Honourable members might remember that 1974 was the year that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  personally chose a candidate for the Labor Party for the purpose of taking the seat from me. Clem Jones' 1974 campaign in Griffith is now history. He was described at the time as the best political candidate the Labor Party could offer Australia. No one gave me a chance of winning; yet the people of Griffith indicated at the ballot box that they felt that they were satisfied with their sitting member. The 1975 election was an easy one for sitting Liberal and National Party members. The people of Griffith, despite their basic political leanings have stuck fast during all those years. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard a  paper prepared at my request by the Parliamentary Library. The paper indicates the volatility of the Australian electorate. I seek leave to incorporate also the letter which I lodged with the Distribution Commissioner on the redistribution of Griffith. 
In summary, the paper prepared by the Parliamentary Library shows now, since the writs were issued in 1966, there have been 92 changes in the political allegiance of the seats in this House; 32 of the seats have changed their political representation more than once. I concede that there is a degree of luck in holding a marginal seat, but my experience has been that the harder I work the luckier I get. 
Because of the actions of three men, namely the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland, 
I am being forced to turn my back on Griffith because of the manner in which they have emasculated the boundaries. I have held the seat of Griffith for 1 1 years. When one considers that the average parliamentary life of a Federal parliamentarian is stated to be less than eight years, this is an unusual performance for a member who has won by such a tiny margin. It will interest members of the House of Representatives to learn that members of the lower houses of the six State legislative assemblies have a fivefold greater chance of surviving in their chambers than do members in the lower House of this Parliament. Those figures are based on records which go back to 1963. Survival here for 11 years is a long time. Indeed, it took nine years for the Sydney Harbour Bridge to be constructed. The construction of the Panama and Suez canals took only 10 years. Michelangelo, if he worked non-stop, would have completed painting the Sistine Chapel three times in that period. 
The new seat of Fadden, which I hope to represent, has the capacity to give me a greater share of the vote than does my present seat of Griffith. Although it might be suggested that what I am about to say is simply a case of sour grapes, I assure people listening to the debate and those who may read  Hansard  that in my mind at this point in time my future in this place is secure, although I will be subjected to some inconvenience. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m.  Mr DONALD  CAMERON-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had referred to the fact that my electorate had been emasculated by the three Queensland Commissioners, that I have been forced out of the electorate of Griffith and have nominated for the new seat of Fadden. My final sentence was an expression of hope that people would not disregard my comments simply as sour grapes. I hope that what I say will be understoodin the context that a new seat is available and that I stand more to lose than to gain from speaking tonight. When someone we know dies from cancer we say: 'There but for the grace of God go I'. If in this Parliament honourable members do well in a redistribution they seal their lips, breathe a sigh of relief and say: There but for the grace of God go I'. In New South Wales the Commissioners responded to reasoned arguments" - 
-People have a right to expect that Commissioners will at least take note of public comment, and I am pleased that the honourable member for Riverina who has been disadvantaged agrees with me, but this is not the case in Queensland. Their minds appear to have been closed except for the two alterations which were alluded by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  There was a slight change to put back what they unnecessarily removed from the electorate of Dawson, and there was a change of name of the new electorate from Gold Coast to McPherson. As the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commission and Queensland's Chief Electoral Officer, Francis Coleman was, prior to his appointment from Canberra last year, the electoral officer for McPherson, one might argue on his behalf that he had a strange sentimental attachment to that name and wanted it for ever emblazoned in the lights of the Gold Coast. Beyond that the Commission did nothing. Section 19 sub-section 2 (g) of the original Act provides that the Commissioners shall give due consideration to 'existing boundaries of divisions and sub-divisions'. Even when  Mr Daly  was the Minister for Administrative Services and altered the Act, he ensured that that very important provision was maintained. The only change in the Act in this regard was that that provision became section 19 (e) but the words, that is, the Commissioners shall give due consideration to 'existing boundaries of divisions and sub-divisions', remain. The Commissioners disregarded that provision. 
Section 2 1 of the Act invites the public to make suggestions and to place before the Commission objections and it is the Commission's task, supposedly, to consider those objections. I put in an objection and so did the people and,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I draw your attention to this book which I have in front of me which represents the objections from the State of Queensland. That book is thicker than the books containing objections from the States of Western Australia, New South Wales, Tasmania, Victoria and South Australia. 
-Put together, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs reminds me. Obviously something was wrong. Its the thickest book of objectives against a redistribution in Australian history. More than half of all objections throughout Australia came from the people of Queensland, and over one-quarter of all the objections for Australia came from one-fifth of one of the 127 electorates. A small pocket of people screamed in dismay and disappointment, but the Commissioners brushed them aside with a contemptuous 29-word sentence. That is all the attention they paid to half the objections in Queensland- 29 lousy words. I said previously that it appears as if their minds had been made up. 
I received today an unsolicited letter which is representative of many. I leave the writer anonymous. I read this extract from the letter: 
It would certainly seem that as far as the Commissioners were concerned the wishes of the electors were not so important as the directions I feel they had received and which were not necessarily in parallel with those of individual Commissioners. 
That comment is not unlike the words which came from the hps of the honourable member for Lilley earlier this evening.  His  words make interesting reading. Indeed they come from the lips of a man without an axe to grind. He still has his Lilley, but he was so moved by the stories in wide circulation in Queensland- I see the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  nodding his head in agreement- that he drew the attention of this place to what has happened in our State. 
As the honourable member for Griffith, I turned what may have been regarded in 1966 as a seat of clay into a seat of gold for the Liberal Party. It stood by me five times. The Commissioners may have taken Griffith from me, but they have not taken my integrity. If ever I reach the stage in this place that I have to silence my hps when I see rotten apples in the case, I would rather be out of it because I would no longer possess the integrity that a member of this place should have. 
I suggest- after the next election I will work towards this goal- that the Commonwealth Electoral Act should be altered. As the honourable member for Lilley said, we should never again allow the third Commissioner, who is a government appointee, to be a public servant because pubhc servants, like everybody else, have a great deal of interest in their own careers and opportunities for promotion. Never again, if I have my way, will a bunch of anonymous men- three of them- sitting in their soft chairs behind closed doors be able to treat the people with the contempt that has been displayed, principally by the  Chairman  of Commissioners in Queensland,  Mr Coleman,  to those hundreds of people in those two subdivisions who reacted in a spontaneous way and wrote in protesting at what the Commissioners were doing. Their words were not heeded. Those hundreds of people may as well have saved their stamps, their envelopes and their time in writing. 
Every puppy has his day. That is not meant to be an idle threat. I assure the House that whilst I face a new future in a new seat, what has been done to Griffith is an event that should not be allowed to be repeated anywhere in this country, whether it is done to a Labor man or a Liberal man. In short, the Commissioners removed from the seat two subdivisions which made it impossible for me to win it, put them in another seat, took two subdivisions out of that seat and put them in Griffith. They set out to turn it into a safe seat for another party. In my opinion they did it simply to make themselves look good guys and fair guys. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, who is in charge of the Electoral Act. Is the Minister aware that a candidate of another party for the new Federal seat of Fadden is masquerading by newspaper advertisements as if he has the endorsement of another party as well as his own party. Will the Minister ensure that when the Electoral Act is amended, it is so amended that we extend the principle embodied in the alteration to the Constitution last May in relation to casual Senate vacancies when political parties were recognised for the first time and thus prevent, by law, candidates indulging in delusions of grandeur or just plain false pretences? 
-by leave- On 27 October, during a discussion of the electoral redistribution for New South Wales, I sought and obtained leave to incorporate at page 2543  of Hansard  a paper prepared by the Parliamentary Library which detailed the changes in the political allegiances of the various seats in this House since the 1966 election. The document prepared by the Parliamentary Library contained some errors. The errors no doubt were caused by the rush with which it was prepared following the short notice I gave. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a document which corrects the errors. 
-I commence my seconding of the nomination of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  as  Chairman  of Committees by making brief reference to the previous speech. Since I have been a member I do not recall the Australian Labor Party Opposition ever proposing a member of the Government side as a candidate. That it has done so today highlights the fact either that the Opposition is totally devoid or bereft of talent or that honourable members opposite are indulging in an exercise of humbug. The only time that members of the Opposition ever make a speech of praise about anybody on this side of the House is after that person is deceased or defeated. We had another example of that today. 
I second the nomination of the honourable member for Wide Bay with special pride, because he is a fellow Queenslander and because he and I have something in common- large rural electorates. At 13 years of age the honourable member started work as a telegraph messenger at the General Post Office in Hobart. At the beginning of the War he joined the Royal Australian Air Force.  His  ability was quickly recognised, and he was placed in the intelligence group. At the end of the War he took advantage of the retraining program and set about gaining his matriculation. Later he served as an immigration officer. In about 1950  the honourable  member packed his gear and headed north to Queensland where he commenced farming. He was a very successful farmer. For members of the Opposition to cast aspersions on his integrity and on his ability to learn and to come to grips with the new job leaves honourable members on this side of the chamber stunned and surprised. 
For the benefit of the Opposition I would like to recall some of the history of the position of  Chairman  of Committees. The office of the  Chairman  of Committees developed in the House of Commons principally as a result of the centuries-long conflict between King and parliament. For several conturies the House conducted its operations without the delegation of any of its duties. The committee system was commenced when the House began to replace the Speakerthat is you, sir- with a private member during debate on monetary matters. A private member could be trusted more readily than the  Speaker. 

 - Sir, if you were  Speaker  back in the early 1 800s it would apply to you, but you were not. A private member could be trusted more readily than the  Speaker,  who was often the King's creature, not to report to the monarch every word that was uttered about his probably extortionate demands for subsidies. Over the years this practice crystallised into an established and cherished usage, resulting in the modern system of committees of the whole House. Eventually as the Commons' suspicions of its  Speaker  abated the  Chairman  came to be identified with the  Speaker  as his  deputy.  Until 1853 the  Speaker  had no  deputy,  and the House would adjourn if he could not take his place due to illness. If illness was prolonged he resigned and another was appointed until the original  Speaker  recovered. In 1853 the House resolved to allow the  Chairman  of Ways and Means to act as  Deputy Speaker.  In 1855 an Act was passed to extend all the powers of the  Speaker  to his  deputy.  I have outlined the historical beginnings of this position, and we on this side of the House feel quite confident that the honourable member for Wide Bay will serve in the position with dignity and distinction. 
I wish to take just a moment to express the view that the amendments to the Standing 
Orders will mean that we will have a continuation of the five minutes limit on speeches in the adjournment debate, resulting in six speeches of five minutes duration per evening. As was shown in the last Parliament, it does not take very much imagination for one to disrupt completely an honourable member's opportunity to speak in this debate. When points of order are taken one after the other in a five-minute speech, we see that five minutes is a totally useless and inappropriate amount of time- I repeat that it is totally useless- to be set aside for an adjournment debate speech. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  is at the table and is listening very carefully to what I am saying. I know that in reply he will say that, if we want to go back to the old system under which honourable members were allowed to speak for 10 minutes, there would be time for only three speakers on the adjournment. The other option open is to continue to sit on into the night. Knowing how honourable members feel about the old style of sittings, when we used to sit until 3 o'clock in the morning, I realise that that option will not be taken up. Nevertheless, I believe that any government has an obligation to give private members an opportunity to raise matters which they believe are of importance. I do not believe that the grievance debate, which gives about six honourable members an opportunity to speak for 10 minutes about twice a year at the most, is an appropriate outlet for them and I believe that honourable members rely very heavily upon the adjournment debate at night. 

 Mr Speaker, I am not accusing any individual from any particular party but you have seen that both sides are guilty of planned disruption if the view is held that what the person on the other side has to say may be destructive or hurtful to the other side. We have all indulged in this sort of practice. The Leader of the House should undertake here and now, while he knows that he has support for the measures he is proposing, in the next month to review the system. Perhaps he will come back to this place having concluded that the ordinary business of the House will cease at 10 o'clock at night so that we can have the restoration of six 10-minute speeches on the adjournment. 
-Many of the honourable members who are referring to my rural electorate would be unaware of the fact that in previous years there was no time limit on adjournment debates. Honourable members should listen. I am just trying to help them. I have no complaints but they obviously have. Previously the adjournment debate would commence at the end of Government Business and the House would sit until honourable members no longer wanted to rise. That meant that if honourable members so desired the House could sit all night and all next morning. We are now subject to restrictions which are in many ways sensible but which are very inhibiting. I am referring to something which has been lost by those private members who smiled a moment ago. Before I resume my seat, I ask the Leader of the House: Have I your assurance that you will not dismiss these remarks lightly and that you will come back in a matter of weeks perhaps with a further amendment along the lines I have suggested. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  In return for the silence which will be accorded me during this maiden address as the honourable member for Fadden, I shall be non-provocative. Initially I wish to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your re-election to the position of  Speaker.  I make the observation that during the last two years you have brought more than a degree of dignity and competence to the position of  Speaker  of the House. I offer my congratulations to the new  Chairman  of Committees and hope that after some training he will display the same competence you have displayed. I wish also to congratulate the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  on the quality of their maiden speeches. I hope that in the years to come they will develop to the stage at which they can continue to offer a lot more to our Parliament. 
I take this opportunity in the AddressinReply debate to offer my congratulations to a former Queenslander,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, who has now taken up the position of Australia's Governor-General. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON He was a Victorian initially. Please do not interject in a maiden speech. Like so many people in the south, he migrated to Queensland. I say on a very serious note that  Sir Zelman  Cowen has a greater burden on his shoulders than perhaps any previous Governor-General of this country. I say that in the light of recent history. The previous Governor-General followed what I believe was the right course in dismissing the Whitlam Government.  His  actions created controversy. They created a national division. That is now history. I believe that history will judge his actions as having been correct. Nevertheless, any thinking Australian would be bound to recognise that the division which followed was sad. 
It was pleasing on Tuesday to see members of the Australian Labor Party for the first time in some years presenting themselves to the Governor-General in the Parliamentary Library. That indicated that a new bridge has been built, that members of the Opposition can accept  Sir Zelman  Cowen and that they themselves are not so much against the position as against a man. Whether their views are wrongly based is a subject which I will not canvass here today, but I believe that their actions on Tuesday underline what I said at the beginning when I referred to the heavy burden that  Sir Zelman  Cowen carries in restoring acceptance in our Westminster system and the system which goes back so far- right to the beginning of this nation and for many centuries in the mother country. 
I also wish to congratulate the new member for Griffith,  Mr Humphreys,  who is in the House today. I say to him simply that his career in this place has just begun. But the people who put him here- they are known to me- are very fine people and deserve his closest attention. I trust that he will respond to their demands as he should respond to them. As a Cameron, I wish to point out that we now have a third Cameron in this House. We have the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)-  the well known the Honourable Clyde- the lesser known Donald from Queensland and now we have a Ewen Cameron. This Parliament, since Federation, has had its share of Camerons. Ewen 
Cameron from Indi is the thirteenth Cameron in the Federal Parliament and he  becomes  the ninth in this chamber. There have been four Camerons in the Senate. Six of the 13 Camerons have been Donalds. The Federal seats of Brisbane, Lilley, Griffith, Oxley and Fadden in Queensland all have been fortunate enough at some stage during their existence to be represented by a Donald Cameron.  Mr Speaker,  knowing your ancestral links I can see the stunned look on your face as history is recalled for the benefit of all. I simply welcome to this chamber the latest member of the clan. May his stay here be long. 
As you said at the beginning of my speech,  Mr Speaker,  I am now the member for Fadden. The electorate that I represent is named after a former Prime Minister, another great Queenslander. Let me recall his history for those who are unaware of it. He was born in Ingham in Queensland on 13 April 1895. He was the son of a police officer. He was married in Mackay in 1916. He attended the Walkerston State school at Mackay and later qualified in accountancy. He turned to work at an early age to support his family after the death of his parents. He became a weighbridge clerk at a mill office. He became the assistant Town  Clerk  and later the Town  Clerk  of the Mackay City Council. He established his own business as a chartered accountant in Brisbane and Townsville which later became one of the largest firms in Queensland. He was an alderman of the Townsville City Council. He represented Australia at meetings of the International Bank, the International Monetary Fund and numerous Commonwealth and international conferences. He was made a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1 95 1 and a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1 958. 
He was the Member of the Legislative Assembly for the seat of Kennedy in the Queensland State Parliament between 1932 and 1935, when he was defeated. He later became a member of the House of Representatives, in 1936, where he remained until his retirement in 1958. He was Minister Assisting the Treasurer and Minister for Supply and Development in 1940, Minister for Air and Civil Aviation in 1 940, and Treasurer from 1 940 to 1 94 1 and from 1949 to 1958. He was the Prime Minister from 29 August until 7 October 1941. He was Leader of the Country Party from 1941 to 1958, Opposition Leader from 1941 to 1943 and Deputy Prime Minister from 1949 to 1958. He passed away on 2 1 April 1 973. A finer man, a man more gifted with humour, could hardly be found. Let  me relate some of the humour of the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. I have here an extract from  Forty Days and Forty Nights: Memoir of a War-Time Prime Minister.  He wrote: 
My actual Prime Ministership . . . lasted from 29 August to 7 October 1941, a period of forty days and forty nights, and it reminded me of old Noah and his Ark. I have since harboured great respect and sympathy for Noah, for I had to steer a leaky and unreliable Ark- and Narksthrough turbulent waters! While I sent out a couple of doves, I was wrecked by two vultures. 
He went on to say that he served as Acting Prime Minister for an aggregate of 692 days which, with the addition of 40 days as Prime Minister, made 732 days, which is a longer term than that served by, as he described them, 'a number of fully-fledged Australian Prime Ministers'. He said further: 
Consequently, as background, I mention that I was a member of the Queensland Parliament for three years, 1 932 to 193S, and after having been redistributed 'out' of my electorate - 
I know how that feels-  and politically assassinated out of another seat by means and in circumstances which need not now be related- Abraham Lincoln was assassinated by John Booth and I was politically disposed of State-wise by polling booth - 
That was  Sir Arthur  Fadden 's humour, and great humour it was. 
That is enough reference to history. Let me turn to the future. Probably a greater mixture of Ministers visited the electorate of Fadden during the election campaign than visited any other seat. We saw the presence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair), Senator Withers,  the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock), Mr Speaker,  and even the Premier of Western Australia and a number of others. That is good. I can speak in this Parliament of the division of Fadden and, although it is a new seat, so many people in this chamber have been there. Their reasons for being there were mixed but they were reasons of support. They have been there and people will know what I am speaking about. I sought permission earlier from an Opposition front bencher to have incorporated in  Hansard  some figures relating to the results of the election. I seek leave to incorporate those figures. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197802235_41_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197802235_42_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197802235_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para class="block" pgwide="yes">HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES CANDIDATES IN FADDEN, AND PARTY AFFILIATION 
BARBER, Janice Ann- Australian Democrat 
BOND, Melody- Independent 
CAMERON, Donald Milner-Liberal Party 
GAUTREY, Peter Alexander-Progress Party 
JONES, Clem- Australian Labor Party 
SHAPCOTT, James Douglas-National Party 
The composition of my new electorate is totally different from that of my old electorate. With the assistance of the figures provided by the agricultural census taken on 3 1 March 1 977I have learned that in the rural part of Fadden, in the Beaudesert area there are 420 beef holdings on which some 74,000 cattle graze and there are 244 dairy farms with a total of 35,000 dairy cattle. In the Boonah district there are 325 beef holdings containing 43,000 cattle, and 152 dairy farms with 12,000 dairy cattle. In the Albert area there are 225 beef properties with 17,365 head of cattle and 100 dairy farms with 14,000 dairy cattle. Not all of that Albert area is in the Federal seat of Fadden but if I apportion that which belongs to Fadden I find that I represent 860 grazing properties with 136,000 cattle and 450 dairy farms with 53,000 dairy cattle. In the Albert area there are also 652 sheep on 6 holdings, and in the Beaudesert area 500 sheep on 11 holdings. In this vastly rural area potatoes and fodder crops are cultivated by many people who work very hard. 
The message is that no longer in this House will the rural people be represented totally by the National-Country Party. They now have a strong and firm voice on the Liberal side. Whilst I cannot at this early stage of association with this area lay claim to having grasped all the knowledge which is there to be grasped, I believe that I am on my way. I believe that as the months pass honourable members in this House will see the rise of a new champion for the cause of the rural dweller. 
Let me turn to the results of the election. In the town of Kerry in my electorate- the Labor Party will need to go right back to square one when it hears what its standing is- a town of some 141 voters, the Australian Labor Party gained five votes, which represents 3 per cent of the vote. That is what people think about the Labor Party out in some parts of my electorate. I am quite sure that after another three years that vote out there will be typical of all areas of Fadden as the Labor Party's stocks plunge lower and lower. The newspapers which service the electorate are mainly the  Albert News,  the  Logan-Albert Times  and the  Fassifern Guardian.  I have already spoken to the Parliamentary Library officials to see whether these newspapers, like other rural newspapers, can be made available for all honourable members. One of them dates back to 1904 and the other day one celebrated its 100th year of circulation. That is more than can be said of many of the major daily newspapers. 
The electorate of Fadden is not comprised totally of rural areas. There is a large urban sector. Regrettably, much of that urban area is infested with real problems, problems that have arisen as a result of fast growth in a district where insufficient requirements were made of the developers, whether private or state, to introduce the facilities which so many people in city areas take for granted so as to ensure that these people were given some semblance of real quality of life. Thousands upon thousands of housing commission homes were built in certain areas. I do not believe that any society can simply say that those who are poor should be bundled together and pushed out or placed here or there. I believe that there is considerable virtue to be gained in the makeup of someone's personality and outlook on life if he is given an opportunity to share his life as a neighbour in a district which is not what could be loosely described as deprived. 
The problems of the rural areas of my new electorate are great and have been spoken of already today by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie).  The problems which worry him, worry me. The problems in some of the urban parts of Fadden frighten me insomuch as they are almost insurmountable without the injection of millions and millions of dollars. This comes about at a time when we are forced, by virtue of the errors that were cast upon this nation by the previous Government, to curtail expenditure. As the new member for Fadden, I hope that I will be seen to represent not just the rural element of the electorate but also what could be loosely described as a fast developing area which has had more than its share of problems because of its association with what has been the fastest growth centre in Australia. It is my intention in the years ahead, as the member for Fadden, to turn my mind to working for the improvement of the lot of the rural and the urban dweller in the new electorate. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that far too often the cost of innovations and changes to improve the beef industry or beef marketing is borne solely by the producer? Is the Minister aware also that genuine concern exists in the minds of producers of beef that, following the introduction of beef classification, the total cost of classification eventually will rest with them? Will the Minister give an assurance that, while consideration is being given to the technical problems of classification, equal consideration will be given to devising a scheme to ensure that its introduction will not be an added cost to the already depressed producer? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am pleased to associate myself with the comments that were made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  As a representative of a country electorate I want to draw to his attention the fact that I have noticed that 10 per cent of the population of my electorate live in very much rural areas, but 75 per cent of my constituents under 25 years of age who have died on the roads in Fadden come from that small proportion of the population. Perhaps I, like many members of this Parliament, should be condemned for not having noticed the significance of that fact before, but when one lives in a big city one does not notice things as easily as one does having a different responsibility. I believe that the state of country roads represents a devastating risk to the lives of motorists, both young and old, and I hope that the incoming  chairman  will pay a lot of attention to the death risk on country roads. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether his attention has been drawn to a nationwide survey of small business, which is causing concern to the Victorian Small Business Development Corporation, in which it is stated that there is a 70 per cent probability that a new business will fail within five years of inception. Does the Minister agree that even if this survey result is 50 per cent inaccurate, it is a matter of grave concern in a free enterprise society? 
I wish to make brief reference to the final comments of the honourable member for 
Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  He virtually exonerated all patients, including himself and myself, although he is a doctor of medicine in his own right and rendered most useful service to me many years ago. I challenge his statement that the blame rests solely with the medical profession. When one considers the increase in medical usage in this country one sees that between 1955 and 1968 the number of private medical services per head of population rose by approximately 50 per cent in all States to figures varying between 3.2 per cent per annum in Victoria and 4.16 per cent per annum in South Australia. In 1967-68, the Australian average for private medical services was 4.2 per cent. It was 4.7 per cent in 1975 and it is estimated now to be approximately 5.6 per cent. 
I hold the view that people can get to the stage that when the smallest problem confronts them they turn to a doctor for consultation. I believe that medical care should be easily attainable, but if it were not available so cheaply or easily there is a strong possibility that people may think twice before they consult a doctor whereas presently they do not hesitate to consult a doctor. 
-Of course there are people in this chamber who do not go to the doctor often enough. The previous  speaker,  the ex-Minister, is shaking his head in disagreement. We are embroiled here in what is mainly a philosophical disagreement. He can shake his head and I can shake mine and we will never come to agreement. However, I firmly hold that view, as I am sure most members of this side of the chamber do. A lot of members on the other side of the chamber, misguided though they sometimes may be, support the view held by the honourable member for Maribyrnong- a view which is wrong. 
When dealing with the escalation of health care costs in this country- and I am not going to indulge today in a denigration of the Oppositionit is only right that we recall the preMedibank days when the cost of health care was so much less than it is now. I notice that in this report it is stated that in 1960-61 the national health bill was around $700m- the honourable member cannot shake his head to that-and that by 1975-76 the bill exceeded $5,200m. 
-It has perhaps gone even higher than that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I suggest to both the honourable member for Fadden and the honourable member for Maribyrnong that they address their remarks to the Chair. 
-The point is that, whether or not the figures are slightly inaccurate, there has been a massive increase. I know that there has been something called inflation in this country, but there has been a huge increase in the contribution that we are making as a nation to keep ourselves well. Earlier speakers have referred to percentages in terms of our actual expenditure. I am not going to go over that ground, but there is no denying the fact that the cost of health care in this country has risen dramatically and it has risen in the way that members on the Government side of the House when in Opposition predicted it would rise. I recall all too clearly the days in 1 974 when the then Government had a little trouble getting legislation through the Senate. Following the double dissolution when we went to the people, one of the questions put to the people to enable the joint sitting was the introduction of the Labor Party's health care system. We came into this very chamber for the joint sitting, and I remember sitting on the other side of the House opposing this legislation vigorously until the end. The Labor Government brought in its senators, who joined with Labor members of the House of Representatives to pass the legislation and, by sheer weight of numbers, this country was handed a health scheme which, since the day of its inception has been a sheer disaster and an alldevouring machine. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to. make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, sir, I do. Earlier I sought the leave of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  to make a statement but I was advised that it would be a far more satisfactory way to present this matter as a personal explanation. The  Nation Review  of this week presented a story in relation to the Queensland redistribution with the headline 'Cameron Loses Again'. I shall refer now to a story on page 2 of today's Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  a section of which states:   . . a small but powerful group may move to undercut Liberal MP  Mr Don  Cameron in his south-east Queensland seat of Fadden. 
These reports tend to give a very real impression that the member for Fadden is no longer capable of arriving at a rational conclusion. As a representative of the people I have no alternative but to use this Parliament today to present the facts as they are in relation to the redistribution. I assure all honourable members that I do not do this with a sense of relish. However, my judgment is being seriously questioned. I do not do this in anger, but rather with a deep appreciation of the privilege afforded me in this place and with a degree of anguish that only those people who have been in this position would really understand. 
A resume of what I shall relate is that a series of events has taken place. This has driven me on in the belief that all is not well. Much must be related to allow others to reach their own conclusions. Because of the time factor, I shall withhold events of minor consequence and shall replace names with a code to avoid implicating those people whose names do not really need to be stated. Initally, I state my unshakeable belief that the system of redistribution as designated under the Commonwealth Electoral Act is so designed to ensure as honest and as fair a redistribution as possible. No electoral Act can completely compensate for the frailties of mankindbias, dishonesty, et cetera- but we try to avoid them and woe betide he or she who is caught fiddling the system. 
Some assertions I shall make cannot be proved and might be subject to denial. I can only assure the House that I shall make no claim unless its truth is thickly veneered with vivid recollection. Actual dates may be omitted because their significance was not apparent in the early stages. Remember, I have spoken inside and outside this chamber on redistribution, so no man can cast the accusation that I am a coward using the highest form of protection that can be afforded in this land. 
To give the House a recollection of the actual machinery dates of the Queensland redistribution, I supply the following information: On 19 April, the Commissioners were appointed; on 20 April, the Ministerial announcement was made in the Senate; on 26 April, the advertisement appeared in the Government  Gazette;  26 May was the closing date for submissions; 9 June was the closing date for comments on submissions; on 10 August, the Commissioners' proposal was published; 9 September was the closing date for objections; and, on 26 September 1977, the final report of the Commissioners was presented. This is all important, as will become apparent. 
Every honourable member in this place was very much aware for some time prior to the commencement of the redistribution that there had to be a redistribution of seats in the Australian electorate. To present this explanation chronologically, I inform the House of a conversation with a very senior Queenslander in this place early last year. He informed me that he had been subjected to an approach in regard to Queensland's third Commissioner. He told me that he was 'not going to have a bar of them having their fingers in the redistribution'. No honourable member needs to be reminded how sensitive a subject this is to members of the House of Representatives. I was to be assured in January this year, and I accept the assurance, that the appointment of the third Commissioner was not the whim of one man but was a Cabinet decision. Nevertheless, this man's comment left the indelible impression upon me that he was a power broker as far as the redistribution was concerned. 
It was perhaps during June and most definitely at the latest early July that I heard how the Commissioners allegedly had been informed that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  was dispensable in this redistribution. Yes, this information was secondhand, but the honourable member for Bowman can testify to the truth that at least this claim was strongly stated and that the information had come from the Commission. I paid only a little attention to the claim because I considered it almost inconceivable that a Commission could approach its task in such a manner. Nevertheless the information was fairly well known. 
In August, after the House resumed for the Budget session, I informed the senior Queenslander that it was being alleged that he had been 'out to get' David Jull. I clearly recall this senior Queenslander 's response as he raised his right eyebrow and said that he had heard these allegations himself and was rather surprised because he had always believed that Queensland members were 'a fairly happy group'. I invite honourable members to recall the size of the report entitled 'Copies of the suggestions, comments or objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland'. They will remember that the thickest report for any State lodged with any Distribution Commissioners came from our State. 
One minute after the commencement of 10 August I learned that Cameron and my old seat of Griffith would be parted because of the action of the 'three men with a pen'. I accepted it at that time but, at a time of understandable disappointment, I could not help but re-hear the words 'not going to have a bar of them having their fingers in this redistribution'. My submission against the Commissioners ' proposals, as contained in page 276 of the report, was in this time of stress handed to the secretary of the person who appeared to swing so much power. I wanted him to know my objections in detail. I have no knowledge whatsoever of his drawing this to the attention of the Commissioners and I make no claim that he contravened section 22 of the Act by communicating to the Commissioners the senseless destruction they had rendered, politically speaking, in my then seat of Griffith. 
By early August reports were rife that one of the Commissioners had been so disenchanted with the way the redistribution had been carried out that for two days he refused to sign the report. In early October, in the presence of almost all, if not all, Queensland Liberals gathered at a meeting in this House, the senior Queenslander, after I raised the matter of the Commissioner's reluctance, snapped back saying: 'But he signed the final report, didn't he?' Errors can be made, but the impression gained by some was that he knew of this. In my mind, he confirmed a suspicion that he, a senior Queenslander, had a firm pipeline to the Commission. 
My suspicions had been mightily aroused when the final maps came out on 26 September. On 26 August this person attended a meeting in Brisbane and claimed that another prominent Queenslander, whose name will be left completely unspoken because there is no point in bringing it in, had rung him and for political reasons had suggested that the name of Mcpherson should go back to a seat which had been named 'Gold Coast' when the first maps came out on 10 August. The meeting agreed that the name 'McPherson' was the proper name for what had been called 'Gold Coast' and that it would suggest that the seat I now hold, which had originally been called 'McPherson' should be called 'Fadden'. It was left to Parliament to make this  decision because  it was in accordance with the Fox report of 1969, Parliamentary Paper No. 35. Not one suggestion, comment or objection calling for a change of names is contained in the Commissioners' report. Yet it happened. The potential political bomb, which Queenslanders would understand, was defused. At this point of time I was unable actually to prove that anyone had contact with the Commission, but my deep-rooted scepticism will be understood. 
Sometime in October, after the final maps came out, I commenced inquiries into the background of the Commissioners. I learnt that the Commonwealth Electoral Officer in Queensland was a former Divisional Returning Officer for the seat of McPherson. The following is in no way- I repeat, in no way- meant to implicate the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  I checked with that Minister's office to find more background on  Mr Coleman,  the Queensland Electoral Officer and the Chief Commissioner. Two days after my inquiry I was told by the Minister's secretary to check with a certain Queenslander because he had recommended  Mr Coleman's  appointment following the retirement of Queensland's previous Chief Electoral Officer. That such a recommendation was made is not extraordinary because governments of all political persuasions are faced with this task. However, it did prove a definite link existed between this senior Queenslander and  Mr Coleman  in the past and that he regarded  Mr Coleman  highly. 
At the end of October and in early November, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and I made various speeches highlighting an apprehension as to the impartiality and honesty of the Queensland redistribution. No one can condemn us for suspecting all was not right in the State of Denmark.  Mr Speaker,  on 30 October 1977, at 1 p.m., I had further cause for grave disquiet. A senior contender for the Liberal Party's nomination for the seat I now hold, whom I shall describe as  Mr X,  told me how at the request of 'a Minister' he had prepared a map of what Queensland's new and nineteenth seat should be and how, as he said, it came out exactly as I suggested'. He explained to me how he had included a large rural area to discourage anyone from the city from nominating. Some 10 days later in a conversation in my home he amended this claim to the effect that he had not included the Boonah subdivision in his submission because, to quote him, 'it was deadly'. I understood what he meant, following the National Party's high vote in that area. I ask for permission of the House to incorporate in Hansard a transcript of that conversation. It serves to verify that an earlier conversation did take place. 
Leave granted. 
-This is the one. 
-No. I am just incorporating it to verify that a certain event did take place. 

 The document read as follows- 

Don Cameron: Well, can I ask just one little  . . question? Why the . . . Boonah? 

 Mr X: I didn't want Boonah. Boonah was the only thing that wasn't in it. But Boonah, I acknowledged in the submission, that they might have to bring Boonah in for numbers, depending, but on how much growth was here. Actually the way its turned out I would say that Boonah shouldn't have been, because there is enough there anyway, but Boonah . . . even on the up to date Roll, when you find the final rush of people enrolled, you'd be way over quota. 
Don Cameron: Had you left out that whole subdivision of Boonah, or-? 

 Mr X: Yes, yes, Boonah 's deadly. 
Don Cameron: Because I frankly didnt't understand you- 

 Mr X: No, no. 
Don Cameron: When you had told me you had made a submission just as it came out. 

 Mr X: No, I'm sorry, I shouldn't have said that. What I said was the the boundary should come down round about here, to there. And I said that there should be enough because of the rate of growth up in here, but if you have to pick them up, well pick them up here and you know that's the way the . . . thing has turned out. But Shapcott is going to be hard to toss. 
-During the first conversation  Mr X  told me how he had put in a copy of his plan to the Liberal Party- this is quite legitimate, and I do not make complaints about him in this speech- in the early stages of redistribution. The Liberal Party did not accept his suggestion for the new seat but somehow, as it turns out, it came closer to the actual seat of Fadden than any submission recorded in the reports. The honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Bowman and I have now seen at Liberal Party headquarters his suggested seat. Whilst I concede that one can do anything with figures, I give him approximately 76 per cent for anticipating the final new seat. In comparison with the other submissions he got the high distinction. By this time I was really unsettled. Indeed, even weeks before, I was seriously considering the question of going down with the good ship Griffith. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  can testify to the truth of that. It is history now that I nominated for the seat of Fadden, won preselection against  Mr X,  and after a hard battle against such a respected notable as  Mr Clem  Jones I won the seat. 
On 27 October in this place I served warning of my intentions to pursue this matter. With the election behind me, and the worry of harming innocent colleagues well and truly disposed of, I made a speech referring to this matter at the declaration of the Fadden poll on 2 1 December. I seek the permission of the House to incorporate this speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

ADDRESS AT DECLARATION OF POLL IN FADDEN- 2 1 DECEMBER 1977 
More than half of Queensland's present federal Liberal senators and members who held office at the time of the redistribution, held and still hold the view that the federal redistribution in Queensland was subject to local outside interference. 
Among that group are people whose political fortunes were not affected one way or the other by the redistribution, and who cannot be accused of having an axe to grind. 
The minority group that remains unconcerned and unmoved, is comprised of members whose fortunes either remained intact, or were improved beyond their wildest dreams; and the 'fiddler'. 
A regrettable feature is that for more than a decade, when asked about the honesty of federal redistributions, I looked people straight in the eye in reply, in the belief that they were genuinely beyond outside interference. 
The Commonwealth Electoral Act requires the composition of the Redistribution Commission to include one Commonwealth public servant, one State public servant, and one other person whose occupation is not designated. 
The third person appointed on this occasion in Queensland was a Commonwealth public servant. 
The Act must be amended to exclude Commonwealth public servants from the third position. They are not beyond outside interference, because they are like everyone else, and have a keen eye for promotion. 
Queensland 's redistribution gave the ALP a fair go, but the interferer's motivation was not to 'get' that party. 
I indicated my disgust with veiled comments in the parliament some weeks ago. Now that I am back, and cannot be accused of indulging in a loser 's sour grapes, and my crusade will not endanger innocent colleagues, I feel free to expose the matter when parliament resumes. 
Federal redistributions have been placed on the reputed level of some State redistributions, and I serve warning on those involved that this matter will not rest here. 
M. CAMERON, M.P. 
Member for Fadden 
Following this I wrote to the Prime Minister drawing it to his attention. He, with others, saw the honourable member for Bowman, the honourable member for Lilley and me on 19 January in his office. The senior Queensland Liberal was also present, and much discussion ensued. The senior Queensland Liberal gave the assurance that in relation to the redistribution he had had no contact with the commissioners either directly or indirectly or in any way whatsoever at any time. Quite a firm commitment. We were informed that he had given this assurance to the Prime Minister previously. He also stated that it was only at about Christmas time that he had realised that the speeches in the House and at the declaration of the poll had been addressed to him. 
I agreed to the Prime Minister's request that the Solicitor-General should be asked to give a legal opinion on what I believed constituted evidence. The Attorney-General later became involved, and they concluded a prima facie case did not exist. In view of the assurance given to the Prime Minister- the statement that there was no contact with the commissioners either directly or indirectly at any time- in our presence and in view of his law officers ' advice it is more than understandable that the Prime Minister wanted the matter dropped and my assurance that I would pursue it no more. I declined to give that assurance, and I have no argument with his dismissal of me. Nevertheless, my unpreparedness to give up the chase was based on good reasons. 
I had witnessed my claims torn apart in the early stages on the grounds that I had not supporting evidence by way of statutory declarations or affidavits. Remembering how the senior Liberal had assured the Prime Minister and others at that meeting on 19 January that he had had no contact with the commissioners either directly or indirectly or in any way whatsoever I could not help but be deeply impressed by the following. I was told how at a luncheon in the town of Beaudesert on 26 July the senior Queensland Liberal had explained to those present the details of redistribution and how it would affect them. Honourable members will recall the dates of the Queensland program. This information was conveyed to 1 1 people at that luncheon- who knows at what  other places and  at other times, maybe even prior to that date. That was the case- no contact either directly or indirectly at any time. I found it difficult to accept. 
I shall now read a statutory declaration signed by four of the people who were at that luncheon. A fifth has since declared to me verbally her similar recollection of events. The statutory declaration states: 
We, the undersigned  of  Beaudesert, in the State of Queensland, do solemnly and sincerely declare that we were present at a meeting held at the Logan and Albert Hotel, Beaudesert on Tuesday, 26 July, 1977 and we have clear recollection of the following being said by the Honourable - 
I will call him  Mr Y- 
THAT (a) Beaudesert, Boonah, Woodridge and Kingston would form part of a new electorate, and THAT (b) the Gold Coast region would form a seat that would be called 'Gold Coast'. 
We further state that  Mr - 
This is  Mr X-  was promoting himself and was being promoted by the  Hon.  . . .  - 
That is  Mr Y-  as the candidate in the new electorate, as outlined by  Mr - 
That is  Mr Y-  before the commissioners had even announced the new boundaries. 
This document was signed by four individuals from the town of Beaudesert. I have not read out their names, but I assure the Parliament that they are all highly responsible individuals and were motivated by recent events to present me with this statutory declaration which was signed on 28 March. That luncheon was 15 days before the redistributions even came out. What is more, the  Mr X  is the man who claimed he was asked by 'a Minister'- remember that  Mr X  was the man being promoted and presenting himself as a candidateto draw up the map which scored approximately a 76 per cent success rate, without even having knowledge of how State-wide quotas would eventuate. 
The name 'Gold Coast*? It was later explained that the reason the commissioners changed the name back to McPherson was because it was a mistake. How does someone anticipate a mistake without having contact, directly or indirectly, at some stage? At heart I would prefer peace at any time. However, when I believe something is wrong I will pursue the matter until I expose it or am satisfied that all is above board. If that which incites others to hunt me into the ground be the exposure of that which seems to be outside the laws of this land, I can make no apology. I only express my sadness that circumstances exist to lead me to conclude that something is so dramatically wrong. 
In conclusion I wish to read an extract from the Logan and Albert  Times,  a newspaper in Beaudesert. The article refers only in part to the 1977 redistribution. The article does not point any bone at anyone. This is in an editorial in that newspaper. 
As an aside by the way, although it is historical fact now that we have the seat of Fadden through the redistribution of Federal boundaries, it was quite common knowledge even back to the early part of last year that Beaudesert would be withdrawn from its long-standing Gold Coast connections in the Federal scene, and become part of a new electorate which would also include the town of Boonah; common and public knowledge. 
I received a telegram during Question Time today from the former honourable member for Capricornia,  Mr Carige.  I seek leave to incorporate that telegram in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The telegram read as follows- 

Rockhampton Qld 132/123 9.57A 
Urgent . . . Donald Milner Cameron MP 
Member for Fadden Parliament House Canberra ACT 
Most intrigued by article appearing in today's Courier Mail concerning Federal redistribution. Mid November had disturbing telephone conversation with Chief Electoral Commissioner for Qld. How in Capricornia the division of major communities and cities at either end of electorate is considered electoral justice completely escapes me. Over 600 individuals lodged objections to no avail. Certainly was not in accord with amended Electoral Act of 1 977. Have made no public post election comment on this matter because may have only been misconstrued as being a case of sour grapes. Please feel free to contact me in Rockhampton telephone 274839 or 276841 . . . Colin Carige former member for Capricornia. 
In the telegram  Mr Carige  stated that he had had a disturbing telephone conversation with the Chief Electoral Commissioner for Queensland. At the end of his telegram he invited me to telephone him. I did. He informed me that on 1 December 1977 he had a discussion with a  Mr Coleman  about the National Aboriginal Conference election which was held a week after the State election. There were some problems and  Mr Carige  rang  Mr Coleman  about those problems. At the end of that conversation  Mr Carige  said to him: 'I do not know why I should even be bothered to talk to you after what you have done to my seat'. According to  Mr Carige,  whom I rang this morning and who actually took notes of the conversation,  Mr Coleman  said: 'It is not all my own work. I cannot and will not accept the blame on my own'. He then said: 'Others who ought to support you in fact did not '. 
I cannot draw too many conclusions from those words but that makes many honourable members on this side of the House believe that things were far from being above board. The honourable member for Bowman (  Mr Jull)  and I have never been convinced that all was well. There are other stories. I have only mentioned one that I cannot prove. There have been several cases where it has been reported that when the public objections, suggestions and comments went in the attitude was that the commissioners had been given an instruction that there were to be no alterations in Queensland. I hate doing anything like this. It distresses me. But I also have an obligation to the laws of this land. I believe that they have been flouted. What has really driven me on is that on the one hand we had a categorical denial that anything had taken place- an emphatic statement of denial that there had been any connection, direct or indirect, at any stage- and on the other we have the continuing saga of little pieces of advice and information coming from various parts of Queensland. We now have a statutory declaration to the effect that even two weeks before the redistribution was announced in Queensland a Minister of this Government- I feel in all fairness to  Mr Adermann  and  Mr Killen  I must name the other Minister- walked round the State toting the candidate to succeed him in the seat that he had felt was most suitable. If I have made a mistake and it can be proven that I have made a mistake, I will do what I said I would do in the Prime Minister's office on 19 January, that is, come in here  like  a man and say that I am wrong. But I cannot believe that I can be so wrong. At this point of time I still cannot come in and apologise to  Mr Robinson. 
-I present a report, together with the minutes of proceedings from the Committee of Privileges in connection with a matter referred to the Committee by the House of Representatives on 28 February 1978. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
-The report which I have just presented relates to the complaint raised in the House on 28 February 1978 by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and referred to the Committee by the House on that date. The complaint related to an editorial published in the Melbourne newspaper the  Sunday Observer  of 26 February 1978 under the heading of 'Political bludgers'. The Committee took evidence from  Mr P.  S. Isaacson, Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief, Peter Isaacson Publications Pty Ltd, owners and publishers of the  Sunday Observer,  and  Mr A.  L. Armsden, who at the time of publication of the editorial, was editor of the  Sunday Observer. 
The allegations contained in the editorial were examined by the Committee. It was satisfied that they were without foundation. In addition, the Committee considered that the editorial cast reflections upon members in such a way as to bring the House into contempt. The Committee found that publication of the editorial, in having reflected upon members of the House of Representatives in their capacity as such, constituted a contempt of the House of Representatives. It further found  Mr Isaacson  and  Mr Armsden  guilty of contempt of the House of Representatives. The Committee recommended in the case of  Mr Isaacson  that, in view of his expressions of regret made before the Committee and his publication of an adequate and acceptable apology, no further action be taken. In the case of  Mr Armsden,  the Committee recommended that in this instance his demeanour and actions were not worthy of occupying the further time of the House. 
The report of the Committee contains another recommendation of particular significance. The Committee strongly recommended that the whole question of parliamentary privilege should be referred to it for investigation and report to the House. Such reference should be couched in the broadest possible terms, covering such matters as the means by which complaints of breach of privilege are referred to the Committee, the method of investigation of the complaint by the Committee and the penalties which should be available to the House in respect of privilege offenders. 
The Committee believes that such a general review of parliamentary privilege is overdue. In 1966 the United Kingdom House of Commons appointed a Select Committee to review the law of parliamentary privilege as it affected that House and the procedure by which cases of privilege are raised and dealt with by that House and to report whether any changes in the law of privilege and practice of that House were desirable. That Committee presented a comprehensive report to the House of Commons in December 1967. A review of the 1967 recommendations was carried out by the House of Commons Committee of Privileges last year, and the Commons debated the matters and passed certain resolutions in respect of parliamentary privilege as recently as 6 February this year- just eight weeks ago. The Committee of Privileges believes that a similar review of the law of privilege as it affects this House is most desirable and will attract general support. It believes that it is the responsibility of the Parliament itself to undertake such an investigation and commends its recommendation to the House for its early consideration. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for Wednesday, 12 April 1978. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I have listened to the personal explanation of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  tonight and I say that I do not wish to alter, vary or retract anything that I said in this House last Friday, 7 April. The honourable members for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and I could not in conscience support the Opposition motion moved tonight by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Bowen).  The judicial inquiry proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was too narrow and restricted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Fadden must not refer to a previous debate that has taken place during today's proceedings. 
-Okay, I will talk about the one that took place last Friday. What we have contended for is a completely full judicial inquiry not restricted to one narrow section of the legislation and by other legal technicicalities. I cannot any more refrain from acquainting the House with the full contents of the statutory declaration which I hold and which I referred to last Friday. I now read that statutory declaration in full. It states: 
I, We, the undersigned of BEAUDESERT, in the State of Queensland, do solemnly and sincerely declare that we were present at a meeting held at the Logan and Albert Hotel, Beaudesert on Tuesday, 26th July, 1977 and we have clear recollection of the following being said by the  Hon.  E. L. Robinson. 
THAT (a) Beaudesert, Boonah, Woodridge and Kingston would form part of a new electorate, and THAT (b) the Gold Coast region would form a seat that would be called 'Gold Coast'. 
We further state that  Mr John  Teulan was promoting himself and was being promoted by the  Hon  E. L. Robinson as the Candidate in the new electorate, as outlined by  Mr 
Robinson, before the commissioners had even announced the new boundaries. 

<graphic href="108131197804103_71_0.jpg"></graphic>

The statutory declaration is witnessed by a Justice of the Peace.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I might inform you that another statutory declaration signed by two other persons who were at that luncheon is in the mail on its way to Canberra. For my own part I am completely prepared to submit myself to a full and unrestricted judicial inquiry into this whole matter. Justice will not be served by a narrow and restricted judicial inquiry such as that proposed tonight by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. Justice must not only be done; it must manifestly be seen to be done. A half-baked limited inquiry will satisfy nobody and a full and complete inquiry equivalent to a royal commission is the only satisfactory forum to hear and determine these matters. That is what the honourable members for Lilley and Bowman and I have been pressing for ever since we first arrived in the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 19 January this year. 
In conclusion I express a degree of sadness that the document prepared by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  and the SolicitorGeneral was tabled in the manner in which it was tabled last Friday. When I originally handed the Solicitor-General a paper which was virtually an aide memoire of several pages I did so in the belief it would remain confidential. I am not stating that it has been produced in this House, but regrettably the names of some persons were included in that document and unfortunately they were repeated in the paper produced by the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General. I had every intention of giving those people total confidentiality. When I spoke last Friday in this chamber I referred to those people by symbols and in one case I completely left out the name because it really was not important. Finally, I assure the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  that he made one mistake in a recent speech - 
As  chairman  of the Committee on Privileges my words will be brief. I share the view that in the course of justice it would be far better if  Mr Armsden  and  Mr Isaacson  had their cases dealt with separately from the further question of the reconsideration by the Committee of the whole question of parliamentary privilege. I ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  to consider this suggestion which has been put forward by others and to implement it if he sees a way of doing so. I frankly cannot see any difficulties which would confront him in disposing of the first part of the matter in this manner. I simply leave it with the Minister, reminding him that the Committee is a committee of the Parliament and that there is no political overtone or undertone in any way whatsoever in regard to this matter. 
As  Chairman  of the Committee of Privileges I support the comments of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that the embarrassing situation which confronted this chamber last night was caused by the Committee's action in going outside its terms of reference and including a recommendation in its report that the whole question of privilege be re-examined by the Australian Parliament setting up its own system of examining privileges. It was a difficult moment for the Minister and for some members of the Committee, including me. We were confronted with what we believed was a problem insofar as a breach of privilege had been found by the Committee and it seemed as though the matter would simply lie on the table until early May. Some honourable members expressed the view that justice had to be done and that the matter had to be disposed of as quickly as possible. I sincerely hope that the motives of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  have been appreciated in the cool and quiet atmosphere of today. They were well motivated and had sincere beliefs in terms of justice being done. 
I have nothing further to add to that, except to say that almost a week has passed since the report was presented. The House and indeed the public are very much aware that the Committee did find that a breach of privilege existed and that  Mr Isaacson  had of his own accord printed a withdrawal in the  Sunday Observer.  The Committee had come to the conclusion that the writer of that editorial, which some honourable members in this chamber found offensive, was not worthy- I forget the exact words used but this is the gist of them- of commanding any more time of this House. 
One would assume, from listening to the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  who preceded me in the debate, that the Liberal Government had in fact depleted the amount of money being made available for these various programs. I draw to his attention the fact that in this financial year the amount of money being made available for these programs is being increased by 12.28 per cent. So, in reality, the amount of money is not being cut back. Some $5m was made available for home care services in 1975-76, and in 1978-79 the estimate is that $ 10.5m will be made available. Far from the Liberal Government cutting back the amount of money being made available, it is in fact continuing with its pattern of increasing the allocation. Even though the Commonwealth's contribution is being reduced from a two-for-one basis to a one-for-one basis, the overall situation is that if the States are prepared to match the Commonwealth grants services will be able to be extended by virtue of the increase in the amount of money that the Commonwealth is making available. 
In the few moments available to me to speak tonight prior to the resumption of the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ), I wish to make reference to that section of this Act which relates to senior citizens centres. In my electorate of Fadden we have currently under way a project which has been made possible by the generosity of the Albert Shire Council and as a result of the hard work of volunteers. An application has been made to the State Government for approval to erect a senior citizens centre in the Woodridge district. I suggest to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that although I agree completely with the view that matters of this nature are better determined at a State government level by virtue of its proximity to the scene, I would very much like to see the Commonwealth having some say, or exercising a larger interest than may have happened in the past in determining whether these projects are needed. 
I do not mean any reflection on the State Government of Queensland, of course- this comment could apply equally to all States- but I often wonder, in cases where State governments have the total say in allocating such a large Commonwealth contribution, such as in this case where we are providing $2 for every $1 provided by the State, whether or not politics might sometimes enter into the determination. I wonder whether in, say, South Australia or New South Wales, which are both Labor States, the Labor Premier or a Labor member might sometimes go to the responsible Minister and say: 'I would rather have the project located in my electorate. How about putting it up the line and giving it a higher priority'. 
The Woodridge project is to be located on the edge of an electorate represented by a Liberal MLA and, by a matter of yards, just outside an electorate represented by a Labor MLA. Here we are in the middle. I simply hope that the No. 6 position which that project holds in Queensland at the moment is in no way affected by any decision taken out of the ordinary. I hope that its No. 6 position is retained. In fact, it should be placed further up the list because this is an area of great need. I ask the Minister to take back to the Minister for Social Security, and perhaps even to Cabinet, the suggestion that, since the Commonwealth is paying out $2 for every $ 1 put up by the State Government, this is a matter in relation to which the Commonwealth should say:  We recognise your greater ability to exercise discretion because of your closeness to the scene but we like to ensure that, in cases where need is real and great, because of our contribution, projects concerned with areas of need will be given some priority over projects in areas which may not have such a demand or need '. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Goodluck)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development whether his attention has been drawn to the announcement by the Queensland State Government Insurance Office Building Society of a reduction of one half of one per cent on interest rates for new homes. With the announcement in the Budget relating to the deferral of payments under the home savings grants scheme, will the Minister give consideration to the proposition that there should be a shorter waiting period for grants for the purchase of new homes than for the purchase of existing homes in order to provide a stimulus to the construction industry? 
I take this opportunity to express the hope that when appointments to this committee are made high office bearers such as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and others will adopt an attitude which recognises that over the last three or four years Australia has accepted the vast changes that were made in relation to family law and we will not have the type of committee which would return us to the pre-Family Law Act days. 
It frightens me that the honourable member for Swan responds by saying that he wants to go back to the pre- 1975 days. I recognise that the current Act needs alteration. The Bill which was introduced proposed vast changes. Those who supported the Bill knew at the time of its introduction that they were not supporting perfection but rather were supporting a change, bearing in mind that in the years ahead the Act would be re-examined and any weaknesses which showed up as a result of experience could be altered. The interjection of the honourable member for Swan has reinforced my fears rather than allayed them. Whilst I hope that the committee will have on it a representative of the views of the honourable member for Swan, I hope also that it will not be made up entirely of men with views similar to those of the honourable member. That certainly would be an unbalanced committee. It needs to be a balanced committee representing all spectrum's of thought. I conclude by making a plea to the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition and others who will decide on the appointment of suitable people to the committee that they put aside their own personal prejudices and views and appoint a balanced committee which can review the Act with the balance that Australia craves at this time. 
Remainder of resolution agreed to. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that two private health funds in Queensland- the Hibernian Medical and Hospital Benefits Fund, Queensland's third largest fund, and the Ancient Order of Foresters have become insolvent this year? Is the Minister aware that such an event could cause disastrous financial hardship to members of those funds who are in the midst of treatment or care and in some cases these people will be faced with the responsibility of paying medical bills in the four figure category? Will the Minister regard as urgent the seeking of means to ensure that no health fund- including Medibank- will be allowed, prior to corrective action being taken, to reach the stage where it cannot meet its commitments? Finally, when the new universal health scheme commences on 1 November, will people be covered for the Commonwealth benefit if the fund to which they belong finds itself in financial difficulty? 
I wish to speak for a few moments about a person who was not a leader of a nation, not a spiritual leader, but an entertainer extraordinaire. I refer to a person who was buried today in Sydney. I do not intend indulging in a form of words which refers to a personal association with this person whom I was privileged to know. But those who watch the news or who will read tonight's or tomorrow's newspapers will learn that the Catholic Church at Waverley was packed out and hundreds of mourners spilled into the street during the funeral service for the late John Michael O 'Keefe. During the panegyric a Christian Brother who taught John O 'Keefe at school and who became his lifelong friend asked those assembled to ponder upon 'just what did he do for you?' The Christian Brother was referring to the man's generosity to his fellow man. 
He was not by any stretch a wealthy man but he willingly gave to those in need even if such giving added a burden to his own shoulders. Besides supporting charities and the poor he gave himself to the cause of promoting his belief that when it came to entertainment we Australians can provide it without relying on importations or without total reliance on aping. There are honourable members on both sides of this chamber who have been Ministers with a portfolio associated with the media who can testify to the fact that at some stage they were visited by this entertainer who was attempting to promote the availability of our own material and to ensure that Australians were given a fair chance to receive the exposure which is necessary to build up acclaim and support. Undoubtedly he will be remembered by different people for different things. But without doubt he dedicated his life to the promotion of the Australian product. 
I make the concluding observation that the number of Australians who have been saddened by his death and the number of Australians who turned out for his funeral in Sydney today indicate that an Australian has the capacity in any field to make a hit within his own country. The people who have dipped their lids to this man show that he made the grade and proved that that in which he believed was truly possible. We all have something to contribute to this world. We all contribute in a different way. Some of us are noticed more than others. Some of us have a more lasting impact. 
-Some of us change the course of history, as my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  so helpfully did. An entertainer in his own right makes his own contribution. That this Australian was able to make such an impact in an area which was previously regarded as the sole forte of overseas entertainers is a great tribute to his own peronsal tenacity and his ability to sell something which was originally made in Australia. 
-Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister aware that there exists in the community much argument and animosity about the degree of generosity extended to Commonwealth public servants because of their superannuation scheme. In view of the fact that this animosity is most harmful to the image of public servants and may be ill-founded, will the Minister take steps to obtain a comparative actuarial analysis with other schemes in Australia, particularly in the private sector, and establish how many people benefit from each scheme? Will he then make the findings available to members of this Parliament for consideration? 
-by leave- As one who was a member of a tourism committee which preceded the appointment of this Select Committee on Tourism, I congratulate the Committee on the work it has accomplished under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and his predecessor, the now retired member for Herbert,  Mr Bonnett.  This Committee was really a very high powered committee insomuch as it also had the advantage of having as members the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart),  who is a former Minister in charge of tourism, and the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is a former Minister for Transport. They, along with the other members of the Committee, made it a well balanced committee. 
I have always believed that Australian governments, whether they be of Liberal or Labor persuasion, badly underestimate the value of tourism to this country. Every government indulges in exercises of nipping half a million dollars here or a million dollars there off various areas of government expenditure; yet they continue to play a very minor role in assisting the very important industry of tourism. Some countries rely almost totally on tourism to survive. Tourism, if examined, can be found to provide great wealth for a country with something to offer and, if exploited properly, can bring about almost a balance of payments. Some countries regard tourism as the means of putting the icing on their cake. Yet we in Australia continue to approach the subject in a most unprofessional manner. If we were to take away from this continent the wealth of Queensland- I am not being parochial- and of Western Australia, Australians would realise that Australia was not such a lucky country any more. We virtually live in a fool's paradise brought about by our great mineral wealth. I am quite certain that if the wealth in those two States did not exist we would be far more desperate in exploiting, and would need to exploit, the opportunities which are available in this area. 
Australia is a long way away from much of the rest of the world. Therefore we have an immediate disadvantage. But what we should be doing is at all times setting about to make it as attractive as possible and as economical as possible for people from other parts of the world to come to Australia. American tourist package deals usually offer four days in Tahiti, four day in New Zealand and four days in Australia. Australians say: 'Tut, tut! How can you expect to see Australia in four days?' That is a very unreal attitude, because when people live on the other side of the world they do not want to go back home and just say: 'I have been to Australia for twelve days'. There is something about people that makes them want to cram in as much as they can. That American market is a very specialised market. We should be directing our efforts very much to the European market, whilst of course paying close attention to the American market. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  indicated his open mind on the subject of penalty rates and the effect they have on the industry. The honourable member for Newcastle indicated a view that it was none of the business of this Parliament or of the Committee. Despite the previous speakers' comments, I venture to offer a view. My view is based on the vast changes which have come about in the field of service in Australia in more recent years. At one major motel in Canberra a person cannot get an early morning wake-up call before 7 a.m. because there are simply no staff on duty between about 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. At one very major hotel-motel in Brisbane there is now no room service available between the hours of 8.30 p.m. and 7 a.m. I was speaking to the owner of a very well known hotel in Sydney who came into the hotel one Sunday evening to examine personally the high cost he incurred in providing porter service. He worked out that on that Sunday evening it cost him almost $9 per house guest simply to have someone carry the guests' luggage to their rooms. That high cost was brought about by penalty rates. 
Whilst the honourable member for Robertson has stated that he has an open mind on the subject, what I believe has happened is that a lot of the people in the industry have simply cut out service, or cut it right back to a very bare minimum during these particular times. 
-The honourable member for Canberra is showing remarkable insight insomuch as he underlines the fact that jobs have been done away with. But tourism can offer almost a new hope for tomorrow in terms of job opportunities if we in Australia grasp the nettle and develop tourism properly. Tourism is very much a service industry and, if we went about it sensibly and even reconsidered the question of penalty rates and the actual effect these rates have had, maybe we could provide another 50,000 jobs in this country for our fellow Australians. Australia, the smallest continent in the world and the largest island in the world, has a lot to offer the world. I am quite convinced that all governments of all political persuasions have not really done a very good job in the field of tourism. 
Finally, I want to refer to the Stockmans Hall of Fame. This is an historic building which is going to accommodate much history of this country by way of a collection of items which have been used in the past by country people. My friend the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is not here at the moment, but he was vitally connected with this project. 
-The honourable member for Denison suggests that the honourable member for Kennedy is pan of that museum, which I think is most unfair. Here we have an example of limited foresight insomuch as a decision has been made to place a $6m museum in a country town called Longreach. I have nothing against Longreach. The only problem in relation to practicalities is that it is hundreds and hundreds of kilometres from the sea. Here is something which would be an attraction to overseas visitors, yet at a time of very high internal air fares we are putting it hundreds and hundreds of kilometres out of the way. 
I notice that a  Mrs Katter  made the announcement about this museum. I am not suggesting that it is a family arrangement, but a  Mrs Katter  seems to be connected with the project. So I make a plea to the honourable member for Kennedy to consider the suitability of a place called Boonah which happens to be in my electorate. It is situated in the hinterland of Brisbane and the Gold Coast in the Fassifern Valley. The Gold Coast is represented by my colleague, the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and it is a most popular tourist area. Brisbane is a city of today and tomorrow. Hundreds of thousands of people visit there. If the Stockmans Country Hall of Fame were only 70 or 80 miles from Brisbane or 90 miles or so from the Gold Coast it would ensure not only that this $6m investment was a viable proposition financially but also that people from all over Australia and- more significantly for the wealth of this country- from all over the world would see this country's humble beginnings. Certainly they are far different from the picture which is portrayed in the American produced western movies. But Australia has its true West. I submit that proper consideration should be given to placing this museum or Stockmans Hall of Fame in Boonah. That would be more realistic than having it in the town of Longreach, hundreds of miles from centres where people could have access to it. 
-My Victorian friend asks me where Boonah is. I will see him after I conclude this speech. I wish to conclude where I began and that is by congratulating the Committee on its work. Australia and the Parliament have been well served by its efforts. 
I wish to take up the point made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He confirmed the view which is held by many that governments look for political allegiance from First Division public servants. I state my firm conviction that whether the person concerned is a First, Second, Third or Fourth Division public servant by virtue of his very occupation he has an obligation to serve various governments with the same dedication and integrity as he served previous governments or would serve later governments. I was rather saddened to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide make the point that sometimes people have to be sent off to Geneva because of the unacceptability of political views. I would hate to see the endorsement in this country of the principles which exist in the United States of America where governments unashamedly appoint people to high positions. Australia has a different system. Regardless of the political persuasion of a particular government it should be able to rely on the integrity of its First, Second, Third and Fourth Division public servants to serve it as faithfully as they did any previous government. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that people would be promoted to see that a new government's policies were carried out. That is the very crux of my previous contribution. I do not believe governments whether Labor or Liberal should have to move people sideways or send them to Geneva or Peking simply to see the government 's policies implemented. If the government of the day says to the head of a department that policies should be implemented in a certain way the policies should be so implemented regardless of the views of the First or Second Division officers of the Public Service. 
Rolling stones gather no moss. I am not entering into that debate. I am giving my view. I inform my friend that I have not had such a bad year. As the honourable member sits in Opposition next year, the year after and the year after that he can determine who has the success in this place. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill, as reported from Legislation Committee, agreed to. 
I direct my question to you,  Mr Speaker.  Do you share my view that very few Australians have been or are in a position to be properly aware of the sheer enormity of the remaining potential and capacity of computers? Without intending a reflection, do you agree that there is a possibility that many members and senators may have had little opportunity to become acquainted with the latest and future uses of computers? Computers continue to replace people in the work force and it is now obvious that varying degrees of unemployment will be a national problem in the future. For that reason and for an educative purpose, will you,  Mr Speaker,  contact members and senators to establish whether sufficient interest exists to warrant  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  arranging a suitable course during next year's autumn session so that members and senators can become better acquainted with this established 20th century innovation? 
Prior to his entry into Parliament, the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  was an employer in private industry. 
I am reminded that he still is. I wonder whether he follows the policy which he has stated is suitable for the Government, in that he gives his own staff paternity leave and excess maternity leave? 
-The honourable member did not answer my question other than to say that he offers the best working conditions in Australia. Perhaps that question was a very pointed one and touched a very soft spot. In speaking to this amendment - 
-He employs only men. In order to avoid any danger of his staff members becoming pregnant, he will not even give women job opportunities. If ever there was a sexist in this House, it is the honourable member for Robertson. Turning to a more serious aspect of this subject, I endorse the comments of the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  who pointed out that the Government is not stripping away the rights to take leave of women in the Public Service who fall pregnant. I readily concede that the Labor Government in 1973 did improve the previous provisions which were initially introduced by the Liberal Government in 1966. We introduced maternity leave without pay. Labor went the extra mile and introduced paid maternity leave but unfortunately, as is typical of the Australian Labor Party, it was careless in its excesses. It built a system which, regrettably, has been manipulated and taken advantage of by some unscrupulous female public servants. 
I join with the honourable member for Robertson in expressing some wonderment as to why the figure of 12 months was set. Nine months is the normal period of gestation and it is very hard to plan pregnancy. Something could happen in a three-month period which was not planned and therefore a person could suffer some slight disadvantage by virtue of the very thrust of this legislation. It is proper to read into  Hansard  some sections of the second reading speech. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and 
Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  said that there would be a deletion of paternity leave and an introduction of a qualifying period of one year before maternity leave is available. He then said:   . . however, leave provisions, without pay, will continue to apply in the first year of service. . . . 
He went on to say:   . . removal of automatic access to sick leave, but sick leave to be available under normal conditions; and standardisation of the amount of payment for leave for maternity purposes at twelve weeks pay. 
The honourable member for Macquarie made mention of an isolated case of total abuse. The honourable member for Robertson said that every system has its abuses and therefore we should not alter the system. I contend that it is not just employees in the public sectorCommonwealth employees- who have been subjected to the effects of a tightening up by this Government of loose provisions. So also have those members of the private sector who have manipulated various weaknesses in the taxation legislation to their own advantage. What the honourable member for Robertson was saying is that we need not alter the taxation legislation just because some people can flout the tax laws. The honourable member has left the chamber, but I ask: Is he going to stand in this chamber and seriously extend to other areas the principle he enunciated in relation to this particular amendment? Consistency would require that he does so and consistency would underline the weaknesses of the argument. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had made some comments on this Bill, the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Amendment Bill, and the Superannuation Amendment Bill. It is a pity that on this Thursday night when the proceedings of this Parliament should be broadcast, an industrial dispute in Sydney is preventing the nation from being able to tune into the Parliament. I suppose we have to take the good with the bad. 
-That is a very sensitive subject. I inform the House that after the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, made some comments last June or July foreshadowing changes in the maternity leave provisions, I received five phone calls from both men and women who were concerned about those provisions, either because they were men married to female public servants or, alternatively, being women, because they were planning families. They all rang me to find out when the change was likely to take effect. No one expressed opposition to the foreshadowed change, and I gleaned from my conversation with them that they felt that the system that had existed up until that time was more than generous. 
We have already been told by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  that some 70 per cent of the women who take advantage of the 12 weeks leave with pay, and who have access to a longer fully paid absence from work, return to work within a period of 12 weeks. He also mentioned that another 2 per cent to 3 per cent of those women have become pregnant and needed to take the leave within the first 12 months of their employment. In reality, we are talking about some 25 per cent to 27 per cent of female public servants whose leave has exceeded the period of 12 weeks. The previous  speaker  on this side of the House, the honourable member for Macquarie cited the example of a woman who took sick leave, which accrues at a fairly rapid rate, and her holiday leave and in fact was absent from work on full pay for some 52 weeks. I do not contest the 12-weeks provision, but I cannot for the life of me see why, because a woman has a particular job, she should have an advantage over the rest of the Australian work force. With 40 weeks leave available in addition to the 12 weeks, if that person commanded a salary of $200 a week, during that period she would receive a subsidy of some $8,000 from the taxpayers' purse to have a child, and that is a subsidy not available to most other Australians. 
I hold the view that most public servants have such pride in their profession that they too would like to see the system altered to cut out the malingerers, the saboteurs and the exploiters of the scheme. They do not enjoy the taint which is frequently attached to the Service when people in the Service are seen to be exploiting the provisions that are available. A suggestion has been made from the other side of the House that we have been totally heartless, and no doubt the next Australian Labor Party speaker will hammer the line that we take everything away from everybody. The facts are that 12 weeks fully paid leave is still available for a person who has been in the Service in excess of 12 months. If a woman has not recovered at the end of that 12-week period she has access to her sick leave entitlements as long as she provides a doctor's certificate. 
-Great stuff: That is the sort of comment I would expect from the honourable member for Melbourne. So many Labor members foster the view in the community that sick leave is something that should be taken at any time if a person has not already taken it. I have always held the view that sick leave is available in the event of a person becoming ill and being unable to carry on working. I also hold the view that if a person does not take sick leave because he does not get sick he is fortunate and that does not mean that he has to take off three or four weeks 'on the boss' because his sick leave is unused. That is my view and I make no apology for it. I am quite sure that thinking Australians would concur with the view I have expressed. 
I do not wish to make any further comments on that Bill but would like to refer to the Superannuation Amendment Bill. I recall to the House a question I directed to the Minister at the table on 1 9 October, and I will read it: 
Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister aware that there exists in the community much argument and animosity about the degree of generosity extended to Commonwealth public servants because of their superannuation scheme? In view of the fact that this animosity is most harmful to the image of public servants and may be ill-founded, will the Minister take steps to obtain a comparative actuarial analysis with other schemes in Australia, particularly in the private sector, and establish how many people benefit from each scheme? Will he then make the findings available to members of this Parliament for consideration? 
I will not read the Minister's reply, but he gave no such undertaking. I am not criticising him for that; it is his prerogative to answer as he wishes. However, following the publicity surrounding that question a number of public servants rang me and suggested that I was being critical. I explained to them that I asked for a study to be made because there is so much comment without real knowledge in the community about the superannuation available to Commonwealth public servants. I really and truly believe that this Government has an obligation to make a comparative study of the major superannuation schemes available in this country. It could well turn out that Commonwealth public servants are treated far from generously. It could also turn out that they are most generously treated. Very few people have the capacity or the facilities to get down to the task of making such comparisons, but the Government has an acturarial section which specialises in superannuation. It has access to this manpower. I believe that in the long term interests of this country a great benefit would accrue if a proper study were made on a comparative basis. I am not simply saying that if Commonwealth public servants turned out to be exceedingly well looked after that that would be the end of the benefit of such a study. What I am suggesting is that if employers throughout the country had something to look at and compare we could stabilise the superannuation which is offered. Commonwealth public servants in Brisbane have said to me that they would love to be in the Queensland Public Service superannuation scheme because in comparison it is infinitely more generous than the scheme to which they contribute. 
I am directing my comments to the Minister. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Melbourne will shortly have the opportunity to debate the subject. The honourable member for Fadden will address his remarks to the Chair. 
I would like the Minister to take great note of the fact that contrary to the comments he made in response to my question on 1 9 October there is a lot of feeling within the community. He has the staff available to make this study. I believe that the whole nation would be more enlightened and have a better understanding of exactly what is being given to different sections of the community if such a study were made. We can find out how much money people are paid through various awards which exist throughout the country. That is public knowledge. But it is hard to know what is happening in the superannuation arena. I conclude with the comment that when it comes to the expenditure of public money the public has the right to know what is going on. The Minister might well say that I could sit down and do the work and find the answer. I think it is the Queensland Employers Federation who wrote to the Minister saying that if he could provide the information it would be interested because with all its efforts it had been unable to obtain the information necessary to make a study such as I suggested. 
Briefly, I wish to associate myself with this important step. The Government has decided to update the penalties imposed on those who flout the quarantine laws of this country and thus endanger the livelihood of Australian rural producers. The great advantage that Australia has by being an island can be destroyed by the unthinking actions of a handful of people. The nation could be thrown into complete chaos as a result of somebody trying to make a profit by importing a foreign bird with some exotic disease. The entire poultry flock could be wiped out. Other repercussions could be equally as damaging. In view of the newly emerging diseases such as Lassa fever and the Marburg virus, along with old-timers such as foot and mouth and Newcastle disease, we cannot help being forever vigilant in ensuring that this country is protected. 
I have promised the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that my comments will be brief. In the interests of the man on the land the Government should update the penalties in a Bill of this nature more often than every 10 years. We should build into this sort of legislation a provision which ensures that, say, every two years the penalties automatically will be reviewed and increased in line with the rate of inflation. I know that we have been assured by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that within a few months the rate of inflation will be down to 5 per cent. Even so, at the end of a two-year period the value of penalties provided in legislation will have eroded significantly. Regrettably and unfortunately as the value of the penalties diminishes because of inflation, the half-wits who endanger the livelihood of Australians, particularly rural producers, will think that the risk is worth while and will engage in illegal practices. 
One of the most incredible things to witness in this Parliament is the way that honourable members who were previously seated on this side can so quickly forget events of the past when they take their seats on the other side. It was only on 6 November that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  when in Broadbeach, Queensland, at the Building Workers Industrial Union conference, said: 
A Labor government would not have raised the cost of beer, cigarettes, clothing, footwear and petrol in the recent Budget. 
It was only tonight that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  repeated those sentiments. Yet in 1975, the last year of the Labor Administration, it gave the price of beer a boot along once again, by adding more excise. The Labor Government again kicked up the excise on tobacco. It was also during its administration that it gave the hike to the price of petroleum products. Well may the member for Adelaide drink water in the comfort of the fact that he has regained his seat and does not have to face the comments from this side of the House once again. Well may he gain comfort in conversation with the Clerks of this Parliament to seek guidance as to what steps he may take in the next moment, but there is no escaping the fact that the Labor Party, when in government, not only turned on the taps of the rum kegs but booted everything along and even made the price of a postage stamp jump like a kangaroo. Little wonder that he holds his right hand to his brow, suppressing the beat - 
I am reminded he has swapped hands. Whilst supporting the Government on these necessary moves, I make certain comments which should be borne in mind for the future. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is at the table, because I do not believe him to be an insensitive Minister or that some of the measures which have been undertaken are completely at the behest of his Department; rather are they instructional changes at the hands of Treasury. It is to Treasury which I direct the following comments. When Treasury decides that it is time for a hike in excise on beer, spirits, et cetera, it indicates little appreciation or understanding of the effect that such a movement has on the market. I do not refer simply to the downturn in consumption but rather to the effect on the small businessman and, in some cases, the not so small businessman whose business is involved in the marketing of these products. 
Whilst the Government's increase in excise on spirits is a nominal figure, the effect on that actual bottle on the shelf on the day prior to the introduction of the Budget compared to the day after the introduction of the Budget is vast. For instance, I cite the example of rum which prior to the Budget marketed at a figure of approximately $6.95 and now sells at a price in excess of $11. Yet successive Treasurers are advised not to relent in any way on the demand that those who wholesale spirits must pass over the collection of excise within seven days. Far removed is Canberra from the real markets of Australia because the facts of life are that in the real business world people pay their accounts within a period of 30 to 60 days. Not only do we increase the excise but indirectly and unannounced in the Budget is the demand that those who supply the product to the retailers must pay the extra amount of money still within seven days. It means that we have businesses scurrying off to banks and lending institutions for the purpose of acquiring extra credit That is but one way whereby a Budget or an announcement which increases the excise has an effect on the consuming public and the wholesaler. I do make a plea to the Minister at the table, whilst I readily concede that a government, the tax collector or the customs collector never loses, that for a change they adorn themselves with the cloak of humanity and understanding and realise that for the small business man and for the not so small business man life is not so assured as the business world is a struggle. 
Frequently, measures introduced by government have ramifications far beyond the understanding and comprehension of people living here in the gold lined coffin which represents the nation's capital. Life is not so easy away from the Austraiian Capital Territory. I know small business men who at this very moment are in great difficulty simply as a result of trying to meet the demands of government that they make their payments within seven days. I make a strong plea to the Minister at the table that he really take this into consideration and realise that with the high cost of servicing borrowed money this can make the difference between a business that is viable and a business that goes to the wall. It is ironic that the South Australian who spoke before me made but passing comment on the future of the rum industry in Queensland. It would seem almost as if someone in his party room stood up and said: 'Chris, do not forget to mention rum when you make your speech '. 
I make mention of the Beenleigh Rum Distillery in my electorate because for far too long now Australians have adored a product with the marketable and acceptable name of Bacardi, a magic word, which has meant that millions upon millions of dollars have poured out of this country to Brazil. Yet in Queensland we have the facilities, quality control and development to produce a product which would more than satisfy the needs of the rum consuming community of this country. Governments of all political colours have continued to forget the existence of a most acceptable local product, whether it be Beenleigh or Bundaberg rum, as both producers have the capacity and the product to fulfil the needs of Australians. Whilst my friends, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  become upset- is that the right word? 
... disturbed at what is happening to brandy, I simply mention in passing that a more sympathetic attitude to the promotion of Australian rum would ensure the cessation of the outflow of millions of Austraiian dollars on imported rum. 
In conclusion, I make reference to the excise increase on petroleum products. I truly understand and accept that, if Australia is to continue to have the advantage of prices for petroleum products lower than the average throughout the world, we must expand our search for oil. I accept that without any qualification whatsoever. 
Well may the honourable member for Wakefield need a dose. Whilst I say that, I express the view that the Government has a definite obligation continually to explain to the Australian public what we are all about and why the price of petroleum products must be increased- basically to increase the search. In referring to this aspect, I wish to make reference to the amount of money allocated in the August Budget to the national energy conservation publicity campaign and the $5.7m to encourage coal research, and other expenditure. All this money is being spent in the name of energy. Yet, for the life of me, I do not understand why we continue to impose sales tax on solar appliances. Items such as pool heating are taxed at 1 5 per cent and appliances for industrial uses are taxed at 15 per cent. Household heating appliances are taxed at  2Vi  per cent and replacement components are taxed at 15 per cent. 
I see the Deputy Government Whip within feet of me. Knowing the power he possesses, I will not push my luck too far. I simply say that I find it totally inconsistent that we still apply sales tax to solar appliances, yet we continue to raise money from other taxes in the name of searching for alternatives and to curb the use of fuels. I know that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs who is at the table is listening closely to what I am saying. I hope that the next time he is at a Cabinet meeting he will awaken that group of wise men to the inconsistencies which exist. 
I realise that what I am about to say in this grievance debate is perhaps more appropriately a matter for consideration by governments at local and State government level. However, I believe that a sufficiently serious situation arises in our community to justify my raising the matter in this place. Besides, we have also recently seen 
Federal Government intervention on the question of petrol pricing where the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has foreshadowed intentions in relation to the Government endeavouring to protect the retailer from the large oil company combines. Furthermore, there is another example of Federal Government intervention and protection of business in the form of the existence of the Foreign Investment Review Board which is designed to protect local industry from foreign takeover. 
The subject which I intend raising is a more recent development in our community, that is, the creation of these huge drive-in shopping centres throughout various areas of Australia. My electorate is a growth area. The electorate of Fadden would probably be the fastest growing area in Australia. Therefore it is natural that if people have a keen eye for business they would be looking towards the area which I am privileged to represent in this Parliament. My attention has been drawn to the fact that there will be approximately 10 of these huge shopping complexes within a small radius in my electorate by the end of 1979. 1 am referring to something which creates problems for me insomuch as I believe in the private enterprise system and, as far as competition is concerned, I also believe that the market establishes balances. But I find it difficult to accept that free enterprise should be allowed to work in such a way that it destroys so many others who have contributed so much over the years. 
I believe that we are seeing a vast change take place in our society in that the traditional shop owner, store keeper or professional businessman who has his business in a suburb is being turned from a shop owner to a person who simply pays rent. Day after day we are seeing the closure and ruination of many established businesses as a result of the creation of these Taj Mahals across the country. Regrettably local governments, as are other levels of government, often are pressed for funds and see the creation of one of these complexes as a cheap way to solve some traffic problem in a particular area. Probably they often receive some other benefits which are unknown to others as a result of approving these sites. 
I acknowledge that change is always about us and that nobody can stop what is often described, perhaps, incorrectly, as progress. I point out to the big combines, such as Woolworths Ltd, G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd, AMP Society and in Queensland the State Government Insurance Office, which has an involvement in this field and to all others, that they have an obligation to the rest of the community. Whilst they also have an obligation to those people who have invested in their companies, whether they be policy holders or shareholders, that does not give them licence to disregard the existence of other people. Many years ago we saw the expansion of retail outlets for oil companies at such a prolific rate that only a few years later we saw the results of those unwise earlier decisions. We are now seeing the proliferation of these huge complexes. Whilst I am not suggesting that we are reaching the stage of having a complex on every corner, as occurred with service stations, we are reaching a stage where one of these huge complexes is on almost every second corner. 
Indeed my new office in the suburb of Sunnybank will be next to a K-Mart. Another huge shopping centre is diagonally across the road and at the moment a battle is going on for the establishment of a third complex. I recognise that these complexes can be beneficial to the public in terms of parking, prices and the conglomeration of assorted stores in one area. I concede all that. But what I do not concede is the justification given by the giants that state that they are creating employment. The only part of that suggestion that I will concede is that they are creating opportunities for the construction industry. Generally the long-term effect is that if 100 or 200 people start work in the new complex one can be fairly certain that at least 100 to 1 50 people away from that area will lose their jobs because shops will have to close. 
There is a danger that the surburban business centre in the future will become simply a ghost centre. When one realises that many people in small business have invested all their savings and turned all their profits into giving themselves some security, it is rather strange that levels of government that really have a responsibility to those people should turn a blind eye to their being destroyed virtually overnight. I simply say that there is room for the new complexes and the stores of yesterday to work together. Both systems can work side by side. But for this to happen there will have to be some rationalisation and somewhere along the way someone will have to take decisions as to the number of these new complexes, whether it be local government, State government or those companies which are creating these huge complexes. They will have to get together and say: 'You have gone into that area. Not only do we have to consider the fact that we have to be some distance away from you before another such complex will be viable, but also we have to consider that there are a lot of established businesses in that area. ' 
Finally, I will briefly make reference to another subject. A question was asked today by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  about sandmining and restoration and we heard the reply from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  I recently took time off to visit Stradbroke Island where sandmining companies have revegetated areas which have been mined. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wil make a very brief contribution to this debate. I have every right as a Queenslander to do so. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

As this is the first day of the Parliamentary sittings for the New Year I convey to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to  Mr Speaker  my best wishes for a most happy 1979. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  early in his speech referred to the difficulty confronting some of his constituents in that they had to walk half a mile to catch a train. In my electorate many people can walk up to 100 miles and still not find a passenger train to board. It never ceases to amaze me how representatives of purely city electorates have such little understanding of the difficulties confronting non-urban dwellers. Many of my constituents would dearly love to be able to walk half a mile secure in the knowledge that some form of public transport would be available. They just do not clamour for the repainting of a waiting shed. They live in hope for, and look forward to the day when a train service will be provided. 
To try to correct the situation which currently exists in my electorate, I want to bring to the attention of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  a most exciting and innovative suggestion. It is a suggestion which will not cost a lot of money. Frequently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has stated that he is interested in the ideas of people who can make suggestions which are not costly to implement. On behalf of the electors of Fadden, which embraces the outskirts of southern Brisbane and south-eastern Queensland, I put forward an idea for the Federal Minister for Transport to take to the New South Wales Minister for Transport and the Queensland Minister for Transport. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Transport is listening very closely to what I am saying. 
An interstate railway line runs from Sydney to Brisbane. Between the New South WalesQueensland border, which is the commencement of my electorate, and the outskirts of Brisbane this railway line passes very close to many residents of my electorate.  (Quorum formed).  I thank the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  for increasing the size of the audience in the chamber. As I was saying, the railway line from Sydney to Brisbane runs through my electorate, which starts at the New South WalesQueensland border. That railway line passes very close to a large number of residents of the Federal electorate of Fadden. Brisbane, like many other cities, has reached its peak in many ways. People are now moving out of the great cities and establishing living districts in areas which perviously were never considered to be areas for close habitation. 
That railway Une is used but twice a day by passenger trains running from Sydney to Brisbane and from Brisbane to Sydney. Of course, a number of goods trains run on the line. I suggest to the House that it would be excellent if the New South Wales Government could be encouraged to lend the Queensland Government a rail motor- we all know that Queensland and New South Wales have different railway line gauges- to run on this line so that once or twice a day a train could travel from the outskirts of Brisbane places like Browns Plains, Greenbank, Calamvale, Pallara and Algester- and thereby enable the people in these areas, who are presently without any real forms of transport, to have their own train service. The Minister is smiling. That gives me hope because it indicates his pleasure at the suggestion. 
The co-operation of the Queensland Government will be needed if this concept is to be embraced. I have had many dealings with the National Party M.L.A. for the seat of Fassifern,  Mr Selwyn  Muller.  Mr Muller  has said to me: Don, we will do this together'. I have agreed because we see the possibility of the people in this remote part of Queensland having a form of transport that so many city members often take for granted. As they stand at crossings with trains racing by, they simply curse at the fact that they have been held up. But in the rural parts of Australia, people frequently never see a train. 
I am suggesting that this is a cheap way of providing transport for several thousands of people who reside in those areas that I have already mentioned. With a rail motor, all that would be required would be short platforms of say 70 yards to 100 yards to be constructed on an experimental basis. If the experiment proves that it has potential for future development, surely in this great country of ours, as we draw to the end of the twentieth century, we have reached the stage where New South Wales and Queensland could join together as one and New South Wales could say to Queensland: 'You can borrow our rail motor. We will service the needs of the people of Browns, Plains, Greenbank, Calamvale, Pallara and Algester. We will work together to provide transport for those people '. 
I know that the Minister for Transport has listened to every word that I have said; in fact he is nodding his head in agreement. I say to the Minister: 'I am throwing the ball to you. Pick it up and run with it because you will become a real hero in those areas that I mentioned just previously'. I ask through the Chair whether the Minister thinks that the idea has merit. I notice that the Minister is nodding his head in agreement and I am sure that my constituents too will be happy to know that. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is the Minister aware that the screw of forced metric conversion is being continually tightened upon the nation, and that industry, and the vast majority of Australians over 25 years old are having tremendous difficulty coping with and understanding terms and measurements? Will the Government please give consideration to deliberately slowing down the forced conversion rate and calling a halt to the introduction of supplementary State government legislation which is, in effect, forcing the use of only metric and the total exclusion of many imperial measurements, thus causing metric muddle? 
-The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  suggested that all egg producers throughout Australia support this 100 per cent increase in the levy. 
-The industry does. The honourable member for Fraser obviously is the spokesman for the industry and not so much the spokesman for the producer. I would like to make some comments this evening on behalf of the producer. In recent months I have discovered that in my new electorate I have quite a number of egg producers, and recently a representative of that group came to me and drew my attention to the fact that the producers are far from happy about the way in which the marketing procedures are being handled. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 
Some producer opposition has been expressed in Tasmania as well as in Northern and Central Queensland on the grounds that they do not contribute to the egg surplus. 
Let me add that there is also opposition in southern Queensland to the forced contribution to egg surpluses. The Minister continued: 
The State agricultural Ministers have, however, accepted that it was their responsibility to settle any areas of difficulty in the industry within their States in connection with the increase in the maximum rate of the hen levy. 
I find it rather strange that the Federal Parliament is imposing a 100 per cent increase on what are better known and more easily recognised by the description 'egg farmers'. Until recently they were forced to pay $1 a bird. This figure is to increase to $2 a bird, so the egg producer is faced with an increase of exactly 100 per cent. Yet, in introducing this 100 per cent increase, the Commonwealth Government, says, 'Well, we will do it, and because the State Agriculture Ministers have said it is their responsibility to settle any areas of difficulty in the industry, we will not worry further'. 
I want to make a submission to the Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann),  who is a National Country Party Minister and who has a rural background. He lives in the town Nambour in Queensland and I understand that he has a great understanding of this industry. I say to the Minister so that he can convey to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that there is a belief held by at least one member in this chamber that, if the Commonwealth Government is to increase the levy by 100 per cent, it has an obligation to be sure and certain that there is a justified hike and not simply accept some assurances from various Agriculture Ministers that they will recognise it as 'their responsibility to settle any areas of difficulty'. 
The matter of the hen levy is one which has gone before the High Court of Australia. Indeed, my learned and esteemed colleague, the honourable member for Moreton and Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  has in the past in his legal capacity expressed the view that there is a certain amount of illegality about the whole imposition of this levy. The producers I represent recognise that there are costs incurred in the marketing of eggs. At least some of those producers are totally opposed to all the levy being collected by the Commonwealth and handed to the egg boards, and these egg boards then using their powers to utilise money for areas outside marketing. 
I do not profess to have the deep understanding and knowledge of this subject that perhaps the honourable member for Fraser and the Minister for Defence have, but I do believe that all in the farmhouse is not well and that the cackles that are heard should not be dismissed; that the industry, or the producers, are uneasy about this 100 per cent increase. Further, I believe that this Federal Parliament and honourable members on both sides of the House support this Bill. Indeed, I was rather taken aback by the honourable member for Fraser, speaking on behalf of the Opposition, when he said that the Opposition supported this Bill. The Opposition was so removed from the actual feelings of the egg producer that it is unaware of the discontent which exists. That does not surprise me. The Opposition members come either from Sydney or the inner city area of Melbourne, and there is one from Canberra. So, they really have very little contact with the people involved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Hotham will remain silent. I am in the chair and I will decide whether there is a point of order. I have not heard it yet. What is the point of order? 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of Consolidated Rutile Ltd's extensive sand mining operation on North Stradbroke Island which is just 13 minutes light aircraft flying time east of Brisbane? Is the Prime 
Minister aware that the mining on Stradbroke Island has not caused the controversy that surrounds the island which shares his name because so many people have seen for themselves what is now actually and positively achieved in the name of restoration of mined areas? 
-It is in the honourable member's electorate but it is of interest to me. In view of the traumatic effect that wrongly based prejudice can have upon our economy and the hundreds of millions of dollars and thousands of jobs at stake, will the Prime Minister please give favourable consideration to paying a visit to accessible Stradbroke Island, in the company of Federal Cabinet, so that decisions on this subject and related matters can be made with shared first-hand knowledge or at the very least arrange for a number of Cabinet Ministers to pay a visit? 
At this late hour my comments will be relatively brief. I want to refer to the clause of the Bill in which the Government claims to be correcting what is described as an accidental error which occurred during the passage of the principal legislation in 1 976. That relates to the right of appeal on taxation matters from the Federal Court to the High Court. This amending Bill proposes that an appeal from the Federal Court to the High Court shall be only by leave of the High Court. As all honourable members in this chamber, including the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  are aware, the present situation is that it is a matter of right for a citizen to appeal to the High Court in an income tax matter concerning a sum in excess of $20,000. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who has just resumed his seat, mentioned my membership of the Government members' law and government committee which considered this Bill last year. At that time I expressed my concern about this alteration. I bow to the fact that a vast majority of honourable members on both sides of the House accept that this is not a real problem, but I want to state that we are taking something from the people. We are taking away from them their automatic right of appeal to the High Court in income tax matters concerning sums in excess of $20,000. We are now giving the High Court the right to grant leave. 
I am the only layman on the Government members' law and government committee. All the other members are lawyers and it is quite an occasion to watch them at work in the committee's meetings. However, the matter that concerns me most is that the High Court might commence to adopt the attitude that it has already dealt with a matter and appeals to the High Court, which are at this moment an automatic right, will not be granted. Only recently the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, completely reversed his decision on territorial representation. My colleague the honourable member for Denison can confirm that. Just because they are judges and just because they are beyond criticism by this Parliament or members of this House does not mean that they are infallible. We are taking from the High Court of Australia the heavy work load associated with appeals on income tax matters, I hope that at all times it will display a preparedness and a willingness to reconsider principles which have been considered in the past. 
By his very description the Commissioner of Taxation is a most remote person who is empowered with enormous power. What the Taxation Commissioner says is beyond political interference. He possesses great strength. The only way alterations can be made to decisions of the Commissioner is either by alteration of the taxation laws or by a challenge to the Commissioner's interpretations through the courts. The Taxation Commissioner is not known by anyone throughout the country for having a big heart. My friend the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  nods his head in total approval. Because of all the power vested in the Commissioner we have to ensure at all times that there is a counter-balancing protection for John Citizen. Up until now it has been the High Court. After this Bill has completed its passage through this Parliament the top level will be the Federal Court and then by leave only to the High Court. I repeat an earlier plea to the judges who constitute the highest court in this land: 'Remember that you have changed your minds in the past and just because you have handled a case previously does not mean that you should say no on the next occasion that you are asked to review a matter'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I wish to support the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr 
Katter) and indeed the speakers before that, in the concern that they have expressed about the numbers of marriages which have broken down in this country. I think it is timely to remind the House of the members of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Family Law Act which has been referred to. The  Chairman  is the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  and the members are  Senator Coleman, Senator Davidson, Senator Melzer, Senator Missen, Senator Walters,  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  the honourable member for Lilley in Queensland  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Kennedy, the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  I take this opportunity to express the view that if the final report of the Committee is going to be taken seriously, then that Committee must continue to recognise that, as a nation, Australia has accepted the concept of irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a reason for divorce. 
I hold the view that very few Australians would be advocates of the old expensive days, under the previous divorce system, when the bitterness and hatred which existed would be resurrected. There are some people, of course, who correctly point out that when it comes to custody of the children a case has to be presented in relation to who has been responsible for the breakdown of the marriage. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kennedy, put his finger on the soft spot when he said that one of the problems in Australia today is that marriage is so easy, and that there should be far more marriage preparation. When people say that it is their right to marry and that they do not want the State interfering, I counter that argument with the view that if there are children and if a partner- the breadwinner- disappears, then there will be a call upon the Australian taxpayer to support those children. By virtue of that safety valve being there and with a peace of mind as far as the public is concerned, there is more than a passing obligation to ensure that before one enters into marriage one does so with a better attitude than: 'If it does not work, I can get out with 1 2 months notice '. 
I distinctly remember in this very House in 1975, when this side of the Chamber was in opposition, moving an amendment to the Family Law Act that the period of separation should be two years and not one. Regrettably, that amendment was defeated. Some honourable members expressed the view that if a marriage is dead, it is dead. I accept the validity of that. But I believe that if people have entered into a life long contract, two years is not too long to wait. I further express the view that many marriages would come together again if the period required for separation were in excess of one year. The generation of the previous speaker probably had as many rows and differences as occur in marriage today. He is smiling, but not acknowledging or denying this suggestion. But in those days divorce was not easy, and so often the partners worked at patching up the differences. Today the only patching up that is done is working out who will share the goods that are left over. 
Australia, as has been correctly stated by the honourable member for Kennedy, will at its very peril ignore the difficulties that exist in marriage today. We are seeing a sizable part of the new generation growing up knowing only one parent. The acting male principal of a school in my electorate that I visited late last year said to me:  'Mr Cameron,  if you can use influence to have a male teacher posted to this junior school it will be beneficial '. He went on to explain that in one street nearby there were 14 homes. Regrettably only one home in that street had a normal family situation; the other 13 homes were occupied by single parents with children. All the children knew in terms of the male sex were 'uncles', in some cases 'uncles' who came and went in great numbers. It was his view that it was important for the balanced attitude of these children that influence was exerted on them not only by female teachers but also by male teachers. That example is certainly unusual, but that situation exists from one end of this country to the other. The Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act has an important role to play. I am sure that all members of this House who have a responsible attitude will be wishing it well and hoping that it will accept some of the changes which - 
-The honourable member is alluding to the fact that I speak as a single man. That is correct. Often when a person is standing away from a problem he sees much more clearly than those caught up in the middle. 

 - Mr Speaker, I just say quickly that part (b) of  Mr Sinclair's  motion refers to the fact that you will determine the order in which amendments will be put. Would you inform the House of your intentions in this regard? 

 - Mr Speaker, I will abide by your request earlier that honourable members minimise their contributions to allow as many honourable members as possible to contribute to the remaining portion of this debate. I have moved an amendment because when one studies the core of the Lusher motion, as it has become known, one sees that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  summed up the matter ably when he said: 
The only question that relates to abortion which can be considered by this Parliament is whether a medical benefit should be available for the operation and, if so, under what circumstances. 
The honourable member for Hume intentionally restricts the matter to the medical benefit that is available and the circumstances under which it should be payable. I am quite sure that if he really believes in the words which he used he will accept that honourable members of this Parliament can have different views in relation to the phrase 'under what circumstances '. 
The honourable member for Hume believes that a medical benefit should be available only when the woman's life is endangered. In 1973 some members now in this House indicated that they believed in abortion on demand; other members opposed abortion on demand. There are other members of this House who, whilst they opposed abortion on demand in 1973, simply cannot buy the terms of what is known as the Lusher motion. The variety of amendments which have been moved to this motion indicate the different views which really exist. Honourable members do not need to be reminded, in any case, of their personal traumas in deciding which amendment they are going to support or which they are going to oppose in the hope that the amendment in which they really believe will, to use the vernacular, get up. 
I do not believe that any woman would allow herself to be aborted without seriously contemplating not only what would happen to her but also how she would feel for the rest of her life. That is one thing that no man in this Parliament, including me, can really understand. How does a woman feel about tomorrow as she places herself on that table? Tomorrow is the day after, the year after and the decade after. That is something that we really do not understand. Yet I do not condemn, as some have, the fact that men are passing judgment on this subject. I believe that we have a particular responsibility really to consider this subject. I defend the right of the honourable member for Hume to hold the views that he holds, but I do not defend any person who looks upon a person who will not support the Lusher motion as being a murderer. That has been said and honourable members on both sides of this House perhaps have been subject to that accusation- 'You either support the Lusher motion or you are a murderer'. 
I am proposing that there be a number of avenues whereby Commonwealth benefit would still be payable, including a situation where the mother's fife has to be protected. That is in accordance with the Lusher view. However, I go on further to say that benefits should be payable where three medical practitioners certify that her mental health would otherwise be seriously endangered. Since I proposed this amendment some people have said: 'You are opening a gate '. I believe that a mental attitude in some cases is ample reason. What this Parliament frequently forgets when considering a subject such as this is that it is not we here in Canberra who decide the State laws. They are decided away from here. The only power that we have- and this is questionable- is in relation to the payment of medical benefits. My amendment goes further and says that benefits should be payable in the case of a pregnancy which results from incest or rape. That view is supported by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  and others. My amendment concludes with a reference to deformed children. I realise that six minutes have passed since I commenced my speech and in order that others may speak I conclude my remarks. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in supporting his amendments referred to two substantial areas of the Passports Amendment Bill, firstly, the requirement, which he indicated was offensive to some people, for the place of birth to be shown and, secondly, the extent of penalties. I shall deal firstly with his reference to a person's place of birth. On behalf of the Government, I offer the reasons which serve to sustain the reason for presenting the Bill this way. Inquiries overseas regarding the possible substitution of the words place of residence ' for the words 'place of birth ' in Australian passports indicate that some 14 countries- namely, France, Germany, Vietnam, Turkey, Italy, Egypt, Nigeria, Ethopia, Trinidad, Tobago, Korea, South Africa, Guyana and Yugoslavia- would find such a substitute unacceptable. A further 10 countries said that the place of birth would continue to remain a requirement for entry and departure documentation. 
We could not reasonably remove the requirement for the place of birth to be shown in Australian passports without acknowledging the right of other countries to take similar action. This would entail forgoing any requirement for documentary evidence of the place of birth in respect of temporary and permanent entrance to this country. Switzerland has abolished the place of birth requirement on Swiss passports retaining only the place of origin. The latter is the place where the family register is left. It need not bear any relationship to the bearer's place of residence. Foreigners who become Swiss citizens can take citizenship in the regional area of their choice which then commences and retains their family register. This area becomes their 'place of birth '. The place of birth of a naturalised Swiss citizen cannot, therefore, be deduced from that person's passport. However, as Australia has no equivalent registers it would not be possible to introduce a similar endorsement in our passports. The omission of the place of birth would clearly inconvenience the large majority of travellers. 
It is obvious that the Government has given due consideration to the point raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. On balancing the pros and cons, it has come to the decision that, because of requirements in other countries, it would be to the disadvantage of Australian travellers to agree to the amendment suggested by the previous  speaker.  I have sufficient respect not to state in this place that I believe that the amendment is politically motivated to pander to the whims, hopes and wishes of people born in other parts of the world. We recognise in fact that people born in some parts of the world would be disadvantaged by having to state their place of birth. But the facts remain that far more people will be disadvantaged by the change suggested by the previous  speaker  than in allowing things to remain as they are. Secondly, the previous  speaker  alluded to the penalties provided in this Bill. He is a solicitor who has come to this place with a very high reputation. 
-As the honourable member for Hawker interjects, he is very good. I almost feel that the honourable member for Hawker would like to see the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition as Leader of his party instead of the present Leader. He is smiling and nodding his head in agreement. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Hawker seems to be signalling to the Parliament and to the nation that there is unrest in the Austraiian Labor Party. 
I wish to make a brief comment on this subject. The Australian Labor Party is noted for its silence on the question of Fraser Island. Conservation-minded people advocated a certain course of action in respect of Fraser Island which was followed. I do not recall members of the Labor Party standing in this House and saying what should be done for the town of Maryborough. That, of course, is in direct contrast with the subject before the House. 
I do not intend to be provocative on this subject. I make the point that I disagree with the principle of suddenly announcing to the world that we will no longer harvest whales. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan are harvesting in excess of some 20,000 whales a year. All we are doing is saying: 'We are no longer going to do it; we will leave it to you but we would like you to introduce extra controls'. I believe that by taking this stand we have given away our bargaining strength. If we really believe that whaling is a cruel and unnecessary means of feeding man, we should stand our ground and bargain at the International Whaling Commission on the basis that we will give it away as long as the others also give it away. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  is shaking his head. I know that the report portrays the whale as a mammal with a large brain and a lot of sense. But, for the life of me, I cannot imagine a whale being so sensible that it will know when the 200-mile limit comes up. Once a whale is outside that limit, it is liable to get a Soviet or Japanese harpoon right in its back. Are Australian waters simply the breeding and feeding ground for whales which ultimately will be killed and used to manufacture products for the rest of the world. This is how I see the situation at present. 
There is mixed feeling throughout the community right now about the decision to cease whaling. Will we see conservationists mount a campaign against the sport of marlin, swordfish or large mackerel fiishing? Will the 'Project Jonah' people call themselves 'Project Marlin 'or Project Mackie'? Will they say suddenly: 'Let us preserve the marlin, the mackerel or the swordfish'. Will a surprise announcement be made in Parliament that no longer will people be allowed to fish within the 200-mile limit of this country for marlin, swordfish or mackerel? I might be prepared to examine this matter if we could be sure that no other country intended to continue whaling. But nobody has convinced me that once fish leave our waters they will be given the same protection. 
I make a final point. This decision has been partly justified on the grounds that substitutes have been found for most whale products. I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are a man from the land. You have that appearance of dignity. Substitutes have been found for beef. I ask whether the Government is now going to say that beef cattle are as much a creation of God as is the whale and that, therefore, the Government is going to stop slaughtering beef cattle and allow those who produce synthetics to provide the market with its needs. I conclude on that remark because the Government Whip is now by my side. But I make those points very quickly. I repeat that I share some of the concern of the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  insomuch as I am far from convinced that the decision we have reached in this Parliament is going to save the whale. The only sure thing is that when he leaves Australian shores he will be a lot fatter for the harpoons from the USSR and Japan. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I am pleased to have seen the contributions made to this subject this afternoon. It is appropriate to praise the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and honourable members on both sides of the House for their thoughtful contributions. I sincerely hope that when the matters which have been raised by various honourable members go before the legislative committee there is sufficient impartiality to allow the acceptance of some of the thoughtful suggestions and improvements which will be made to the Customs Amendment Bill in that process. It is obvious that honourable members on both sides of this chamber share an equal concern about the devastating effect that drugs can have upon the people of this nation. I believe that the Bill could be in no better hands than those of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  He is a reasonable man. No doubt, even in the preliminary stages he will ensure that some of the Opposition 's suggestions are accepted and written into the legislation. 
I want to make reference to the area of privacy. For many years in this Parliament I was almost a lone creature in my outspokenness for the rights of the individual to maintain his privacy. Unfortunately today there has been a little inconsistency in the arguments put forward by honourable members on the other side of the House. They advocate certain courses of actions for this Government to follow. Yet what this Government is implementing are procedures which have long been existent in States with Labor governments. If Labor governments have not seen fit to alter the legislation the pleas of Opposition members in this House are a little hollow. Nevertheless, there is no escaping the report of the Law Reform Commission in 1 975 on the subject of the Criminal Investigation Bill which was alluded to by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. That report stated: 
First, we see no distinction in principle between telephone tapping and other forms of surveillance involving the use of electronic listening devices. 
That is the view of the Law Reform Commission. I suggest, with sadness, that perhaps the various State governments have already given so much ground in this vital area of privacy that it is now unrecoverable. I notice that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is nodding his head in agreement. In New South Wales, Victoria, Western Australia and Queensland the Minister in charge of customs matters or the comptroller-general already have the right to use listening devices under State legislation. In South 
Australia the State police have the right of authorisation in this area. To its credit the Federal Government is tightening the controls in this area. Under this legislation the use of listening devices can be authorised only by the Minister. I do not agree that anyone other than a judge should be able to authorise the use of a listening device, but there is no escaping the fact that in five of the six States this authorisation is given at a much lower level. Indeed, in the Labor State of the recently retired Donald Dunstan it is a matter for the police to decide. That must not be forgotten. The Law Reform Commission report went on to state:  ... we think that the police ought not to be denied all the advantages of modern technology in fighting crime which itself uses it. Monitoring of conversations without the consent of either party ought to be permitted in certain narrowly defined circumstances. Such authorisation should only be granted by a Federal judge or a judge of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, and should be available only in respect of very serious offences. 
Again those words command my total agreement. The report continues: 
Such judicial authorisation should only be available when other investigative procedures have been tried and failed or would be impracticable. The authorisation should state with great particularity the offence, persons and places that are the subject of the surveillance. It should contain such other specific terms and conditions as the judge considers advisable in the public interest and should be valid for a period not exceeding ten days. 
It is a fact of life that there are aspects of this legislation which run completely counter to the wishes of the Law Reform Commission. However, that does not mean that what we are doing is totally wrong. Lest I be accused of being a friend of drug pedlars, traffickers or the  'Mr Bigs',  I state here and now that I have absolutely no truck with them. As far as the three or four Australians in Bangkok gaols are concerned- I believe that I share the view of the vast majority of Australians- if properly found guilty and they end their life at the end of a Thai or tied rope, it is their business and their problem. It is yet to be proved that they were in fact trading in drugs and bringing hard drugs to Australia, but if they were, none of us in this House would be in a position to estimate the number of lives that they would have destroyed within the shores of this nation by so doing. If their guilt is proven that would be a just reward. Let it be understood that I am not pre-empting the findings of the court or any appeal which might follow. The point is that I, like the vast majority of my fellow countrymen, have no sympathy for drug traffickers. 
One feature of this Bill that worries me is the reference to life imprisonment. Honourable members on both sides of this House know that these days life imprisonment means that one can be out on the street in eight years. A man who has destroyed a thousand lives might be asked to give only eight or nine years of his life in return. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to give consideration to altering the Bill to provide for minimum penalties to be imposed in certain circumstances. I know that this presents difficulties. I know that discretion should be left in the hands of the judiciary- the judge who presides over the case- but there is no escaping the fact that in later years parole boards frequently develop some sympathy towards a prisoner that is far removed from the realities of the harmful contribution for which he was sent to prison. 
An area in which I am in total agreement with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is his reference to the right of the Attorney-General to authorise the bugging of telephones for the apprehension of drug offenders. I realise that it might be pointed out that this proposition is contained in a Bill introduced into the Senate by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  namely, the Telecommunications (Interceptions) Bill 1979, which is to replace the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act 1960. But I cannot accept that the right to invade the telephone system should be placed in the hands of a Minister. The Law Reform Commission has clearly spelt out that in its view it should be something which is authorised only by a member of the judiciary- a member of a State supreme court, the High Court or Federal Court of Australia. 
It worries me that, in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, and this new Customs Bill to a much greater extent we are giving the Attorney-General the right to open the door to an area which previously was regarded as sacred and an invasion of privacy, that is, access to telephone conversations. I believe that that is giving away a great right. This Parliament is giving its seal of approval to the removal of what was previously every Australian's precious possession. I do not argue against the fact that in some instances the only way to apprehend the  'Mr Bigs'  of the drug trafficking world will be to violate the privacy of the telephone line. But I believe that by reducing the authorisation of the interception of a telephone conversation to the level of a politician- let us not forget that the Attorney-General is a politician- we have come a long way from the attitude which originally existed in this country, an attitude that has long been affirmed by bodies such as the Law Reform Commission. 
I plead with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to consider the advocacy I made in the early stages of the life of this Bill - during consideration of it by the Government members committee and in the Government members party room- the same I am now making in the Parliament- that is, that we ensure that the authorisation to intercept telephone conversations is something that is placed in the hands of the judiciary. I accept with a certain amount of reluctance that listening devices will be authorised at the level of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I say to the Minister that this Parliament will probably place in his hands a great deal of trust in regard to the conversations of people that he will never meet or see. I ask the Minister to ensure before the invasion is authorised that the request is seen to be made on only most valid grounds. 
I make a suggestion to the House in relation to this Bill. It causes me grave concern that it appears that if the Attorney-General and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs have the right to authorise telephone conversation interceptions and the use of" listening devices they will simply see the application for authorisation and never become aware of the final result. I plead with the Minister to have written into this legislation a provision whereby he will be given a report within a specified period on the outcome of every use of a listening device authorised by him. I believe that officers could go overboard in making application and abuse the system. If this Parliament is not to see the end result of such an approval the Minister should do so. If the Minister gave 100 approvals of which 99 came to nothing and he had a balanced approach to the subject of privacy, he would quickly recognise that the invasions of privacy are being overdone and that more care should be exercised before application for authorisation is made to him. I see the Minister is nodding. I am not going to interpret the nod as agreement to an amendment, but I think it is a recognition of the point I am making. I conclude my comments on this particular Bill with a plea that the Minister regard that suggestion very seriously and as most worthwhile. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the recent refusal by the Labor governments of New South Wales and South Australia to abandon the introduction of the last stages of fuel consuming vehicle emission controls. In view of the fact that these controls will benefit only users of the tunnel approaches to Sydney Harbour Bridge, does the Minister have a view on that refusal? Is the decision of the New South Wales and South Australian Labor governments likely to mean that every motorist in Australia will pay more for petrol next year? Will their selfish decision have a catastrophic effect on Australia 's fuel supplies. 
This evening this Parliament is virtually sanctioning a practice which has been established for a number of years. In my view, because it has been a practice for many years, that does not make it correct. Previous speakers have highlighted the fact that in no other section of the community would 5.2 weeks long service leave be granted for every year served. In simple mathematics it boils down to the fact that at the end of every ten years service on the bench a judge will be entitled to a full year's long service leave. I was surprised that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  confirmed that judges do not have holidays. My interjection was: 'Do you mean that they do not have any leave at all throughout a year?'. He confirmed that. If that were the case perhaps my views on this subject might be a little different. 
Being the only non-lawyer speaking in this debate I concede has some slight dangers. I cannot accept completely that judges do not have holidays each year and that they need this provision as an extra. If this were so, all the more reason why they should take their long service leave. Even our Prime Minister has introduced a requirement that instead of working year in and year out all Ministers of the Crown must have at least one fortnight's holiday a year in which to prepare them for the continuation of their work. That is commonsense because without leave people become very dulled and their capacity to work greatly decreases. Sometimes when I watch the efforts of some Ministers I think that the holiday period should be extended to perhaps three or even four weeks but that is another subject. For the purpose of reflection on this debate I wish to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have prepared. It shows, since Federation, the date of birth of all our judges, the date of appointment, the age on appointment, the age of cessation and, at the other sad end, their age at death. The table covers the High Court of Australia, the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration or the Australian Industrial Court, the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, which still exists in a much diminished way, the Australian Family Court and the new court which has arrived on our scene, the Federal Court of Australia. I have sought the agreement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to incorporate this document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905082_36_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905082_37_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905082_38_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905082_38_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905082_39_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Thank you. When one considers this Bill, the salary range and other entitlements of the judiciary, I think it is proper for one to go to the root cause. In many cases the judiciary has been cared for generously because governments have had so much difficulty in getting people to accept an appointment to the bench. This afternoon previous speakers have alluded to the fact that to go to the bench means a drop in income. I suppose that a number of reasons exist why people may not be too keen to accept appointments. Many barristers for a host of personal reasons would not want the undoubted heavy responsibilities that go with a judgeship. Some would regard the money as not good enough. Others would not be favoured politically. There is no escaping the fact that an appointment to the bench is more dependent upon a political smile than perhaps any other job in the community. There would be the equals such as the ambassadors and the high commissioners who come from Parliament. Generally speaking if someone is not in favour with a particular Government, whether it be State or Federal, there is little likelihood of his being appointed to the bench. Perhaps on that aspect alone honourable members can wipe out half the available people who could be appointed. 
Some people may argue that just because a man is a barrister he is not necessarily equipped to take an appointment on the bench. That argument would be valid. Today I have done some work in relation to the availability of people for appointment to the bench. I have only taken New South Wales and I have used the New South Wales Government produced 1979 almanac which contains a list of all barristers in Sydney, Wollongong and Newcastle. After a totalling of the names on the various pagesthere are no numbers- I find that there are 7 1 3 practising barristers and 338 non-practising barristers in New South Wales. 
-My learned friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh has interjected. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Hindmarsh is highly respected but he is not entitled to the title 'learned'. 
-Perhaps the  Deputy Speaker  is saying that the honourable member for Hindmarsh pontificates. The point I was making is that even among the 338 nonpractising New South Wales barristers there are people who are associated with the Commonwealth Crown Solicitors Office and the Office of the  Clerk  of the Peace in Darlinghurst. Even the previous Commissioner of Taxation,  Sir Edward  Cain, is a barrister. It does not mean that because they are non-practising they are suitable for appointment. So the nub is that in New South Wales alone there would be well over 700 or 800 people who might be considered for appointment to the bench. If we multiply that figure by the number of barristers who would be available throughout Australia- one could safely multiply it by 3 to 4- this would give an appreciation of the number who could be available. 
I recognise that there would be a number of reasons why a lot of these people would be unavailable for appointment. But the aforementioned gives an indication of the number of people who are barristers. Quite a large number of New South Wales barristers have taken silk. Surely if they have been appointed to such a high position they must have a great deal of talent. Maybe the root cause is that so much money is able to be earnt by barristers. So much has to be offered to a barrister to encourage him to become a judge. When we are talking about the salaries of barristers I want to ponder another question and that is whether we have gone haywire in the provision of legal assistance. 
Recent cases, which have also involved politicians, including a former Prime Minister, cause me to question the rules, or non-rules, applicable to legal assistance and to make suggestions as to what I believe the vast majority of Australian taxpayers would regard as fair and reasonable. In making these comments my boot is directed at the ball and not at any man. It is a question of fair limits being set by government. This speech is made in what I believe to be a climate of general acceptance by the community that legal expenses can be so devastating for the individual that in some instances governments must play a role in absorbing some or all of the impact to ensure justice is within reach. At this very moment controversy exists over the costs of Messrs Whitlam, Cairns, Murphy and  Mr Sankey.  But, of course, that case is sub judice and hence I will make only passing reference to it. 
There is no Medibank available when it comes to insuring against the unexpected in legal costs, and few medical operations would cost the equivalent of a full day in a court. Some people now refer to an individual's total costs of, say, $50,000, $60,000 and even $70,000 with hardly a blink. I cannot dismiss the subject that lightly. I do not wish to appear to be persecuting the Whitlams, the Cairns and others, because I am not. But I ask: What is a fair burden for the taxpayer to bear? If a man has acquired position and standing in our community, does it mean that Treasury is his oyster upon the legality of some action of his being challenged and the matter moving to a court situation? Guidelines and limits should be set for the amount that government will pay. I definitely do not advocate placing restrictions upon the individual in choosing the person to represent him or her. I advocate the placing of restrictions only on the extent to which government can commit itself to costs. If for instance, a Minister of the Crown- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I think the remarks of the honourable member for Fadden are a bit wide of the Bill at the present time. I think he should confine them to the guidelines laid down by the Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am trying to get to the very root cause of such generous provisions as, say, 5.2 weeks a year long service leave entitlement in the case of a judge.  Sir, I  am trying to show- I think you are indicating some understanding- that if barristers are able to earn huge incomes because governments do not set upper limits on the fees they pay, generous provisions have to be made to compensate members of the judiciary. That is the point I am making. 
I take your point,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Perhaps I can give an example of the point I am trying to make. If a Minister of the Crown is caught speeding while driving himself to attend to government business it should not mean that he is automatically entitled to have represent him a Queen's counsel or a high fee barrister who may charge $1,000 or more a day to defend him, with a government picking up the costs. We should remember that a Queen's Counsel generally is accompanied by another barrister who receives a fee roughly twothirds that of the Queen's Counsel.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know that your son is a barrister and that you would have great interest in this subject. Then there are the costs of the instructing solicitors. It is a fact that, generally speaking, a Queen's Counsel is a most competent and able man in his field. Indeed, many of the judges who will be affected by this Bill will have come from that exalted rank. However, strict guidelines should exist if and when a person engages at the taxpayers' expense a Queen's Counsel, a high fee charging barrister or non-schedule charging solicitors. The Government should say that the people will not foot the bill for a man who in one day earns an amount similar to that which an age pensioner is given in six or more months. It must impose a limit on the amount of money the people will pay. 
I recall an article which appeared in a magazine some 12 to IS months ago which stated that the income of a well known Queen's Counsel was estimated by his closest associates to be between $300,000 and $350,000 a year. Of course, it does not follow that the income of a Queen's Counsel is necessarily in that range or anywhere near it. Indeed, that estimate may be even inadvertent exaggeration. The salary and allowances paid to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to run his electorate and our country amount to approximately $80,000 per annum. The salary and allowances of Chief Justice amount to some $63,717 per annum. The average man's mind boggles at these figures alone. However, $300,000 plus is beyond comprehension. I realise that the man in private practice can have his earning capacity eliminated overnight by a loss of health and his capacity to command high fees can diminish by virtue of partial or total eclipse of his popularity. Nevertheless, his risks are not unlike the risks run in politics. In 1979, is one man worth $1,000 or more of the public purse a day when so many other competent lawyers, including Queen's Counsel, would do the job equally well for much less remuneration? 
A set fee should be established and it should be made known that charges above that fee will, except perhaps in most exceptional circumstances, be the responsibility of the client. In a royal commission situation-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this point is relevant because  Mr Justice  McGregor is one judge who has been mentioned in this debate- or in the case of a government inquiry where legal representation is allowed, to pay more than would normally be allowed by the Supreme Court of a State or the High Court, on a party and party basis, is an unforgivable waste of the taxpayers' money. Some segments of the community will regard some payments as only a raid on the privy purse to plunder and loot public moneys. I have no intention of entering into discussion on that subject, except to point out that people should not conclude that a client is a party to such an act; he or she is presently illequipped to bring about a situation of restraint. 
Finally, if a person engages a $1,000 a stitch surgeon, the government health care program pays according to a schedule of fees, and it is the patient's responsibility to find those expenses incurred above the schedule fee. In other words, there are cost restrictions upon even the desperately ill, and it is high time government examined limits in relation to legal expenses. If a corporation wants to pay a lawyer $1,500 a day, that is its business. I am talking of the taxpayers' business. I strongly suspect that some lawyers are little different by nature from some people in our community who adopt the attitude that when the government pays, whacko, the sky is the limit. It can be argued also that when government agrees to pay outrageous fees without question it is becoming a pace setter in relation to legal fees and hence it is placing justice even further beyond the reach of  Mr and Mrs Average. 
I have purposely avoided using words such as scandalous', 'shocking' and 'shameful' in the latter part of this speech because I do not seek headlines. I just seek serious reflection about a matter of real principle, namely, luxury litigation at public expense. It would be unjust of me not to acknowledge the presence in our community of many lawyers who often charge fees below their entitlement and who frequently feel a sense of embarrassment when fee demands become public knowledge. There are always occasions when one would dearly like to be his brother' keeper. 
I conclude by returning to the point with which I commenced. So often it is hard to get people to accept appointments to the Bench because as barristers and Queen's Counsel they command fees which are really beyond the comprehension of the ordinary man. Therefore, one is calling on a person to take a substantial drop in income by asking him to accept an appointment to the Bench. Perhaps attention should be directed at what is a fair thing in relation to fees, particularly when the ordinary person has to pay them. 
-Sir Charles Adermann will live on as an outstanding example of the fact that one can be a gentleman, in every sense of the word, and a successful politician at the same time. It was a privilege to know  Sir Charles. His  passing will cause a wave of genuine sadness to pass across this nation. 
What I am about to say before getting onto the subject I want to speak about is by no means said in a patronising way to the recently arrived honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  I regard the privilege which I am given in this Parliament, enabling me to stand up and say anything with complete protection, as perhaps the greatest privilege that this nation or my electorate has bestowed on me. I can understand the sensitive feelings of the honourable member for Parramatta after having been maligned on a radio station and having been given little opportunity to reply at the time. But it is pertinent to highlight the fact that throughout Australia we have six State parliaments as well as the parliament here in Canberra and there are several hundred members of parliament. Regrettably, human behaviour is such that a number of those parliamentarians do not treat the treasure which has been given to them, to the honourable member for Parramatta and to myself with the respect that is due. What happened to the honourable member for Parramatta sadly happens at the hands of politicians to many innocent individuals on the outside who have absolutely no means of defending themselves. As I said at the outset, this was not said in a patronising manner. 
The grievance debate today is not just an opportunity for me to grieve; I wish to grieve for every motorist throughout Australia. I would hope that every motorist who is presently in his car and hearing this broadcast will listen very carefully to what I have to say. Recently representatives of the various State governments and the Commonwealth Government met and made a decision in relation to the final application of Australian Design Rule 27a, which is a regulation which will have the effect of bringing about, in 1981, the final application of emission controls on motor vehicles. At that meeting the States of New South Wales and South Australia would not agree with the decision arrived at by the other States to forestall the introduction of the final stages of emission control. 
On Tuesday in this House I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  a question relating to this matter. He pointed out that there is every likelihood that because of the percentage of cars of the total Australian market which are manufactured for use in New South Wales and South Australia, regardless of the views of other States, all cars in Australia may have to be equipped with this emission control equipment. In that question I referred to the tunnels leading to the Sydney Harbour Bridge. I would concede that those tunnels probably present a problem for the New South Wales Government. But, for the life of me, I cannot understand why the South Australian Government has fallen in with this decision. I give  Mr Wran  his due in that when the State Pollution Control Commission of New South Wales submitted a report which expressed certain views he acted upon it. But the South Australian Government has done nothing more than make a Cabinet decision. By this small State aligning itself with New South Wales the rest of Australia will suffer. I do not say for one moment that  Mr Wran  was completely entitled to come to the conclusion he arrived at because there is so much conflict in that report and the interim report prepared by the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences. The two reports conflict in many areas. 
It is by no means certain that the benefits of this final stage of the controls will outweigh other matters which must now come into consideration. I suggest that we could well reach the stage where the Esso project in Bass Strait will be functioning simply to supply the extra petroleum or fuel that will be required as a result of the imposition of these extra controls. It is fitting and proper to draw the attention of the House to the fact that in 1977-78 some 14,41 1 million litres of fuel were consumed by Australian motorists. Five per cent of that represents 720.5 million litres. If the controls which will be imposed in 1981 had existed in the year just concluded it would have meant that the Australian motorist would have had to pay more for the extra 720 million litres of fuel that these new measures would have needed. 
It is a very sad and almost selfish situation that we can have two States holding Australia to ransom. Their decision will have an effect from Sydney to Perth and from the bottom of Tasmania to the tip of Cape York. It is appropriate to draw the attention of the Australian public to the fact that the Labor Premier in Tasmania would have no truck with the view of  Mr Wran  and the South Australian Government. There is division in the Labor camp. I recognise that there is a problem in Sydney, but this is not necessarily the way around it. There is no problem with pollution in the very vast reaches of this country. Yet, because of this decision the people who do not live in Sydney will have to contribute to financing the cost of the use of another 720 million litres of petrol per year. It is money down the drain. 
I am not for a moment, nor is the present Federal Government, abandoning considerations in relation to health; nevertheless I believe that there has to be a balance. I believe that  Mr Wran  is not displaying balance in this instance. If in the future it can be proved that these requirements are most necessary for the good health of Australians, particularly the people who pass through those tunnels in Sydney, and it is the only way to tackle it, I would offer my total support to a later implementation. But the report of the Academy of Technological Sciences to which I referred does not back  Mr Wran's  decision. Indeed, an examination of the report of the State Pollution Control Commission indicates that there is not complete agreement in New South Wales. 
-The honourable member for Reid has asked that he be given a chance to speak in this debate. As there are only a few minutes left in this debate, I will quickly conclude my comments. Already, Australian motorists are being forced to pay almost $ 100m a year extra because of the emission control devices which have already been placed on motor cars. There is no escaping the fact that people are running around everywhere trying to disconnect them. If this final stage is introduced it will mean  that the Australian motorist will have to fork out of his pocket each year at least another $ 150m just to satisfy the demands of Premier Wran. 
I direct my thoughtful question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to the record price of $900 paid for a bullock at the Boonah Show last Friday? Boonah is situated in my electorate of Fadden and is a place where, I think, the Minister campaigned during the 1977 election campaign. Is the Minister aware that my cattlemen and, I imagine, cattlemen everywhere, while welcoming the current high prices as a blessing to make up for the disastrous state of the industry in recent past years, would prefer fair and viable prices all the time to economic drought and boom? Has the Minister turned his attention to devising a price stabilisation scheme for beef that would be beneficial not only to my producers but also to consumers and the consumer price index as meat prices would no longer be such a wildly fluctuating factor? 
-I rushed into the House, having been involved in another matter. I only just realised that the Bill is again before the House. As you are in the Chair,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I understand that we have returned to a second reading debate situation and therefore I have a certain amount of freedom as to what I may say. I would like to say initially - 
-Are you reading it again for me, sir? 
-Thank you. I can speak well and truly within those confines. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is sitting at the table, for his acceptance of amendments which were proposed earlier in this chamber, proposed at the government members committee, proposed at the Party Room discussions and more lately proposed at the legislative committee hearing. The Government has agreed to place authorisation of the use of a listening device in the hands of the judiciary. That is a great breakthrough for honourable members, particularly those on this side of the chamber who have almost stood alone at times in their battle to get recognition of this very important principle. I was very thrilled to see the change in attitude by my friend the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who originally I would not have claimed as an ally on this subject but as time passed he realised - 
-He is getting better every day,  Sir William.  He is improving all the time. What I am trying to say is that there has been an acceptance of the proposed change. I congratulate the Minister, and indeed the Cabinet and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  for recognising that,  Sir William  McMahon and myself did not enjoy crossing the floor in the Committee stage. We felt so strongly about the issue that we thought it was the only weapon left to us. This point has been recognised. In other areas about which I believe that  Sir William  McMahon and  Mr Hodgman  have already spoken - 
-The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  have made contributions this afternoon, and are advocating certain alterations in other parts of the Bill. A number of vital principles are involved. In a parliament such as this members only have time to be interested in so many subjects. When a matter of great principle is being discussed and considered, if it is not in their areas of interests they cannot always be expected to direct their attention to it. Unfortunately, issues can pass through this place unnoticed although they are really of great importance to the very fabric of our society, to the fabric of the legal system and what we recognise as the law of this country. In view of the fact that this legislation will go into the Committee stage soon I would hope that the Minister might at this late stage agree to certain amendments which have been proposed by the right honourable member for Lowe and, indeed, the honourable member for Sturt (  Mr Wilson)  - 
-And the honourable member for Denison. I hope that some of these proposals will be recognised for what they are- expressions of concern for the preservation of the rights of the individual. I am not one who goes overboard in that particular area but when we start to transgress on the rights of individuals to their privacy our steps must be considered most carefully and most properly. In this Bill we are opening up the doors because of our real and deep concern about drug trafficking. By acceding to those steps it does not mean that all members of this Parliament are prepared to support the use of listening devices attached to telephones and all the other types of bugging devices. We are not prepared to make the world an oyster as far as crime detection is concerned. There is no way in the world that I would ever vote to authorise the use of a device, for instance, to apprehend somebody who ran a small starting price operation. I do not expect that many members of this chamber would do so. But, on the other hand, by passing some clauses of this Bill there is the very real possibility that we will be authorising eavesdropping and bugging in areas that previously we would not even have dared to contemplate. 
-I want to make my position quite clear. I regard the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act and the Customs Amendment Bill as being very much akin. Principles which are contained in this Bill will be repeated in the amendment to the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. It is a reality that that amending Bill has yet to come to the chamber. It is also a reality that in the past the Commonwealth Government has imposed great restrictions on authorising the interception of a telephone conversation. That has been a long-standing principle. In the name of updating the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and our Customs laws under which drug traffickers are apprehended, we are breaking previously sacred ground. 
I sat on the legislation committee which inquired into this Bill and heard members from both sides of the chamber state a reasoned nonacceptance of drug trafficking. Let nobody accuse any member of this parliament of being a friend of the drug traffickers. But some honourable members should be allowed to stand up as friends of the protectists of the rights of the individual in relation to privacy, and I place myself in that category. Because we are changing the laws in relation to drugs we are allowing information on petty crimes which is picked up through listening devices or overheard on telephone calls to be passed on to State police officers to allow them to apprehend individuals. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  might well say: 'Is the honourable member for Fadden saying that if my Customs men overhear a conversation in which a murder is being planned, that information should not be divulged?'. I am not advocating that course. 
It is very easy for anyone to stand up and say that we should have limits. It is very hard to draw the line. For instance, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is quite happy for reports of intended crimes coming to the attention of Customs officers to be passed on. I am one who believes the line has to be drawn somewhere. Frankly, in view of the fact that legislation throughout the States varies so much, I am not at all happy about the two references in proposed new section 21 9G to imprisonment for a period of not less than three years. 
I do not want to enter into an argument on laws concerning street marches in Queensland, but what would be the situation if the Premier of Queensland were to legislate to provide that a person would face imprisonment of not less than 3 years for a third street marching offence? Then if a Customs officer happened to overhear two New South Welshmen plotting to go to Queensland to march once more, the Comptroller-General is then confronted with the reality that a crime is about to take place and he is obliged to hand over information to the chief of police in Queensland? For the life of me, I would not support a Bill which specifically stated that to be so. Indeed, I do not believe that many members of the House would. Yet, through a back door method, we are giving State and Commonwealth police- I am not trying for one moment to hinder them in their work- access to information which prior to our setting out to protect the nation from drug traffickers was not available to the police. Is this Bill now becoming the means by which State and Commonwealth police will gather evidence on a wide range of crimes? This is my concern, and therefore my thinking on this subject is somewhat different from that of the honourable member for Denison. I apologise to the Minister for having come into the chamber after he had made his introductory comments. I like others was unaware that the Bill was to be debated this afternoon. I have certainly caught up now, and I will be listening to every word as the debate goes on during the afternoon and perhaps this evening. 
I shall be very brief. Certain indications have been given in relation to this provision. I would like to commend the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  for his contribution. He could not be described in the wildest stretch of the imagination as a long haired radical, but he is a thinker. The fact that an increasing number of people in this chamber are turning their attention in this changing age to the rights of individuals is at least rewarding for some of those who have been long time champions of the cause. I reiterate that I appreciate the wise contribution of the honourable member for Sturt. 
Amendment negatived. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fife)  adjourned. 
Every honourable member will join me in expressing the hope that nothing harmful will ever happen to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  but the very point of this Bill is that it is intended to assist in apprehending the very people who have caused the blood pressure of the honourable member to rise to such heights. The question that we are debating tonight is the degree and extent to which one may go in pursuit of those aims. No honourable member, whether he be on the Opposition or the Government side, is a friend of the drug or narcotics trafficker. 
I wish to cite an example that has come to my mind in the last few minutes of an error which occurred on the part of Customs officers. I am not denigrating such officers. They too are human, but in giving them these special powers we are endeavouring to ensure that, even in error, they will not be abused or wrongly used. In the late 1960s, in my old electorate of Griffith, there was a raid by I believe, Customs men- on the home of an elderly lady who was a highly-respected poet or author. Suddenly, at about 11.30 one night she was awakened by a voice over a megaphone which said: 'Come outside; your house is surrounded'. A million candlepower light was pointing towards her home and, as she struggled out onto her doorstep in her nightdress, she was told not to move. She was confronted by Customs men who had been fed incorrect information that she was a dealer in imported pornographic material. In their search they found 24 editions of the  Australian Women's Weekly,  15 editions of  Woman's Day  and 10 editions of  House and Garden.  I use that example simply to highlight the need that every care be used when we grant special powers. At the time, an apology was given and the incident is now history; but we do not want to witness a repetition of that performance. I willingly concur that we must be unrelenting in our search and pursuit of those horrible traffickers in drugs and narcotics. 
The comments of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports (  Mr Holding)  and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  are all comments of men who do not come in here with political motivation but men who are deeply concerned as to powers we are thrusting in the hands of a few. Not only did the right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for Denison cross the floor during the efforts to gag the debate earlier, but a number of members on this side disappeared from the chamber because they did not want to be any part of bringing an end to thoughtful discussion on this Bill. 
Throughout the various stages of discussion on this Bill I have been consistent on the question of the usage of evidence gathered on an eavesdropping or telephone listening device because the evidence could be passed to other authorities when it relates to minor crimes. When it comes to murder and serious crime, I have no truck with people who commit those crimes. As I said this afternoon, nobody would have the audacity to introduce into this chamber a Bill authorising eavesdropping and interception by telephone if the evidence gathered could be related to some minor crimes. By sheer accident or otherwise this Bill now encompasses just that. I do not say for a moment that those Customs men who learn a murder is planned or a severe bashing, et cetera, should just close their ears and eyes. 
-The honourable member for Denison says: 'We have never said that'. That is quite right. He has been standing by my side for some weeks now. The point is that the legislation which we have introduced spreads a very wide net. Many members would never agree to such a wide net in isolation. 
I congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is sitting at the table, for his intended amendment. I make the observation in relation to it that, even though a court may at its discretion refuse to permit the admission of certain information as evidence, surely the ruling of a judge would, if the case were before a jury, have the effect of acting prejudicially in the minds of the jury. It has been said that a lawyer can claim the right not to give evidence in respect of a taped conversation. I wonder what a jury, which comprised men like the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  all practical men, to use his words, would think if a lawyer were brought in and he suddenly said: I claim the privilege not to give evidence in relation to that taped conversation'. It too could well have a prejudicial effect on the minds of that jury. It is concern such as that which has been presented in this discussion tonight. In conclusion, because the night races on, I compliment the Minister because he is one of the better Ministers of this Government. At least he considers contributions which are being made from both sides. I hope the lateness of the hour means that he is hoping that the debate is talked out, which will give him an opportunity to ask Cabinet in the morning to consider further amendments. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. It refers to the proposed inquiry into the cost of hospital administration. Is the Minister aware that the daily gross operating cost per occupied bed in the States for 1977-78 is $128 for New South Wales, $ 1 43 for Victoria, $ 1 1 1 for Queensland, $ 1 46 for South Australia, $165 for Western Australia and $ 1 3 1 for Tasmania? In view of the huge disparity from State to State, does the Minister agree that some States will probably be found to have a highly efficient and non-money wasting system in existence already? Will the Minister recognise merit by undertaking to ensure that the terms of reference take this matter into consideration? Further, does he agree that the great State of Queensland probably will be found to be the State most cost efficient in relation to hospital administration and should not be expected to share pruning to overcome the proven dollar devouring inefficiency in other States, such as the Australian Labor Party governed State of South Australia? 
-by leave- As a member of the Parliament and as a member on the Government side of the Parliament, I am not stating any opposition to the decision that was taken some weeks ago in relation to this matter. However, as a private member on the Government side I believe that at the very least there should be some consultation with members on this side of the House before arbitrary decisions such as this are taken on our behalf. 
I direct my friendly yet humble question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister give the House news of developments in relation to the unrelenting endeavours of me, the Queensland Premier, the Minister's Department and others to have the American Consulate in Brisbane remain open? Does the Minister feel that my sustained letter writing efforts to members of both Houses of the United States Congress - 
I am very pleased to be able to stand here today to acknowledge once again that the new Brisbane airport is on its way. I remember that in the late 1960s when I represented the seat of Griffith a select committee inquired into aircraft noise. I had heard stories from my constituents about how their houses shook, their crockery rattled and their television sets nickered as the giant aircraft skimmed over their homes. I went before that committee to state how my constituents were being affected. I said that something had to be done. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  have given us an explanation of the advantages which will accrue as a result of this Government's decision, but I wish to refer just briefly to humane aspects. I want to pay tribute to the new honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  because he has not had the audacity to stand in this House and claim any of the praise due for this Government's decision. That is a stroke of rare honesty on his behalf. 
The truth is that in 1972 the then McMahon Government had a program for the commencement of the new Brisbane airport. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party in those days,  Mr Whitlam,  regrettably for Australia, took over at the end of 1 972.  Mr Whitiam,  with many grandiose ideas in mind, set up  Dr Coombs-  Clipper Coombs- to look at all the programs that the previous McMahon Government had undertaken. Believe it or not, the Brisbane airport project got the chop. All those years of my hard work in this House were destroyed with one stroke of a pen. In more recent years since my party has been returned to office, with the assistance of the present honourable member for Bowman and my friend, the honourable member for Lilley, I have plugged on. At long last we have reached a stage where the airport project is under way again. I do not display sentimentality or nostalgia but I say to those people whom I formerly represented- they will remember me as I remember them- the people of Norman Park, Hawthorne, Balmoral, Bulimba, that in a few years time when their lives are more peaceful and they say thank you to Don Cameron for all his work when he was their member, I hope they will show their appreciation by voting Liberal because it will have been a Liberal government that has brought them that peace; not the Labor Party. 

 Mr MORRIS (Shortland) 4.34)-We have heard a great deal of cynical chest thumping this afternoon in respect of the Brisbane Airport project. A number of statements that have been made have prompted me to rise to respond to correct the record. Let us put the matter in proper perspective. The state of deterioration of Brisbane airport in 1972 was due to 23 years of administration by successive conservative governments. Brisbane, Queensland and the tourist industry in the State rated such a low priority with all those conservative governments that were in office for 23 years that something positive had to be done to improve the Airport at Brisbane if the people of Queensland were to get a fair access to transport services, domestically and internationally 
Knowing the calibre of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  I am rather surprised that they should be seeking to make such blatant propaganda advantage of a decision by the House, as I expect the decision will be, to refer this proposal to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for examination. One would think that the airport was already built and that it was to be opened next Sunday afternoon by the honourable member for Lilley. The fact is that the honourable member for Lilley was a Minister in the Government that did nothing about Brisbane Airport. He was a Minister in several governments and it has taken many years of agitation and promotion for the development of Brisbane Airport to get the conservatives moving. 
What did happen? In 1972 a report on the Brisbane Airport was prepared for the McMahon Government. I heard the honourable member for Bowman say that the McMahon Government decided to go ahead with the airport, apparently, without the benefit of an examination by the Bureau of Transport Economics or an examination by the Public Works Committee. Apparently, it was another grab-bag in the 1972 election campaign, when the conservative parties in which the honourable member for Lilley was a senior Minister, were desperate to try to buy their way back into office. They failed. 
The facts are that in 1973 in a responsible approach to public expenditure the matter of Brisbane Airport was referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics, the appropriate body and the body of which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in this Government is extremely proud and constantly refers to. 
Page - 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  commands considerable respect from this side of the House even when he proposes a mixture of sound and quaint attitudes, ideas and suggestions. He sounds almost like a prophet when he presents himself as one who forecast present day difficulties in terms of the world energy crisis. One would almost think that he had had dialogue with the Ayatollah Khomeyni in Paris. But when he compared the number of exploration wells drilled in Australia with the number being drilled in Canada and the United States he completely dismissed and made no mention of what happened during the Labor Government's Administration between 1972 and 1975. Opposition members turned off the pumps and drills. The downward slide happened so quickly that, when we came back into power, not a drill was left searching for oil, from one side of Australia to the other. The same attitude which pervaded the latter sentences of the speech of the honourable member for Hawker existed then- kill, kill, kill. If somebody was about to make a quid, the Labor Party wanted to jump on him and destroy him. How do Opposition members think that Esso Australia Ltd found the Bass Strait oil? It was as a result of encouragement from previous Liberal-Country Party governments prior to the advent of the 1972 regime. There is no escaping the fact that some of our problems today are a direct result of the policies practiced by the Labor Government in 1972 to 1975. The honourable member condemned the Government of today. No one in his right mind could have predicted the overthrow of the Government of Iran. Nobody could have predicted the shortages of oil. Despite that, this 
Government has been following progressive policies. 
It is not my intention to get bogged down in talking on the matter which has been alluded to by the previous  speaker.  It is my job tonight- it is something which I willingly do- to speak in support of this Budget. Australia was like a ship that had been torpedoed from forward to aft and aft to forward again and again. The people changed the crew in 1 975. For the first couple of years, all the crew could do was to man the bilge pumps and work like crazy to save the vessel. The ship is now afloat and its recovery has been sufficient under the new crew to allow the crippled vessel to sail forward once again. Australia is going forward again. There is no way in the world that a majority of the Australian people will fall for believing that, because the Australian Labor Party has changed captains, the crew will behave any differently than the reckless, destructive way in which it manned the vessel between 1972 and 1975. The first mate for much of that period was the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He is now captain but neither he nor his crew has shown that they have learned anything about seamanship. This speech will not be an exercise in ALP bashing but I believe that almost every speech made this year by Opposition members indicates that they would do it all over again. While some of the Labor Government's changes were to the country's advantage Australians will continue to pay dearly for a long time for that disastrous era of 1972 to 1975. 
It is my intention to speak of the positive aspects of the Budget which will ensure the completion of the recovery of this nation. However, before I do so I wish to turn my attention to a matter of policy which causes me concern. Let no Opposition member say 'Hear, hear'! That which causes me concern is the possibility that my Party might be adopting the Labor Party's policy in killing off the incentive of the better off and slightly better off in our community to care and to provide for themselves in the future. After my reference to the question of policy, I will allude to the Tax Commissioner's blunder of the century. I refer specifically to the upper limit of $1,200 on the taxation deduction for people who contribute to superannuation and insurance schemes. I recall with much pleasure that the Liberal Party's founder and father, the late  Sir Robert  Menzies, and his protege, Harold Holt, were meticulous in keeping the taxation deduction figure for insurance and superannuation contributions updated in accordance with inflation. 
The insurance and superannuation deduction figure of $ 1 ,200 was set in 1 967. Since then inflation has devalued that figure to the point where a deduction far in excess of $3,000 would be needed even to equal the value which was set in 1967. We changed the Public Service superannuation scheme in 1977. In so doing, we probably gladdened the hearts of almost a quarter of a million Commonwealth public servants. They now contribute only 5 per cent of their salaries to superannuation. The scheme receives a massive injection from the taxpayers to make it workable. The only public servants who would feel this provision would be those who earn in excess of $24,000 a year. Private or self-employed citizens and non-government superannuation funds have no access to the subsidy that the taxpayer contributes to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. The non-government employee contributor has to contribute far in excess of 5 per cent of his income to have even a remote sense of security in old age. Therefore, 10 per cent of salary would be a normal contribution to superannuation. Anyone earning in excess of $12,000 a year comes within the group that I have broadly described as the more fortunate and the slightly more fortunate. Today, with an average income of over $200 per week, that involves many Australians. 
Unconsciously we are, like the Australian Labor Party when in office, destroying the ability and, more importantly, the will of the successful and moderately successful to care for themselves in their retirement years. Lest I be accused of caring only for the wealthy, let me say this: The competition for the available funds directed to welfare each year is well known in this place. If we are to kill the will, the incentive and the ability of the more fortunate in our community, in the future they will be putting their hands out to share in the restricted availability of welfare funds. I passionately believe that a government of my Party's persuasion has a very deep obligation to ensure that the stage is set not to allow people to dodge tax obligations but to ensure that the better off look after themselves so that when they reach old age their investments are caring for them and they do not become competitors for the restricted amount of money available for welfare. 
I now refer to what I believe to be the Tax Commissioner's blunder of the century. It is not often that politicians or parliamentarians have the opportunity to examine closely the fine print. This year's tax return Schedule 'A' is very much the same as Schedule 'B'. Tax returns have prob ably been filled in already by some 5 million Australians. The grave error which I have discovered occurred not just last year, 12 months ago, but also the year before. It was in that year, 1976-77, that the Commissioner- this is his responsibility completely; we cannot blame poor  Mr Howard  for this one- changed the format of the form. He inserted a concessional expenditure rebate section in the middle of the tax return. I seek leave to incorporate a section of the tax return in  Hansard.  I have the permission of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who is at the table. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read ass follows 

Life insurance premiums and superannuation- Life, sickness and accident insurance premiums and payments to a friendly society (excluding medical or hospital benefits fund payments) or to a superannuation, sustentation, widows' or orphans' fund are subject to rebate (maximum $1,200) if made for the benefit of yourself, your wife or husband or your children, with the exception of: 
life insurance premiums where the first premium under the policy was paid on or after 1 January 1973 and benefits, other than death benefits, are payable within ten years; or 
contributions to a superannuation fund where the fund 's income is not wholly or partly exempt from tax. 
Do not claim for fire, household or motor vehicle insurance under this item. 
The maximum amount which is rebatable in respect of life insurance premiums and superannuation fund payments is $ 1 ,200. If the total of your payments exceeds $ 1 ,200, the full payments made should be shown in the space provided for details of your expenses but only the $1,200 which can be claimed should be shown in the 'Amount Claimed ' column. If you have paid both insurance and superannuation, you should reduce your claim for superannuation by the amount of the excess over $ 1 ,200. If the excess is more than your payments for superannuation, you should simply claim $1,200 for life insurance in the 'Amount Claimed ' column. 
It is important that you show full details of payments made, particularly where they exceed $1,200. Should any portion of the excess relate to payment for a superannuation pension or an annuity, the Taxation Office will keep a record of such excess amounts (known as the 'Undeducted Purchase Price'). When the pension or annuity becomes payable, a part of the pension or annuity, calculated by reference to the excess amounts, may be free of tax. (This aspect is further dealt with under the heading ' Undeducted Purchase Price' on Page 5 
Where you have claimed a deduction or rebate in your income tax return for this year or any previous year for premiums paid on a life insurance policy under which the benefits would have become payable after the expiration of a period in excess of 10 years and the first premium was paid on or after 1 January 1973 but the policy was not in force at 30 June 1979, a statement should be attached explaining the circumstances in which benefits became payable or the policy matured, or was forfeited or surrendered. 
-In that section the Tax Commissioner tells people in a nutshell that, if their superannuation or insurance contributions exceed $1,200, not a cent above that amount will be considered as a tax deduction. Of course, that is a matter of government policy to which I alluded a moment ago. The instruction form tells people to disclose full details of payments made, particularly where they exceed $1,200. When they retire and become superannuated, the Tax Commissioner will look at the amount that they have paid in excess of their deductible contribution and offset that overpayment against the taxation that will be applied to their superannuation. Superannuitants are taxed. A person receiving $10,000 from a superannuation scheme would pay the same tax as any other individual who earned $ 10,000. But in this case the Commissioner of Taxation says: 'Okay, if you put in thousands and thousands of dollars in excess over the years I will work out how many years you are expected to live and then I will reduce the figure upon which I actually apply tax'. That gives that person an advantage in terms of his not paying tax on the money that he never received a reduction or a concession for in the earlier years. That is what that form says. 
I hold up the form to show it has eight pages of very close print. By comparison, it makes an insurance policy look like a daily newspaper. I take the form itself that every taxpayer would look at. On the top line there are the words 'Complete this page ONLY'- the word 'only' is in capital letters- 'if your total expenditure on items Al to A13 exceeded $1,590'. This is the 'A' return. I have worked it out that people not employed in the Public Service and who are lucky enough to have access to a superannuation scheme have to pay, as I said before, about 10 per cent to 12 per cent of their income to be in a scheme that is even remotely worth while. Therefore, those people receiving in excess of $12,000 per year who are healthy, who have not adopted a child, who have incurred no education expenses or who live in rented accommodation, will be ripped off when they need the money the most, in their retirement years. This happens because the form that the Taxation Commissioner gives people to fill out is totally misleading and is in total conflict with what is actually required. 
I do not know what the Government is going to do about this matter, but considering that this practice has been going on for over the past three years, I believe there is probably a real obligation on the Taxation Commisioner to get out all those returns of people who have not sent in that middle page in the last three years and write to them informing them of this very grave error. It is a poor reflection on the Taxation Office officers and on those people who make their living out of preparing income tax returns professionally that they did not pick up this mistake. If I had not picked up this discrepancy and it had been allowed to go on, Australians from one side of the country to the other would have been going on merrily, unaware of the fact that their entitlement was going down the drain because of the misleading advice given by the Taxation Commissioner. 
Whilst on this subject, I want to make one further point in relation to policy. It is a pity the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is not here, but I notice the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  is here. I am quite sure he will relate what I say to the Treasurer. If the Government is going to regard as non-deductible for taxation purposes an amount in excess of $1,200 and people are contributing, say $2,000 or $1,500 and therefore paying an excess of $800 or $300, which is being put in reserve, then when that person who is now 30 years of age reaches 60 years of age the Taxation Commissioner will say to him: 'In 1977-78, 1978-79 and 1979-80 you contributed $1,500 in excess. I will give you a reduction or offset this in your retirement years'. With inflation- it is expected to continue at 10 per cent, as we have been told-the value of that $1,500 will be like a peanut. I strongly advocate that the Government has an obligation to ensure- if it is not going to correct a $1,200 upper limit figure for life assurance and superannuation- that this money is indexed to retain its value. What the Government is doing at present is sitting on a stockpile of money contributed by taxpayers and being held in reserve. Because of the effect of inflation, the value of money is diminishing and the people of Australia will not be really getting the return that should be due to them in today's values as a result of the contribution they are making. 
In my remaining two or three minutes I want to refer to a couple of the good aspects of the Budget, particularly the increase in the amount the Government is making available for the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Fulltime Training. There has been an increase of $26m. This will have the effect of increasing the number of eligible apprentices from 56,500 to 85,000. It surprises me that no previous speaker in the Budget debate has alluded to this point. Here we have this tremendous increase in the number of young people who will be assisted to become apprentices. The actual increase in the subsidy to employers will be from 1 January next year when it will rise from $6.50 per day to $13 per day for apprentices receiving off-the-job training in the first year of training. 
I refer also to some of the allocations made in the Budget. Almost $9,000m is being set aside for social welfare. That is an increase of 9.6 per cent and represents a total outlay of 28.2 per cent of the Budget. Health has an allocation of well over $3, 000m, representing 10 per cent of the Budget. Without trying to cover too many more subjects, I conclude with the observation that here we have well over 38 per cent of the nation 's Budget spent on social welfare and health. When people clamour for more and more expenditure in other arenas, they must realise that whilst the Government recognises their case, there is only so much money available. The only alternative to saying no at times is to follow the Australian Labor Party's policy of 1972-75 which would jack up taxes. If a Labor Government were ever returned I am positive we would see such a policy implemented because the only way it would ever finance some of the hairbrained schemes it proposes in this Parliament would be to hit the working man in the pocket by taking more taxation from him. I advise the Opposition to get its feet on the ground and recognise the fact that the working man wants to take home as much of what he earns as possible while at the same time recognising he does have to make a contribution to the welfare of the nation. 
Whilst I do not agree with everything said by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  the previous  speaker  in this debate, I believe that he, like the  Deputy  Leader of his party, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  has put forward thoughts and considerations which should command at least thoughtful consideration from both sides of the House. This Bill was discussed in the Senate for some 32 hours and, as a result, some amendments were made. Indeed, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  promised at the conclusion of that debate that he would look closely at some aspects of the Bill. I also recognise that this Bill is vitally important to the very security of this nation. It follows the events at the Hilton Hotel in Sydney and the terrorist attack on the late Lord Mountbatten. That was the most recent example of terrorism. It also follows the recent suicide of Jean Seberg, the American actress, whose health deteriorated as a result of alleged persecution by a similar organisation in the United States. I believe that examples abound which make it the obligation of every member of this Parliament to consider seriously the views of other persons in this House. Nothing should be dismissed lightly. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is being given, by this legislation, a very unique role in this country. The Director-General of ASIO simply will have to report to the Minister and to the Leader of the Opposition. Yet that report may be as useful to the Minister as the reports of the egg board and the honey board. The Bill does not stipulate anything; it contains only general terms. The Director-General may choose to give the Minister a four-page report which says absolutely nothing. The previous  speaker  advocates that ASIO should be fully accountable to the Parliament. The very nature of ASIO's duties requires it to work behind the scenes in many an instance. However I do not regard those groups in our community who are expressing concern at this time, and who have been lobbying members on both sides of this House, as being ratbags who have nothing about which to be concerned. The very definition of 'subversion' is wide open. Organisations of a peacekeeping nature or of a surveillance type have an ability- I am not saying that it exists today- to attract a particular type of person. These organisations have the ability to attract the occasional person who does not have the necessary balance. There is the particular type of person who can work in the wrong direction and proceed completely without balance. That in itself can be dangerous. 
It can lead to persons or groups being persecuted for beliefs which are really not of the type that would endanger the security of this nation. Whilst I can understand the all-embracing application of the definition of subversion, I can also understand the concern of some people and, indeed, the demands of some people that there must be more accountability than simply a short report or a report to a particular Minister. I speak as one who recalls very vividly the raid on ASIO by  Mr Justice  Murphy.  Sir, I  am fearful of your calling me to order, as you did the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  so I will refer to him as the then Minister, Lionel Murphy. 

 -Or Senator Murphy. The tragedy is that Opposition members had developed such a paranoia over so many years about what ASIO supposedly represented, that in Launceston in 1971 the person who was later to be the responsible Minister  (Senator Murphy)  had to defend the very right of a security organisation to exist. It was ironic that some two years later he was to lead that early morning raid on the ASIO headquarters in Melbourne. I think it is understandable to a degree for the imaginations of people to run riot about a secret organisation. People can lose their sense of direction in their assessment of the worth of such an organisation. So important are the powers of the Director-General and his staff that I believe that there should be more accountability than simply the requirement for a small report. I know it will be argued that the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister of the day will be party to any appointment. Indeed, I was part of the reason in the early stages for having this clause inserted. But the Leader of the Opposition does not have to agree for a person to be appointed. He has simply to be consulted. It is a matter of courtesy. If he objects violently, that does not mean that the government of the day will take on board those objections and appoint a different Director-General. 
Indeed, we are lucky, as I think previous speakers on both sides of the House and speakers in the other place have acknowledged, that the current Director-General,  Mr Justice  Woodward, is a person of great integrity and a person who will carry out his duties as this Parliament would like to see them carried out. Furthermore, he will do his level best to ensure that those within his control also follow that course. But people come and go and here we are placing on the statute book legislation in which there is no sunset clause and there is no promise by the Government that the legislation will be reviewed in three or four years after we have had an opportunity to observe it in practise. 
This legislation could remain on the statute book for many years to come. Indeed, the history of ASIO goes back to 1949 when the then Prime Minister sent a letter to  Mr Justice  Reed appointing him Director-General of Security and requesting him to establish and operate a security service. It received a second charter in 1 950, again in a Prime Minister's letter. By this time  Mr Justice  Reed had been replaced by the then  Colonel C.  C. F. Spry. The first Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act was passed in 1956. It was not amended for 20 years. I wonder how long it will be before changes are made to this legislation. I wonder whether we are placing in the hands of the unseen, strengths and powers that will be used in a wrongful way that we in this Parliament cannot envisage. How can we review a Bill if we are not to be told anything about ASIO. 
I have acknowledged at the very outset the unique role that an organisation such as this plays. I acknowledge that the Organisation, by virtue of clause 5 of the ASIO Bill, is to be responsible for ensuring that there are no activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions or the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth. It is a little like motherhood. Nobody in his right mind could oppose that. There are sections of this Bill which every member of this House, if he is loyal to this country, would uphold. The Bill defines activities to be watched or that are subversive as activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. Constructions have been placed on possible interpretation of that provision. I will not enter into that here and now. 
I am trying to say that the Attorney-General saw fit to assure the Senate after 32 hours of debate that he would look at certain aspects of the Bill. In view of the fact that there has been inaction since then, we in this chamber have an obligation, spurred on by his acknowledged interest, not to allow the Bill to pass through this chamber simply with a rubber stamp of approval. Indeed, I deeply believe that this Bill is of such moment that it should command a reference to a legislation committee. Frankly, I do not understand why we set up legislation committees if, when a Bill of this nature comes before us, it is simply put through the House of Representatives on the basis that it was well discussed in the Senate. I believe that this chamber possesses the balance and the ability that the other chamber of this Parliament possesses. Historically, most of the Prime Ministers and Ministers of this nation have come from the back benches of this House. However, we are to be deprived of the close examination of this legislation that a legislation committee can provide. 
I sat in on the legislation committee's examination of the Customs legislation. Indeed, we also brought about alterations to the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)-  a former Prime Minister- and I stood fast for the authorisation of the telephone tapping of suspected drug offenders to be vested not in the hands of the Attorney-General but in the hands of a judge. That legislation committee brought about changes to that Bill. There has been no suggestion that that Bill has been rendered ineffective and inoperative. I am not suggesting that such a committee would necessarily agree to bring about changes but the Bill is at least worth further consideration. Once it becomes an Act and it is proclaimed the whole nation will live with it and from then on hardly a person in the country will know exactly how it is being administered. 
I mentioned earlier that this Bill closely follows grisly acts of terrorism in the world which indeed have been occurring for some years and which make nobody in this place at all happy. I also hold the view that, because there have been events within our country and elsewhere, one should not simply abandon for all times the rights of all individuals. Those who hold high positions might well be described as sitting ducks for an act of terrorism. Those of us on the back bench and, indeed, members of the Opposition enjoy a relatively more secure feeling as we go about our work. I am not saying that those at the very top should be endangered in any way by a lessening of surveillance, but I am saying that we should avoid getting into the situation which we have witnessed in the United States of America and in other countries- I do not necessarily accept the views of the previous  speaker  that Australia is already at that stage- and avoid ever reaching that stage of bringing our security organisation into disrepute, we should now build into this Act those measures which will ensure that members from both sides of the House, whilst they may not necessarily be aware of everything, at least trust the organisation. In the closing moments of my contribution this evening I make the suggestion that I believe it is desirable for the Director-General of ASIO to be made answerable to members of this Parliament. I am not saying that he should be answerable to the whole Parliament. There should be perhaps a handful- say five- including highly respected and trusted senators and members of the Opposition, sworn to secrecy. They should swear that they will never divulge what they are told. 
-The honourable member for Kalgoorlie says: 'What rot'. I have been told that his electorate is strewn with remnants of Skylab. He should get out and find them and leave this matter to people who have a long term interest in the subject. The group could be sworn to secrecy. It should act in a responsible way. If, after consultation in relation to the way in which ASIO was working, the group came to the conclusion that ASIO was not carrying out its responsibilities in the way in which it should, then instead of talking to the world, to the Parliament and the Press, it should carry out its very high and responsible position by consulting with the Director-General and the Attorney-General. It should say: 'Well, really, if ASIO is to be a trusted organisation about which we have no fears, things should be done this way and with a little bit less pressure than is presently being applied.' For instance, I could trust the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  as a person on such a body. There are senators and, of course, members on this side of the chamber who could be trusted. I make that suggestion, perhaps with only a passing hope that it might be acceptable. But I believe that would be a most worthwhile improvement to the Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Some one and a half hours have passed since discussion commenced on the meaning and the effects of the words 'likely ultimately'. If ever there was an example of how wise it would be to have a discussion in a legislation committee instead of holding up the entire proceedings of the Parliament, this is most certainly it. Unfortunately, that battle was lost last night when the Government in its wisdom decided that everything was going to be done in this chamber. Given the fact that the Australian Labor Party proposes 1 1 pages of amendments, we could well be here for two years. I have listened to the debate very carefully, in this chamber, or in my office. I have listened to the cut and thrust from both sides of the House. I was deeply impressed by the sincerity of the arguments put by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  I was equally impressed by the arguments put by members on the other side of the House, although there are some weaknesses in those arguments. 
The point is that the words 'likely ultimately'just two words- have become a stopping stage so early in the Committee stage of the debate. I can see why the Government wants to safeguard against possible events; I can see why the Government wants to allow the security organisation to place interpretations on likelihoods; but I can also understand the fear of some of the members opposite, that when this definition is left in the hands of those who do not answer to even the Parliament it is possible that that definition could be wrongly interpreted. 
-Answer to the Parliament? The  Deputy Chairman  will not allow me to deviate from those two words but I remind the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that all the Director-General has to do is to give a little report to the Leader of the Opposition and to the Minister. It is not even specified how detailed that report must be. That report might exclude everything of importance. The Minister's remark was very provocative. He is causing me almost to fall into the trap whereby the  Deputy Chairman  will bring me to order. Far be it from me to want to attract his wrath. 
I do not want to wander away from the clause, but I believe that if we are not to make amendment to the Act we must ensure that we have a group comprising members from the Opposition and from the Government parties with whom the Director-General will consult annually as to how the provisions of the Act are being enacted. That would allay much concern. Many of the proposals being put forward by the Opposition would probably be abandoned if the Government would agree to this point. The fear which is being expressed in this discussion todayperhaps it is more obvious to the listening public than it is to members of this House- is the fear of the unknown. Perhaps the Government sees political advantage in having the Opposition continually offside with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I believe that the protection of the security of this nation is way above the level of politics. I hope that the Government will accommodate the reasoned views of members on both sides of the House and not simply dismiss them out of hand. 
I will be very brief because I cannot see any real point in taking up the full 10 minutes, as the three previous speakers have done, in the Committee stage. That it is happening underlies once again the plea I made yesterday evening that this matter would be far better discussed by a legislation committee because we have spent three hours 10 minutes discussing two words all afternoon. In my second reading speech on Tuesday night I said that anyone who opposed this particular clause would be opposing motherhood itself. I never really believed that anybody could possibly come out against this clause. But then we heard the quaint interpretation of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I say that with respect, because although often we disagree violently with the views of the honourable member, there is a feeling of friendship towards him. He cited as an example his experience when coming back from the defence of Darwin. I am not sure whether he served outside Australia. Did he? 
-He was a soldier who had served overseas and in the defence of Darwin. He talked about a train stoppage, a strike, when he was coming back on leave. There was a strike and the soldiers had to find alternative means of getting back to Melbourne or wherever they were going to take their leave. That underlies the quaint, shortsighted approach which has been espoused by the honourable member. The fact is that the shipping of armaments to men involved in the defence of Darwin and men fighting in the Pacific and in Europe, men who were laying down their lives in the name of this country and in the name of freedom, could well have been affected because some stupid shortsighted people back here decided to pull on a strike. As one who is too young to remember the war, it surprises me to learn that there are members of the Opposition who are quite happy to accept that even in that time of national emergency people just went out on strike as they chose. I have spoken for exactly two and a half minutes. I endorse the preservation of the clause in its present form. I am quite sure that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, will be rather stunned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, thank you for giving me the first opportunity I have had this year to speak in an adjournment debate. I would not rise unless it was to raise an issue of great importance. I, along with many of my colleagues on this side of the House- no doubt honourable members on the other side of the House have been sympathetic to my cause- have been advocating a slowing down in the metrication changes. The Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in the Senatefar be it from me ever to attack a Minister- has turned a blind eye to the comments being made by me and others, as if we belong to another world that is old fashioned and out of touch. The previous  speaker  from this side of the House, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  was a member of the British Parliament before coming to this country. It is not often that I find myself in strict accordance with the views of his mother country. It pleases me to draw to the attention of the House a decision of the British Government on 26 September to abandon the program of forced metrication. 
The people of this great country of ours, Australia, where we have fought to preserve freedoms, face penalties of up to $400 if they even think in imperial measurements. Such has been the campaign of that Norgard-headed Metric Conversion Board. Now that is no reflection on  Mr Norgard,  of course, but that has been the approach that has been adopted. It scooped up the States and they said: 'Come on, agree to it or we will penalise you by up to $400 if you do not convert'. New South Wales- this will take the smile off the faces of Labor Party members sitting opposite- went along meekly.  Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Corcoran  in South Australia went along. Regretfully Tasmania and Victoria also agreed. Those two bastions of freedom, Queensland and Western Australia, have said: No, we don't think what you are doing is right'. Now the attitude of those two great States has been vindicated by none other than Great Britain. 
I think the arguments of the Minister in the other chamber, when he pushes down our throats the fact that there is hardly any nonmetricated country in the world, are fast falling to pieces. Every day a different country in the world looks and thinks: 'What have we agreed to? Shall we continue along the path of stupidity and force our people, including the aged, to convert to a system which they do not really understand?' Anyone can go to any other country in the world and quickly cope with the change in currencies. We have got to learn. Many of the older people in our community turn off from metric measurements because they can survive in their own little way by not paying too much attention to it. 
What I am suggesting is that Australia, under the Metric Conversion Board and with the guidance and leadership of the current Minister for Science and the Environment, has been endeavouring to set a new world record in the conversion to metric. I do not believe that the aged people of this country should have to suffer simply to meet the whims of a few powerful men. I make the plea that every member of this Parliament take note that the United Kingdom has abandoned temporarily, for some years indeed, this program. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  an article from the  London Financial Times  of 27 September 1979 and an article from the  London Daily Telegraph  of the same date. 
Leave granted. 

 The articles read as follows- 

Imperial measures gain reprieve 
No more compulsory metrication orders will be made,  Mrs Sally  Oppenheim, Minister for Consumer Affairs, said yesterday. 
This would mean that in many cases it would be up to each shopkeeper, garage owner or publican to decide whether to sell goods in either traditional English or metric measures. 
The announcement was made in a speech when  Mrs Oppenheim  opened a pickle factory at Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk. 
A Department of Trade spokesman stressed that  Mrs Oppenheim  's speech did not mean the metrication program would be stopped- merely that there would be no compulsion. 

 Mrs Oppenheim 's Statement follows a plea by  Mr Maxwell  Wood, the board  chairman,  to introduce legislation to compel traders selling fresh meat, fish, fruit and vegetables to abandon the imperial system within four years. 
Reprieve for Pint and Inch 
A reprieve for gallons, pints, pounds, inches and other imperial measures was announced yesterday by  Mrs Oppenheim,  Consumer Affairs Minister. She said no further compulsory metrication orders would made. 

 Mrs Oppenheim preempted a report to be submitted to her soon in which the Metrication Board will ask for dates to be set by which goods "weighed-out" in front of the customer- such as meat, fruit and sweets- must be sold only in metric measures. 
Her announcement means that in many cases it will be up to each shopkeeper, garage owner or publican to decide whether to sell his goods in the traditional English way or like traders on the Continent. 
One problem is that 1 9 million school-children have been taught the metric system and many of them have not been taught the imperial system. 
This is because Britain was due to become a fully-metric nation by 1975. 
Finally, this is the first time I have had the opportunity to speak in the adjournment debate this year. I hope people recognise that I would not have done so unless I had been motivated by a very strong feeling on a most important subject to so many people out there in the community, including residents of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Minister's efforts at the United Nations to focus international attention on the urgent need for humanitarian relief in Kampuchea and, in particular, to efforts by the Australian Government to airlift food and medicine into Phnom Penh. Has the Government been successful in airlifting humanitarian relief supplies into Phnom Penh? Has there been an appreciable response by the international community to the human suffering in Kampuchea? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the very real need that the Japanese have for our fish, has it been suggested to them lately that a refusal to renegotiate the agreement could well lead to such hostility that, come the agreement's renegotiation in 12 months time, the view of the people may well force the Government to deny them any access at all to the fishing grounds off the coast of Queensland inside the 200-mile limit? 
-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a speech I made in this place some weeks ago when I drew attention to the serious error I discovered in the concessional expenditure rebate section of the income tax form as provided for the past three years? Is he aware that the Commissioner of Taxation has since given an assurance that he will 'consider' the matter when the 1980 form is drafted? In view of the error having more than a potential cost to taxpayers of millions of dollars in lost concessions in their retirement years, will the Minister request the Commissioner to ensure the error is corrected for next year's return? Will the Treasurer have discussions with the Commissioner to ensure further that he takes measures to alert all taxpayers who have been misled by the wrongful advice in the stated period? Finally, does the Minister personally know anyone holding a high position in this country who has been a victim and who is able to explain to the Commissioner that just to consider it is not good enough? 
I would like to reply very briefly to the comments of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  when he suggested that members on this side of the House had less than a passing interest in the welfare of our returned men. I want to remind the honourable member for Corio of the way members of his party undermined the effort in Vietnam in the earlier part of this decade and how that made it more difficult for our soldiers to fight So many of them lost their lives unnecessarily as a result of the campaign which was being waged by members of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Acting Speaker,  when one looks at the boat-loads of people that are leaving Vietnam and realises that people risk their lives day after day, and many lose their lives, one sees that the soldiers who fought in Vietnam were fighting for a just cause. So much for the clap trap of the honourable member for Corio.  Mr Acting Speaker  - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  The comments which the honourable member for Fadden has made are hardly relevant to the Bill. If he wishes to have the indulgence of the Committee, he should firstly address me as the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee and not as Acting  Speaker,  and secondly, he should speak to the Bill. 
I will abide by your command,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I wish to make the passing observation that I hope that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  who is at the table will bear in mind that whilst what we are doing in this Bill will gladden the heart of many an allied exserviceman who has since come to this country, it is very hard to sell this to the Australian serviceman who was prepared to serve overseas but, because of circumstances that were beyond his control, never got out of this country and into a situation where he served in an area declared a war zone for the purposes of the Act. I would just remind the Minister that whilst I also subscribe to helping all people, there are some Australians who, through no fault of their own, were prepared to lay down their lives in the name of this country but who were not called upon to do so. In times like these they are being unfairly disadvantaged. 
I direct my question, which is truly without notice, to the Minister for Transport. I draw the Minister's attention to recent reports that a certain committee is advising the Government that eight-cylinder cars and large vehicles should attract penalties by way of sales tax et cetera. Is the Minister aware that some of the six-cylinder vehicles belonging to the Commonwealth fleet are getting a petrol consumption as low as 14 miles to the gallon? Does he share the view that the imposition of emission controls over the last few years could well have placed modern six-cylinder vehicles at a great disadvantage compared with four or fiveyearold eight-cylinder vehicles in terms of the consumption of gasolene? In view of the energy crisis and the continuation of the increase in the price of fuel, will the Minister undertake, immediately and urgently, a study to determine the effects of emission controls over the last few years, not just the stage proposed for next year, and report to the Parliament and to the nation? If the results indicate a necessity to abandon latter year emission controls, will he return to the previous situation? Will the Minister give the eightcylinder cars a respite? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker  we are discussing- if my quick additions as you read out the expenditures for the various departments in your introductory remarks are correct- in the vicinity of $6,000m or a little more. That probably represents the entire income tax contribution from the Australian work force over a period of, say, four to five months of the year. So it is indeed a significant amount of expenditure. This is indeed an historic occasion, as it is the first time that honourable members have attended Estimates committees while the House has been sitting. Varying views have been expressed in this House tonight as to the effectiveness of those committees. As one who originally held the view that it would be a crazy exercise I wish to make some comments. Perhaps like other honourable members in this place who have been here for some years, I have started to believe that established procedures are the only procedures. 
I was pleased that the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  concluded his observations by commenting that the system that we have just practised has a lot to offer although it might need some of the rough edges knocked off. I have been completely converted to the view that if some of the rough edges are taken off this new Estimates procedure, it has a lot to offer. When we reflect on the previous system of inquiring into Estimates when members would come into this place and make parochial speeches- I am as guilty as the worst or the best of them in that respect- we realise that the Estimate meant absolutely nothing. I agreed with the honourable member for Lyne when he said that this chamber is the most important chamber. One point that he did not make- perhaps he accidentally omitted to make it- is that those Estimates committees are but an extension of this chamber. The same rules as exist in this House pertain to those committees. I speak as a convert. Sometimes converts are the worst people to speak on a subject because they are trying to justify the reasons for holding a view originally. I really believe that if this Parliament turns its mind to improving the exercise that we have carried out, the Estimates committees will have a lot to offer. I highly commend my colleague the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  for having been such a champion of this cause. Frankly, I thought that he had gone around the twist when he pushed and pushed to have this system introduced. 
-The honourable member for Perth makes an observation which has a ring of truth about it. But having said that, I believe that in practice it has a lot to offer. I look at the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  who is sitting here. He might have a different view. He is also a lover of the institution of Parliament and I am sure that if he were in different boots and had sat at the other side of the table instead of being a Minister he may well have had a different appreciation of the matter. But far be it from me to conclude what his view of this new system might be. 
-Does the Minister like the new system? 
-We have the Minister's view and that is helpful. I make this observation: I believe that Question Time which we go through in this Parliament day after day, when we question Ministers on their portfolios, is almost a charade inasmuch as Ministers cannot be expected to know everything about their departments- unless questions relate particularly to the Minister's personal efforts. We sat in the various committee rooms crammed to the door with public servants. We observed that when members of the committees asked questions the Minister, understandably, relied so heavily on individual officers to get the exact answer. Even at times some of the officers were quivering and looking at each other as if to say: 'Who is going to answer this?' Such observations simply highlight the fact that there are limitations on a Minister's ability to know everything that is going on within his Department. Undoubtedly, there would be a few who would profess to know everything that is going on. But even if they do they can give us only generalised answers. I believe that the exercise that we have gone through recently is one which, if improved uponperhaps the question is the improvement of the quality and the ability of honourable members of this House to probe- will enlighten not only the Parliament but, as a result of that, the public too. I believe that is a far more beneficial result .than we are able to obtain under the old system. 
I was generally impressed by the calibre of the higher echelon of our Public Service, though as my friend, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown),  so ably observed to me tonight, it is a pity that we did not see the First Division boys. All we had generally were first assistant secretaries appearing before us, because the permanent heads did not appear at many of the committee meetings. No doubt the honourable member will elaborate on that further as the night continues. One observation I would like to make is that I believe that politicians, by virtue of their very position, find it difficult to capitalise on a situation if they see an opportunity to make a mark. Honourable members on both sides of the House, if we are to have a repeat of the Estimates committees in the form in which we saw them this year, must remember at all times that when we are given an opportunity to ask questions, and because of the number of departments there is a restriction on time, we must utilise the available time to the utmost advantage. It is really not a time for intertwining questions with lengthy speeches. No doubt honourable members on both sides of the House, being in a peer situation, witnessed on many occasions colleagues really overdoing it in taking up the time that was available for questioning. 
I conclude by making the observation that we in this Parliament have a duty to ourselves, to the Parliament and to the nation to become perhaps a little bit more skilled in our techniques of directing questions. On the other hand, the Ministers can perhaps assist us. I do not believe the situation should exist in which the members of the Ministry should see themselves as being the quarry and having to defend rigorously the system which they represent. Any person who took the time as an observer to sit and watch the procedures and look at the documentation would recognise that there is hardly a Minister in this chamber who is really capable and able- I do not use the word capacity in relation to his ability because it is beyond the ability of almost any man- but there is hardly a man alive who could amply fulfil the requirement of supplying information on every aspect of his department. For the first time we were given an opportunity as a Parliament to sit down with those who serve the Ministers, who serve the Parliament and who serve the public. We were able to question the Ministers and the public servants and to be given explanations. This probably brought a great deal more enlightenment to this Parliament in that respect than has been evident for a long time. I commend this new system. I congratulate, once again, the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  I hope that next year the Minister for Defence will be given an easier time by the Committee. He too might come to appreciate the finer points of this new system. 
I will repeat briefly the comment I made last night in relation to Estimates Committee A when I praised the initiative and determination of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  inasmuch as it led to this new system for the consideration of the Estimates. I do not know whether any Opposition spokesmen would be prepared to allow me to have incorporated in  Hansard  a short extract from the Estimates committee proceedings. 
I am,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Leave granted. 

 The extract read as follows- 


 - Mr Purnell-Webb probably would not be surprised at my interest in the subject because when he was at the Government members rural committee on 6 March I raised the question of the martin fishing. But the increase in the estimates on page 15S of the explanatory notes is up to $3m in the revenue from fishing licences and charges. Considering that the Japanese will be paying us about $1.4m, would you give details of where the other money is coming from? Secondly, do the agreements from where this money might be coming from affect the marlin grounds in North Queensland? Thirdly, is some other country involved which has paid a pittance for entry to our marlin grounds and if so is it too late for us to do anything about that? Fourthly, when was it decided that it was too late to do anything about the North Queensland marlin fishing agreement with the Japanese, and over what period did these negotiations take place? Finally if the Japanese were to agree to a suggestion in the  Brisbane Telegraph  the other day alleging that you said you were considering asking the Japanese whether they would voluntarily withdraw from about the 13th to the 18th parallel and 200 miles out, would it cause much trouble to the Government income if, as a gesture of goodwill and of our bona fides, we were to offer to return to the Japanese the $ 1.4m? 
-Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that his Department is in the midst of disposing of large parcels of land in my electorate, in other areas of Queensland, and possibly elsewhere in Australia, which formerly were purchased for Defence Service Homes Corporation purposes? Is the Minister aware that I wrote to the Minister for metrics drawing his attention to the fact that the land was being advertised with a metric description, yet only recently he advertised his Victorian property for sale in imperial measurements? He has since told me to take it up with the Minister for Administrative Services. Is the Minister aware that the metrics Minister used an imperial description in order that people would understand what he was selling? Will the Minister request his Department to readvertise the government land in question in imperial measurements, as did the metrics Minister, to ensure that the taxpayers obtain the greatest possible interest and financial return on the land offered. 
-by leave- I welcome the recognition by the Government that a new approach is needed to the census. I suppose that I could justly and rightly claim to be the father of reform of the Government's attitude to the census. I remember very well being vilified in the past for protesting at some of the approaches which had been utilised in the eliciting of information. I wish to refer to the comments of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  He said: 
The Government recognises that asking questions of householders in order to obtain statistical information, involves a degree of intrusiveness and places a burden on the community. 
I respectfully suggest that the previous Australian Labor Government in respect of the last census and the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971, when the previous census was done, were each as guilty as the other in their approach. I believe that the Commonwealth Statistician was the victim and the prisoner of those who simply wanted information for information's sake. 
I have promised my beloved Whip that I will not speak at great length this afternoon although I could go on for hours and hours on this subject. I impress upon our absent Treasurer, through the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner)  who is present as the Government Minister on duty in the chamber- I notice how carefully he is listening, and as a member of the Cabinet he can pass my message on- that I will cause problems in 1981 as I did in respect of the last census for the Statistician and for the Government if the question of privacy is treated as lightly as it has been in the past. 
Lest people think I be obsessed by this subject, let me conclude by citing one very valid example of the trickery which was indulged in during the last census. We were told in special briefing programs how envelopes would be provided for members of the public who wanted to keep their information secret. They could put their information in the envelope and seal it. I later found out- this is when I really started to jump up and down- that there was only about one envelope printed for every 100 people in the population. The only way one received an envelope was by asking for one. Nobody made any effort to advertise the fact that envelopes could be obtained if information was desired to be kept secret. It was about that time that I jumped up and down once again and all hell broke loose. Census collectors would have happily turned the alsatians on me, but I stood firm because I believed that it was a question of great principle. That is but one example of many which exist. 
I am very pleased- and my view is different from that of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who preceded me- that there is a reduction in the number of questions to be asked. Quite frankly some of the questions that were asked in the past have been simply to provide fairly useless information. I remember the audacity of one other questionnaire conducted by the Statistician- it was not a census, but a household survey- who even asked the public to name a relation who had lent them money in the last 12 months. To me, that is a gross invasion of privacy. I think the Parliament and the people of Australia are probably now grateful that for so long I have been a champion of the cause. But more importantly I am grateful for the recognition by the Law Reform Commission and by this Government that my barking a decade ago was not without reason. 
One of the tragedies of parliamentary life is that so few people are interested in the intrusion into the rights of the individual. Whilst I am not for a moment inviting the calling of a quorum, there is not a great interest even in this Parliament in some of these matters. I am one of the members of this House who had a very early interest in the question of privacy and liberty of the individual. Indeed,  Hansard  records going back into the late 1 960s, shortly after my election to Parliament, contain questions that I directed at the time to Ministers relating to subjects such as telephone tapping, tape recording of conversations and other matters. It is a sad fact of life that not many are interested. I cannot accept or believe the constant claims of members of the Opposition that the Government would have known earlier this year of the ills that were later found to be affecting the Narcotics Bureau. I cannot believe that we on this side of the House, as well as members on the other side, would have been asked to spend many long hours in the legislation committee stage and in this House and prior to that in meetings of the Government members committee, where we were successful in bringing about changes, if all the time the Government was aware that the case of apples was ready to be thrown out, and that it was no longer a matter of one bad apple. I cannot be- Ilieve that I would have been asked to abandon some of my strong views in the name of the apprehension of the dreaded drug pedlar if the Government knew. I cannot believe that that would have happened, therefore I must reject some of the suggestions made by the previous  speaker.  I would be most distressed if I ever learned that his claims had any truth. 
At the time changes were made to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, which did not go through a legislation committee, and the Customs Bill, which did, the House agreed to the changes for two very emotive reasons; firstly, the question of national security, and secondly, the question of narcotics. To be in favour of a narcotics dealer is like being not only against motherhood but also being seen to be tramping motherhood into the ground. I said at that time that nobody in this House, either Labor, Liberal or National Country Party, could stand a bar of a narcotics dealer. But that was not really the question at the time. The question was this: How much are we giving away in the pursuit of the dealer? There was some apprehension about the wisdom of what we were doing but, because of the nature of the exercise, members on both sides of the House agreed to many changes being made. 
We placed extraordinary powers in the hands of our narcotics agents. I believe that at that time some members of this chamber would have held the view that that group of men working within the Customs organisation would have from time to time contact with police but overall that contact would be minimal. Indeed, one of the criticisms of the narcotics squad was that it was seen as being a separate identity, and perhaps in some ways that could be construed as being in its favour. Now we are being asked to agree to the transfer of those powers to the Australian Federal Police. Let me state at the outset that a policeman's life is a most difficult one. A policeman is frequently unloved and unwanted. He can be hissed at and spat upon by an unruly crowd, yet the moment each individual in that crowd needs assistance he or she rings for a policeman. Those are the facts of life, the weaknesses of human nature. People we call upon to protect us at one moment the next moment we look upon contemptuously, and when I use the word 'we', I am speaking about the population in general. 
Another fact of life is that there are thousands and thousands of policemen throughout Australia, and if only ten per cent of the case is rotten it means that a lot of policemen in Australia can hardly be trusted with excessive powers. What I have just said means tha't 90 per cent of members of the police force can be trusted to exercise their powers properly. But when we hand over so much power to 100 per cent of the police force, we have to bear in mind at all times that a percentage of that group cannot be trusted with that power. I have frequently heard the question: How do we police the police? I do not believe that anyone has yet come up with a proper answer. However, when we as legislators enact legislation we must ensure the greatest possible protection for the population from the bad apples in the case. A lot of people ask: 'So what if they use a tape recording?' Such people are dismissing out of hand the argument about whether the Telecommunications (Interception) Act refers specifically to bugging a line or to recording away from the line. The fact that seems to be lost in terms of the liberty of the individual is that a tape can be altered. The meaning of a conversation can be changed easily, with modern electronic equipment, by simply deleting a word here and there and re-recording. Unfortunately, many people today have lost sight of the dangers that exist. There are those within our law enforcement agencies, and indeed the publicity on this of late should give us concern, who I do not believe would stop at retaping something if it meant that they could get their man. I think the word they use is 'brick'. They brick him. They fabricate evidence to ensure a conviction. This is usually motivated by the belief that a person, through the use of clever lawyers or because he himself is clever, has previously avoided conviction. The fact of life is that manipulation does go on. 
I believe that it behoves each and every one of use, before we agree to anything of this nature, to be sure that we understand exactly what we are doing. If there is justification for what we are doing, and there certainly is in terms of the apprehension of narcotics dealers, we should take every possible measure to ensure that we minimise the opportunity for unscrupulous law enforcement officers to abuse their privileges. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  is concerned about the police force being able to use information it has collected, by virtue of the special warrants given to it, for the purpose of obtaining information in relation to narcotics. I present the scenario of a Customs organisation with a narcotics squad which is purely a specialist group. We transfer the narcotics squad to the Australian Federal Police, and we are told that corruption will be less in the future because there will be a continuing transfer system within the police force. Constable So-and-so cannot look forward to spending the next 15 years in the narcotics squad, nor can Sergeant 
So-and-so, because they will be transferred. If Commissioner Woods is listening tonight, I hope he will take this into account. 
-The No. 1 dealer has just spoken. I hope the Commissioner will remember that the real danger is that when a narcotics squad officer who has acquired certain information unrelated to narcotics is transferred to another branch of the Australian Federal Police he will have to be some type of Houdini to resist the temptation to utilise the information that he acquired in his previous posting. That is just one point. 
I go back to the beginning of my speech, when I referred to the problem of policing the police. I hope that my comments are not misconstrued. Of course I did not mean what I said in my retort to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in the way some may have thought. The honourable member obviously is too poor to hold the position which I suggested he could hold. I hope that at all times it will be recognised that the police are now being given powers which they have never previously possessed. Indeed, the Australian Federal Police is being given powers in the narcotics arena which are way above the powers of its State counterparts. A few minutes ago I was talking about the officer who, having been transferred within the Australian Federal Police, might have to be some sort of Houdini. The Comrade syndrome is also understandable. Police work with other police forces, whether they be Federal or State. I wonder whether, despite the provisions of the legislation, members of the Australian Federal Police will be able to resist the temptation to pass on to their State counterparts information which they have accidentally gathered as a result of the special rights now being given to them to assist them in their pursuit of narcotics dealers. Even though such action will be in contravention of the legislation, I wonder whether there will be instances of officers saying: 'I will give you some information in return for what you give me'. 
I am pleased to say that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  in the pre-House discussions on the legislation was responsive to some suggested changes. He recognised- and this is to his credit- some of the difficulties we were bringing upon ourselves. A clause in the legislation now requires the Commissioner to report to the Minister the outcome of each and every telephone tap. I hope that the Minister for Administrative Services or the 
Attorney-General will utilise that provision to the maximum. If the Minister is slack, the little enough protection that people have now will certainly be lost. The approach of the Minister will certainly determine the approach of the Commissioner. Although the present Commissioner may be an outstanding man, he will not hold that position forever. We are handing over to a police force, powers which have never before been handed over, except in the name of national security. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo asks about drugs. He misses the point. This power was extended in May this year to the Narcotics Bureau to assist it in dealing with drug offenders. We are now transferring that special power to the Australian Federal Police. I recognise that there are people in our community who say: 'I do not care if my telephone is tapped every night; they will never hear anything of interest from me'. Some people will give away everything to ensure the apprehension of the drug dealer. I am equally concerned that the dealer is apprehended, but I add as a proviso that these powers should be closely examined before they are handed over, to ensure that we are not eroding one area in an attempt to bring about arrests in another area. 
I hope that the Australian Federal Police is a thousand times more successful than the narcotics squad was in pursuit of the dealers. The powers which we are giving the police officers will assist them in that work. But for a specific reason I plead with the Australian Federal Police to resist the temptation to abuse the privileges and powers which are being extended to it. If the powers are abused the reaction in the future may well be to curtail them. This would lead to greater freedoms for the dealers we all, with one accord, want apprehended. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
