I would would like to start by congratulating the first 2 speakers in this debate,  Senator Knight  and  Senator Kilgariff,  who made their maiden speeches today. They certainly showed that they have much to offer the Senate. I hope that the Senate's judgment after I have made my speech will be that I have as much to offer. I would like- although I have done it privately- to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your election. It is a particularly heartfelt matter as far as I am concerned because of our close association over a number of years. I wish you all the best,  Mr President.  I am quite sure that when your term finally ends people will say: ' He is now missed '. 
I would like to refer to the electors of South Australia, who made me feel very humble on 13 December 1975 when they elected me as one of the senators for that State. It is a great honour to have been elected to represent the views of the people of that State and to act on their behalf before the people of Australia. It seems that that is the best way properly to demonstrate the federal system in this country. It is something in which I firmly believe. It is something that I will vigorously promote in every way I can. I believe that the only way in which we can obtain meaningful results is by bringing government and the elected representatives close to the people. The federal system best promotes that. 
One of the greatest problems that Australia and indeed South Australia have faced in the last few years has been that of small businesses in this country. A philosophical commitment made plainly obvious in every election is that Australia stands for small businesses. Small businesses are, in fact, dominant in the Australian scene. They must be promoted in order to prevent the monopolisation of both capital and labour in this country and to bring forward new ideas. There are many different academic definitions of small business, but I define it in terms of, in the manufacturing area, those companies or businesses which employ fewer than 100 people or, in the retail or wholesale area, those which employ fewer than about 20 people. There are 240 000 firms in that category operating in this country. They contribute 96.5 per cent in the manufacturing sector, about 98 per cent in the retail sector and about 76 per cent in the wholesale service area. 
I will deal briefly with some problems that have faced them. Firstly, as honourable senators know, are there great difficulties in creating credit for small businesses. Many changes have to be made in this area. The chief way in which credit is created for small businesses is through overdraft, and honourable senators well know that. It is almost the only way in which small businesses can obtain credit. This is something that has to be looked at. Small businesses have been affected radically by taxation. Companies have been affected chiefly by Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Statutory bodies and other organisations promoted by the Government stand in the way of small businesses in ways which probably were not foreseen by those who first promoted them. The Prices Justification Tribunal affects small businesses in a way that is difficult to understand. There are other bodies, such as the Trade Practices Commission and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which have significant effects on small businesses. 
Five million people are directly dependent on small businesses. It is not only an economic matter. The social aspects are a most important matter when one discusses small businesses. What about the stresses and strains that are placed on people who are not successful in their businesses and who find it difficult to make their way? In South Australia we see the promotion of worker participation. I believe that that is a very important aspect in relation to small businesses. If there is close co-operation between management and labour and close identification of interests and purposes we can have a determination to achieve the best result in the interests of all the people and not a section of them. It is also to be recognised that large scale businesses are not always economic because of their size or because of the principle of the economies of scale. There are issues which promote decentralisation and also promote efficiency. The location of industries is important. There is the importance of techniques that produce new methods which are discovered and developed in particular businesses and which are then promoted more widely. The influences of local markets and the way they affect small businesses and help their promotion is also important. But most importantly it is a breeding ground for new industries. It is the start of new ideas- the point at which people get the germ which develops into a greater business at some future time which creates more jobs and more wealth, not necessarily for the employers or the employees but for the community as a whole. 
I turn to some of the problems that small businesses have faced in the last few years. Let us look at the question of depreciation as it affects the taxation laws. We all know that small businesses have been affected dramatically in the last few years because they are unable to fund the purchase of plant from savings and the retention of earnings. This is related to the treatment of assets in the balance sheets of companies on a historical cost basis rather than on a replacement cost basis. We know the problems that that brings in taxation. The Commissioner of Taxation refuses to allow depreciation of assets on a replacement cost basis as a taxation deduction. In effect, that becomes a tax on capital. What it does is destroy the retained earnings in a company and reduce it to nothing. 
The present system is totally inadequate. I refer honourable senators to an accounting system employed in West Germany whereby the amount of the depreciation allowed on the replacement cost of fixed assets is calculated in proportion to the equity holding of the proprietors in the business. That is to say, the amount of depreciation charged is calculated not on total assets but on the amount of equity owned by the shareholders. That has some fairly significant implications for Consolidated Revenue, as all honourable senators will realise. I think that the time is opportune for a very smooth implementation of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee. 
I turn to Division 7 tax. We all know what that means. In a private company, out of $100 worth of net taxable income earned we are allowed to retain $28.75. This provision was implemented originally to prevent the avoidance of personal tax- probably a laudable ambition. But when it was introduced private company tax rates were significantly less than those which applied to public companies. We find that in the last few years private company tax rates have reached an equality with those of public companies. So there is a matter of equity at issue here. We find that people who are operating as shareholders in private companies are, in fact, worse off in equity than people who are operating as public companies. It is not possible to decide how taxation will fall upon one who is operating as private company, whereas in a public company one's other income is taken into account in assessing one's liability to tax when dividends from that company are taken into account. I believe that the matter of equity is of great importance; it is a most serious consideration. 1 would like to suggest a couple of alternatives. 
As we know, the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia has promoted the proposition that there should be a 75 per cent retention allowance instead of 50 per cent retention allowance. I would support that on a temporary basis although, of course, I would like to see a 100 per cent retention allowance promoted as soon as possible. I refer honourable senators to the Liberal Party policy which was announced during the election campaign. It was stated that private companies would have the option of being treated either as a partnership or as a company. That again puts the assessment of tax liability back into the hands of the individual. It is the way in which we can establish equity in that matter while leaving the financial management aspects in the hands of the individual operator. I think that is most important. I believe that there is a great deal of support for that point of view in the academic community which is involved in this area. 
I turn now to finance for small businesses. During the last 3 horrendous years when interest rates have been higher than at any other time since Federation, small businesses have been left almost in a dramatic state of collapse. We still do not know how many are on the brink of disaster. The feedback that I get is that there is a great number of small businesses still teetering. How can we face this short term problem while planning for the longer term? We know that the long term problems usually associated with small businesses are in the area of inadequate security. Companies find it very difficult to obtain new finance for their projects without their being able to demonstrate that they do not really need the money. We need a situation where the banking system and other financial bodies are prepared to assess things on a broader basis. I am not suggesting government subsidised funds for these purposes; in fact, quite the opposite. I believe that the financial institutions in Australia provide the answer to these problems, but they really need development and promotion by an active body such as the Government. 
Recently- I believe- in 1973 the Small Business Advisory Bureau was created. It is a body with important aims. It is making a very strong attempt to get into the area of government involvement in small business. However, currently it lacks the support of professional bodies and of the businessman himself who feels that he cannot really get the top advice that he needs at the critical times when he needs to make the right decisions. Perhaps some natural distrust arises from the fact that a government department should be involving itself in advising businesses about anything, and I guess that is well understood by the business community. I would like to suggest that, because of the lack of breadth in the area of the Small Business Advisory Bureau, what we really need in this country is an independent statutory authority whose purpose is to act as a watchdog on behalf of small business. The statutory authority could watch the complexities of legislation and how they intertwine with one another, how they confuse the general business picture, and how they make it difficult for businessmen to promote themselves. 
Such a body should have a board comprised of professional men and businessmen whose purposes are well known and who understand business in the broad meaning of the word. The board could consist of and could employ as consultants, engineers, professional managers and accountants- people from the top of their various professions who have the capacity to understand the problems of each businessman and who will charge their full professional rate for their job and are therefore able to provide the top advice for small business. I believe that if this were promoted in the right way the various professions would subscribe to a subsidy to achieve this aim on a collective basis. I believe also that there could be some government involvement in this area. The difficulties facing the areas in the financial field that I think need some assistance at this time arise from the fact that there is a heavy reliance on bank overdraft by businesses. That situation has to be relieved. Long term finance has to be found for small businesses in such a way that they do not commit themselves to short term 90-day bills or purely day-to-day overdrafts in order to keep themselves going but also to provide long term fixed assets from those funds. 
It would be the activity of the statutory body that I have mentioned to promote education in the fields of small businessmen, both lenders and borrowers, and to use the various bodies that do offer these financial services. I am thinking of such bodies as the Mortgage Guarantee Insurance Corporation which offers insurance against mortgage defaults. This service enables small businessmen to borrow up to 85 per cent of their total requirements compared with bank allowance on a conservative valuation basis of about 60 per cent of the general amount available. I think that there is an important area of education to be looked at and to be promoted by the statutory body that I am suggesting. 
I turn briefly to a few of the other bodies that have been actively promoted by various governments which involve themselves in the affairs of small businesses. I refer chiefly to the Prices Justification Tribunal. We know that the PJT is supposed to operate only in respect of companies whose sales exceed $20m a year. However, as is well known, small businesses generally tend to depend for their living on larger businesses. The impact on smaller businesses is very keenly felt when decisions are not made quickly by the Prices Justification Tribunal and when it is difficult for big businesses to obtain increases in prices based on increases in that rate of return which guarantees a return on revalued assets. 
These are assets calculated in accordance with their current cost and not their original cost. This method does not necessarily give the full return on the true capital employed in the business. We need to establish and to keep well in mind the guidelines on which the Prices Justification Tribunal must operate in order to keep the total capital of businesses intact, to replace worn out and obsolete assets and to provide a sufficient rate of return upon that capital. I believe there to be complete compatibility between the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal, the trade union movement and small businesses when those guidelines are properly understood and interpreted. 
Briefly, may I conclude on this aspect with some comments regarding the various State laws which come to affect small businesses. One of the most iniquitous recently has been the State payroll taxes. These taxes have risen dramatically in recent years and have been affected by wage inflation. Greater costs have been driven on to the business community and particularly in South Australia this has had its effects where business has been suffering from the recent effects- within the last two years or so- of the introduction of increased worker compensation benefits of the order of 100 per cent of workers' average annual wages. The net result of the rapid escalation of these costs has been to affect business in South Australia to a degree greater than I believe businesses in other States have been affected. 

 Sir, I have canvassed in only brief fashion some of the significant problems of the small business area. I do not have all the solutions; furthermore, there may be problems which arise which we are unable to contemplate right now. The depth of the problems faced by small business is great. All I think that I can achieve tonight is to point these facts out. But perhaps the more important point I should make is that these problems are worth solving. To use an old adage, small business is big business in Australia. From it comes the drive for growth in the economy. This is the key to economic success in our current fight to rebuild a shattered economy. I urge consideration of these matters by the Government. Most of them are more urgent than we think. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications seen a report in the  Financial Review  of 5 February 1976 that Telecom Australia will market small PABX telephone switch systems in Australia and limit its approval for the distribution of larger units to 2 private manufacturers? Will the Minister say whether this proposal has been implemented? If so, will he ask his colleague to review this matter urgently? If not, will he ask his colleague to make an early statement to that effect? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the considerable dissatisfaction with the quality of television reception in the Streaky Bay district of Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, as demonstrated in a recent petition signed by 770 persons? Will he ask his colleague to request Telecom Australia to consider urgently ways and means of improving this service, perhaps through the erection of a translator installation in central Eyre Peninsula? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications appreciate that in some areas of Adelaide within 4 miles of the General Post Office, Telecom Australia cannot provide new telephone services- even for urgent business purposeswithin a period of one year or more? Does he consider that this is probably the worst record for connections in Australia? Can he ask his colleague in another place to take urgent steps to provide emergency support for Telecom's operations in South Australia- from other States, if necessary? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I ask: Can he confirm that his colleague has announced that in future the Industries Assistance Commission will publish only draft reports for analysis by industry rather than final ones? Will that assist or adversely affect in any way the obtaining of widespread and open industry comment on those reports? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources seen recent statements from the Dow Chemical Co., the Australian Resources Development Bank and the Premier of South Australia that the establishment of the Redcliffs petrochemical works should proceed and that they are awaiting a statement of attitude from the Federal Government? Can the Minister say whether any approach concerning this matter has been made to the Federal Government? 
I wish to make a few brief points concerning the general aviation industry and the way in which it has been affected through the Labor Government's imposition of the cost recovery program since 1973. We know that this country demands a general aviation industry that is well organised, that is set up properly with new equipment and that is, in fact, able to operate smoothly. There are many reasons for that. We have only to think of the problems that we have as regards defence to realise the benefits of having trained pilots available to take part in any war that may break out. We know also that because of the vastness of the Australian continent we need to have people trained and skilled in flying in all sorts of conditions in order to carry out properly an effective transport system throughout the country.  Senator Devitt  mentioned this earlier. 
It must be a help to decentralisation if we can provide this sort of service. Again, we know that we are prone to disasters from time to time and we can therefore consider the value of the general aviation industry in assisting the welfare of the victims of floods, earthquakes and, of course, cyclones. I compliment the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in particular for the way he intends to have carried out a thorough examination of the cost recovery procedures as they will operate in respect of general aviation. I know that this has been particularly well received in the industry. I hope that it will be carried out with all expedition and that we will be able to get answers and settle on a proper approach to the problem of cost recovery. We know, of course, that the cost recovery program established in 1973 was brought in in a hamhanded manner, in such a way as to pay no regard to the factors I mentioned earlier. We know that it was totally inequitable to apply an across-the-board system of charging general aviation the same sorts of costs as were applied to commercial aviation. 
In a country of our size all sorts of equipment and airport controls are available at airports. These are designed specifically for jet aircraft, special commercial aircraft and aircraft of that sort. They do not have any application in the general aviation area but the previous Labor Government applied a cost system which affected general aviation. That resulted from a lack of communication between that Government and the aviation industry. Although  Senator Keeffe  said that we were cutting down on safety measures, I see it the other way round. In implementing a proper cost recovery program that is assessed on an equitable basis as it applies to the commercial industry and general aviation we will get more effectiveness from safety measures. 
I think the honourable senator has missed the point. It is a matter of how one recovers costs. We are talking about the cost recovery side of aviation rather than the cutting down of safety measures. I congratulate the Government on its stand, a stand which will allow an increase at present of only 1 5 per cent which can only be regarded as in line with inflation and which will be generally accepted in the industry. 
Firstly I should like to touch on a few points raised by  Senator McAuliffe  which obviously need to be answered. I was amazed to hear his remark that the Budget deficit was caused by something other than mismanagement. Of course it was due to mismanagement.  Senator McAuliffe  said that the Labor Government was merely a victim of the times. Consider the decision that was taken in the August Budget by the then Treasurer to sell to the people the concept that wages were going to rise in this current financial year at the rate of 22 per cent per annum and the victory claimed when the wages did not rise at anything like that rate. What then was the purpose of the Budget? 
-Of course he did. But what was the purpose of the Budget if he contemplated that wages were going to fall, during this financial year? Was it that the Budget was not drawn on the correct premise? Do we dare mention this? 
A lot of people have a lot of doubt about that. If he had faith in indexation why did he not demonstrate it in the Budget? Why did he not state it clearly? Why did he not truly estimate the rate of wage increases? Let us turn to a few other matters that  Senator McAuliffe  mentioned. There always seems to be a terrible problem about the superphosphate bounty.  Senator McAuliffe  talked about the contribution that has made. 
How many times does it have to be spelled out for Opposition senators that the benefit of the superphosphate bounty is derived by the workers in that industry and that the bounty creates jobs in the superphosphate industry? I was totally confused about  Senator McAuliffe  's point concerning the investment allowance and the cost of installation versus the allowance on plant. Perhaps we can expand on this matter later on. I misunderstand his point totally. I cannot see what he was getting at. 
-Of course they will. I hope that when the legislation is introduced into the Senate the cost of installation will be included in the cost of the plant, and that investment allowances will be allowed on that, because the cost to the average .businessman is the total cost and not the price that he pays on the invoice for the plant. It is the cost of getting the plant into operation that counts. That is the figure that really matters. 
-It is not a matter of subsidy. It seems impossible also to get the point across to the honourable senators opposite that there is such a thing as a return on investment. They continually talk about the profits of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd amounting to $100m, which is related not at all to the total value of that company's investment in Australia. We know that in historical cost that company's investment in Australia is of the order of $ 1,800m. So a profit of that order is a return of about 5 te per cent on the investment. I ask  Senator McAuliffe  whether he would accept that as a bond interest rate. I am sure he would not. If we were to relate that profit to the replacement cost of the investment of BHP today we would probably be talking about a cost of approximately $3,000m and therefore a return of approximately 2 per cent. Perhaps we should talk about a few matters. 
-Thank you very much. We know that in 1972 total government outlays were of the order of $ 10,000m. In 3 years the previous Administration increased that sum to $22,000m. We know what that has done for this country in transferring resources from the private sector to the government sector. We can understand the socialist philosophy of honourable senators opposite who consider that that was probably an excellent thing to do, without taking account of its effect on business in general and the great engine which generates the revenues that would bring lasting and better future benefits to Australians. When we consider that expenditures by the Government have to be paid for generally from taxation revenues, is it not quite clear that in such circumstances taxation must rise? We have seen the effect of that in wage claims. 
The policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been to introduce wage and tax indexation. Have we not seen also the effect on business and the way that that affects the ability of firms to reinvest in stocks and in plant to ensure that they remain viable? Have not honourable senators opposite ever heard of the theory- not merely the theory but the well proven theory- that every $ 1 of public expenditure crowds out $3 of private expenditure? 
-It has been proven. One only has to consider the experience of the United Kingdom in this matter. 
I happen to live in Australia. It is clear from the White Paper handed down in the House of Commons that consideration is being given even by people of the socialist party in Britain to major cuts in public expenditure. That is happening in the home of socialism- the model for the implementation of Labor policies in this country. I invite honourable senators opposite to read that document. If they are unable to obtain it here they should obtain it from the British High Commission. The activities of the Mathews Committee have been well recorded and its recommendations need to be implemented in the very near future in order to restore incentive in this community. How many honourable senators opposite have been able to consider the problems caused by a lack of incentive? The cost of depreciation on replacement of assets and the replacement of stocks at inflated values does not affect only the replacement of assets this year. The effect is cumulative and in coming years will lead to an astronomical increase that will prove to be a tremendous burden on business. One of the things that amazes me about honourable senators opposite is that they never seem to think about the future. All they consider are the effects on business today. They consider, for instance, the wine industry in South Australia, which is generating profits of some $70m a year, and say:  Let us have a piece of that '. 
We know who imposed the wine tax in the 1973 Budget, who adjusted section 31a of the Income Tax Assessment Act and who imposed the brandy excise. Those matters are leading to the destruction of that industry. 
I will not go into that matter now, but I can satisfy  Senator McLaren  on it later. Sometimes the Government has been charged with being preoccupied with the deficit. The Australian Labor Party says that we can continue to expand the public sector simply by printing money. 
We are looking at your sort of solution to that. You are the ones who are stating that. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  We have often been charged also with being Friedmanites, that is, with being monetarists. The Government is supposed to be taking the point of view that the total money supply is the problem. To turn the argument around, let us consider the situation that the Labor senators are promoting, that is, an increase in public expenditure in a situation in which there is a deficit of nearly $5,000m. They still have not explained where that money would come from. The purpose of the Loan Bill, of course, is to seek to pay for last year's expenditure. That is the essential point to recognise. It is not as though the deficit is some sort of mythical figure. It is in fact representative of the expenditure that has occurred. It is altogether too simple a Keynesian argument that honourable senators opposite apply. I turn at this point to the matter of the Australian savings bonds which  Senator McAuliffe  has mentioned. The effect of the introduction of the Australian savings bonds has been to mop up excess liquidity from the private sector. 
I heard honourable senators opposite say that we are bankrupting the building societies. I wonder whether those honourable senators have in fact taken the trouble to contact the building societies in the last week or 2 weeks since the Series 2 bonds have been in operation. I assure them that if they had investigated that aspect they would have found that money is flowing in at something like the previous rates. It is also fair to say that if there is any problem in relation to the provision of housing finance, which I doubt on present statistics, the reasons for this are tied up with the problems brought about by bottlenecks in the building industry caused by the shortage in the supply of land. I can quote from personal experience in relation to my own State. There is a shortage in the supply of land in my own State arising from the Dunstan Government's price control legislation and the Land Commission's operations in that State. One has grounds for wondering whether there were ulterior motives behind the introduction of those measures- perhaps the nationalisation of land. 
I come back to the original point that  Senator McAuliffe  raised in relation to the total Budget deficit. He pointed out that the Budget deficit had increased from some $2,700m to some $4,500m due to the success of the Labor Government's measures in keeping wage rises down. I simply reiterate that in that event it is quite clear to me that the Budget was in fact incorrectly drawn up in August 1975. It is evident not only from that point but also from quite a number of other matters which have been raised in Estimates Committee debates subsequently. It is my view that the present circumstances are entirely due to the mismanagement of the previous Government and that the errors that occurred in that Budget in 1975, irrespective of whether they were intentional or otherwise, have resulted in major problems in our society. It is my view that there is only one way to attack the real problems and that is to restore incentive in this community. The way to do that is to provide for lower taxation to the businessman and the wage earner and thereby give them an incentive to do more and to ensure that they can keep a major proportion of their earnings. There are major concepts involved in this respect. I will not go into them tonight. 
For instance, there is the question of the impact of social benefits on the consumer price index and the way in which that has affected wage indexation. That is a matter of some concern which I think we need to look at further. It is obvious that the Labor Government's policy in regard to the Budget has caused a great deal of the economic problems in this community from which we will suffer for some years to come. We are seeing in this Loan Bill an attempt to pay for past expenditures and to overcome the problems which exist within the community. They have to be aimed towards a future increase in incentive in this country. I believe that the measures that are now being implemented by this Government will lead to that. 

 -Mr President, I seek the indulgence of the Senate to explain a matter of a personal nature on which I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-Last night during the debate on the Loan Bills  Senator Hall  claimed that certain remarks in relation to land commissions in South Australia which I had made during the course of my speech earlier constituted a denial of the value of land commissions and, indeed, my political heritage.  His  claim is not correct. I referred to land commissions in the context of delays in obtaining the steady and even supply of building land on the market. The introduction of the Land Commission in South Australia has contributed  inter alia  to a slowing down in this supply due to some doubt amongst developers as to its real purposes and intentions. In the area of low cost social housing, I acknowledge  Senator Hall's  comments as to the value of the South Australian Housing Trust. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I shall be very brief. I support the activities of the South Australian Housing Commission and of the South Australian Government in regard to social housing. It is in that area that I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Hall.  I believe that that support does not challenge the truth of my assertion that the Land Commission's activities have caused shortages in the supply of average-price blocks of land in the metropolitan area. 
The Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill was introduced in November 1973 by the then Labor Government. The charge is lc per lb on exports of meat and edible offals and is intended to recoup the costs to the Government of export meat inspection. In addition, there is a charge of 0.6c per lb on beef and veal which was introduced to recoup the Government's contribution to the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign. I think that has been well canvassed by  Senator Primmer.  In regard to the eradication campaign, it has been proposed that the Government introduce a levy of $ 1 a head on cattle slaughtered in Australia. I was very interested to hear  Senator Primmer  recognise the equity of that point of view. The revenue from that levy will result in an equivalent amount of money being raised towards the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign. It is an equitable matter. 
It has previously been proven that the biggest beef producing areas are the ones that have been paying the most, irrespective of the amount of beef that has been actually exported. Queensland, which is by far the largest exporter, bears most of this charge although proportionately the value of its exports is less because of the generally lower quality type of beef produced in that State. It seems to me now quite clear that Queensland is faced with most of that burden. It is possible that it is more equitable to share the charge between all States. Under the present system, export producers are paying for the Government's contribution to the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication. Under the new system, the flat rate will be fairer and it will not affect the service that is being offered. This is especially fair, I believe, when we consider that the home consumption price is higher than that received on the export market. Therefore, one could argue that the domestic market is properly charged with a fair portion of that cost. 
Furthermore, the new system should be less costly administratively. Instead of having to worry about recording the levy in the books of both exporters and producers, a simple levy on a carcass basis will be easily collected at a convenient point at the abattoirs. As well as the Federal Government's charge to recoup its contribution to the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis, a State levy is imposed. The levy is equal to 5c for every $20 of value. That seems to me again to be a more equitable method than has previously applied in the federal sphere. It is charged through the account sales to the seller. With the switch to $1 a head charge on all cattle slaughtered, the State charge will not be affected. However, it will mean that the Northern Territory will now have to pay part of that cost. Previously, all other producers were completely subsidising the Northern Territory to the extent of the State levy. 
At present, the Commonwealth pays the States $50 a head for diseased cattle. The IAC in its report recommended that this be changed to 50 per cent of the value of the animal. This seems again a more equitable approach. The amount should be tied to the value of the animal rather than to a flat rate. This matter has been in the hands of the Federal Government since April 1975 but no one has bothered to do anything about it. Again, the equity of that is clear to all. I would like to make a few comments about the activities of the Joint Committee on Prices chaired by  Mr Hurford  in 1973. It came out in favour of a recommendation that a beef export tax of 10c per lb be imposed. 
-Fortunately, Caucus overturned that decision. I am pleased to have that assurance from  Senator O'Byrne.  In fact, even if it was misrepresented, it certainly was a damaging factor on the industry. The tax was imposed in November 1973. At that time the Minister said that the tax would not have an impact on the producer. He said that the tax would not be passed back to the producer because the market was so buoyant that the exporter would not have to do that. Yet, within a few months the market price fell and because of the situation exporters found themselves in, naturally they passed on the tax. 
Perhaps we ought to examine the reasons for the fall in prices. Of course, all honourable sentors know that in January 1973 the price being received on the United States market, which was accounting for 69 per cent of the total exports, was 112c a kilogram. By June 1975 that had slumped to 65.6c a kilogram, as reported by the IAC. I think the reasons for this slump have been well canvassed by  Senator Scott  in the debate earlier. Perhaps one other factor should be mentioned and that is the effect of the revaluations of the Australian currency in December 1972 and September 1973. This effected an increase of 12 per cent on the cost to importers of Australian beef. It is not fair to say, of course, that all of the problems brought upon the industry were caused either by the tax or the revaluations but some of the factors involved in the slump could be laid at their door. The lack of appreciation of the problems of the industry and the depth of those problems is perhaps something that can be laid at the door of the Government. Fortunately, in September, as a result of belated action by the Labor Government in respect of the problems of the beef industry, the Industries Assistance Commission presented its report. One of its recommendations was the abolition of levies, which is the purpose of this Bill. The recommendations dealt also with the several other matters which have been canvassed here tonight. 
When this Government came to power, it acted immediately on the report. Perhaps the former Government was not able to move so quickly on its recommendations, but surely the action that has been taken in respect of the abolition of the levy, as distinct from the other recommendations, is the matter on which action can be taken quickly. That action should have been taken as soon as possible in order to alleviate the situation facing those in the industry. 
I turn to consider quickly the inspection costs involved in the beef industry. We note that probably there are few other industries which are charged with the sorts of levies and costs which fall upon the meat industry. We know also that pressure comes from importing countries, as has been pointed out by  Senator Primmer,  to ensure that the health of the beasts slaughtered is of the highest quality. It seems to me that these costs are what might be termed social costs because those charges result from the imposition of standards by outside forces on the industry. Therefore, those costs are properly taken up and borne by taxpayers as a whole. I point out that the previous levy was approximately 10 per cent of the dressed value of the beast. 
The beef industry is a great industry. It is one of those Australian industries which rank most highly on our list of industries. Some 75 000 people are employed on the farms, in the abattoirs and in the sales area. We know that it is a cut throat industry; that has been demonstrated time and time again by the United States of America imposing restrictions on imports of beef. The Australian industry, we found, was brought to its knees in the last few years. 
The levy, introduced in 1973, has been a major factor in the current malaise afflicting the industry. Let me quote some figures to illustrate my point. The gross value of production by this industry fell from $ 1,022m in 1972-73 to $5 19m in 1974-75. Half of that decline-that is, a fall from $653m in 1972-73 to $324m in 1974-75- is attributable to a loss of exports which would represent solid additions to the nation's balance of payments. It is therefore quite reasonable to assume that the Government should move as quickly as possible to implement the other conclusions contained in the other report of the IAC. Notwithstanding these remarks, I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide details of expenditure to South Australia for disbursement by the Land Commission in that State (a) since its inception and (b) up to the most practicable date. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of the huge increases in telephone costs of as much as 600 per cent to emergency fire service units in non-metropolitan South Australia? In the light of the significant sacrifices in time and substance made by volunteers staffing these units, will the Minister request his colleague to investigate the matter with a view to reinstating the previous concessional charges? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Minister seen a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 25 March 1976 that Uniroyal Pty Ltd is considering moving its factory from South Australia to Victoria due to cost disadvantages in the transport of its products? Is it not a fact that industrial development in South Australia has depended on the efficiency of its work force, a wage cost advantage arising from cheaper living costs and industrial peace, to offset this freight cost disadvantage? Is it not also a fact that South Australia now suffers labour cost disadvantages to a worse degree than other States due to the impact of the Dunstan State Government's unreal policies relating to workmen's compensation as well as high charges for utilities, land and other taxes, including payroll tax? Will not these disadvantages restrict vigorous industrial growth in South Australia, inhibit investment in that State and thereby jeopardise the future of the State? 
-My question is addressed to  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen reports that the South Australian Minister for works,  Mr Corcoran,  claims that a lack of communication on the part of the Federal Government is jeopardising the implementation of the $100rr water filtration scheme in Adelaide? Will the Minister request his colleague to make an early statement on the continuation of the Federal funding program for this scheme? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that radio station 5DD, a closed circuit radio station operating from the Media Monitoring Service of the South Australian Premier's Department in Adelaide, has recently been established? Is it not significant that the call sign, 5DD represents the initials of a well known political figure in South Australia? Is it not a fact that Telecom is providing landline and switching facilities for the relay of the station's broadcasts? Can the Minister say whether these activities are undertaken within the laws governing broadcasting in Australia? 
I do not intend either to delay the Senate on this matter. I merely wish to highlight one or two points in relation to Commonwealth-State problems in this area. I make the point that whereas since 1949 we have seen an increase of the order of 62 per cent in government securities on issue from the Commonwealth Government in my State of South Australia we have seen an increase of some 500 per cent in State government indebtedness. That brings with it a number of side issues and problems, not the least of which is the rising interest payments which my State, through its Budget, needs to bear each year. In 1972 interest paid on State debts as a percentage of total outlays amounted to 1 7.3 per cent. In 1975 it rose to 18.3 per cent. As the general burden increased it rose, as a proportion of the total debt, by 8.79 per cent from an average growth over the previous 25 years of about 6.5 per cent. So the problem which we are discussing today is one which not only relates back to 1970 but which is growing and which will have to be faced in the years to come. 
I shall mention the taxation position in the States. I refer to the percentages of taxes raised by the various governmental authorities in the United States compared with those in Australia, as I think they highlight the growing centralism which has occurred and which is evidenced by the figures which I have just given for the last 26 years. In the United States the proportion of income tax raised by the Federal Government is of the order of 70 per cent; State taxation is about 16 per cent; and local government taxation is 13.5 per cent. In broad terms the level of State government taxation in Australia is roughly equal to that in the United States. Local government taxation in Australia, however, is of the order of only 4 per cent of total taxation, which means that it is some 9 per cent less than that raised by local government in the United States. In contrast to that, of course, is the heavy involvement of the Federal Government in Australia which raises nearly 80 per cent of total taxation compared with the level of 70 per cent in the United States. 
So it is interesting to compare Federal systems which have similar forms of government. In doing so one discovers that this nation has particularly heavy centralised tax raisings which, of course, is one of the reasons why the Government introduced its federalism policy. As we know, that policy has been accepted by the various State Premiers. I might add that it was accepted by the Premier of South Australia in glowing terms, as reported in the local Press on 10 April. But that debate is for another day. I wish only to indicate my support for the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What Federal Government funds were provided to the Government of South Australia for the proposed Monarto development in each of the financial years since the inception of such grants up to, and including 1974-75, on (a) research, (b) land acquisition, and (c) administration of the Monarto Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that a field survey of the television reception in the Streaky Bay area of South Australia was conducted late in 1975 by the Streaky Bay District Council, at the instruction of Telecom Australia. 
Have the results of the survey been received by Telecom Australia; if so, what light does this throw on the feasibility of the proposed service; if not, why not. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that the Premier of South Australia has stated on one of his overseas trips that the South Australian Government intends to establish cement factories at Perak and at other locations in Malaysia? Can the Minister say whether such investments by State governments are within the limits of the Commonwealth Government's overseas guidelines for investment and whether in fact the South Australian Government intends using its budget surplus for this purpose? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seen recent reports of conflicting rulings on the acceptability of tax effect accounting by company registrars in the Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, New South Wales and other States? Is he also aware of the widespread confusion and mounting concern amongst investors as to the value, reliability and worthiness of accounting reports, which arises generally from the various accounting methods currently in use? Can the Minister say what action the Government will take to co-ordinate the activties of accounting and other interested bodies in order to resolve these conflicts rapidly? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of the proposed removal of No. 1 Aircraft Research and Development Unit, Royal Australian Air Force, from Laverton in Victoria to the Edinburgh air base near Adelaide? Is it not a fact that the RAAF at Edinburgh has moved to control the air space in the areas north of Adelaide in such a way as to limit the use of this air space for light aircraft based at nearby Parafield aerodrome, which may cause the cost of pilot training to double? Is he aware that the rising cost of training now threatens the immediate employment of 300 persons employed at Parafield aerodrome in providing air maintenance services, training, etc.? Is it not also a fact that present restrictions on air space are seriously hampering gliding clubs in the area and that further restrictions may result in forcing 2 gliding clubs in the area to close, thereby losing a valuable training facility? Will the Minister request his colleague to investigate the matter urgently with a view to mitigating its effects on the important private aviation sector in South Australia? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen a report in this morning 's  A ustralian  that  Mr John  Valder - 
Opposition senators- Oh, a newspaper report. 
I am sorry about that. Has the Minister seen a report in this morning's  Australian  that  Mr John  Valder, the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange, is urging a removal or modification of section 26AAA and section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act which not only tax profits made within 12 months but also create vagueness and doubts as to the assessability of profits made over periods beyond 12 months? Is this doubt not a serious disincentive to investment which may affect detrimentally the economic recovery that is now at an early stage? Will the Government investigate this matter which a view to the amendment of the Income Tax Assessment Act to clarify those doubts? 
I present the following petition from 83 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 1 m, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs seen reports of an assertion by the Acting Premier of South Australia that if tax indexation is introduced by the Federal Government its federalism policy will not generate sufficient funds for the use of the State Government and probably represents a gigantic fraud? Can the Minister say whether that is an accurate statement of the implications of the application of tax indexation? 
I begin by referring to the comments made from the other side of the chamber in respect of  Senator Lajovic.  I express my utter disgust at those remarks, attacking him and the statements he made. I think it is a disgrace that we should be forced to listen to attempts to denigrate a man who has risen to the top in his community and found his way into the Parliament of this Commonwealth. 
I would like to comment now on some of the most important aspects of the legislation before us and particularly on the statement made by  Mr Lynch  last week. Firstly, I refer to a couple of matters which  Senator Wriedt  mentioned in the context of tax indexation. He said that this in no way will reduce the pressure of wage demands emanating from the trade unions. He said that they will want to share the growing facilities and finance in the community. Surely the trade union movement, as has been clearly evidenced, already is sharing with all the other people of the Commonwealth in the greater amount of public funds spent on education, health and welfare and other matters to the detriment of the Budget. This has resulted in the deficit we have today. 
We have also heard comments thrown at honourable senators on this side of the chamber in regard to the so-called argument about whether we are having a consumption-led recovery or an investment-led recovery. For some reason or other honourable senators opposite cannot get it into their thick heads that obviously we are talking about a consumption-led recovery in advance of an investment-led recovery. We noticed on coming to power that one of the significant things that had been happening in the community was that stocks held by various businessmen had been falling over the last year or so. Those stocks have continued to fall. Retail sales have started to pick up in the last three or four months, as is evidenced by the latest statements as at the end of March and continuing into April. When those stocks reach levels at which businessmen feel they need to be replaced, this will give rise to a need to re-employ and to spend more money on plant and hence will lead to an investment-led recovery. This is the ultimate and long term approach in solving the economic problems of this country. The Labor Government in its period of office destroyed investment in this country because it removed incentives for people to invest. 
I would like to dwell on tax indexation, which has not been commented on very much by the Opposition for a number of very good reasons, one of which is that it recognises the great courage of the Government in introducing this measure from 1 July this year. We said in our policy speech that we would introduce tax indexation over a 3-year term. In fact, it is being introduced as a whole in the first year. What it will mean is a 13 per cent reduction in taxation in the 1976-77 year, applying from 1 July. For the edification of honourable senators opposite, I wish to comment on some of the features of the Mathews recommendations in respect of tax indexation and the system which is to be applied. We know that there are 3 different methods by which indexation could be implemented on personal tax scales. The first is to adjust taxation rates. That, of course, disrupts and disturbs the initial setting of the various rates of tax which have in them a social and public welfare content. The second is to adjust downwards the incomes of taxpayers at the end of each year in such a way that they receive the benefits of the continuing tax rates. Obviously this is arithmetically difficult and would involve great administrative difficulty. The third method, which has been adopted by the Government, is to adjust the taxation brackets. This is the simplest method and the method adopted by most overseas countries. It means adjusting the tax scales by applying the rate of increase in the consumer price index to the tax brackets appearing in the tax schedules. We will have in this country a system which is world recognised and in which there is a great deal of social justice. This does not apply to the other two methods I have mentioned. Furthermore, the Government will be adjusting the rebates presently allowed for dependants and the general rebate. 
There is one other aspect of this matter that I would like to mention, and that is that when the consumer price index factor is applied each year it will be calculated so as to remove the effect of indirect taxation on the CPI. Obviously, when we are talking about the effect that will have on public revenue, that comes off one side and goes on to the other and will not have an overall effect. It is quite clear that to build that into the system would really only falsify the total picture and probably would lead to greater consumer price index increases and would be recovered in due course from public welfare payments anyway. The Mathews Committee did not recommend that in its report, but only because it felt that the Bureau of Statistics was not able to adjust its figures and certainly had no legal authority to adjust its figures for the exclusion of those indirect taxation figures. 
Perhaps I should look now at some of the reasons for the introduction of this very important measure. As people move into higher wage brackets obviously they will move into higher tax brackets. This is particularly evidenced by figures I would like to quote of average earnings in 1971-72. During that year tax payable on an income of $4,862 represented 1 5.8 per cent of earnings. The marginal rate on the top part of that income was ofthe order of 33.3 per cent. In 1974-75 average earnings had reached $7,696 a year and the tax as a percentage of those earnings had risen from 15.8 per cent to 17.3 per cent and the marginal rate had risen from 33.3 per cent to 38 per cent. Quite clearly the effect of that would be to drive the ordinary employee to seek higher and higher wages to compensate for the amount going to the Government. 
It has the effect also, of course, of producing unlegislated revenue for the Government which is over and beyond what might be expected by way of productivity and increases arising from increased employment. In fact, if we apply the figures I think we shall find that in the 2 years from 1972-73 to 1974-75 had productivity and employment been taken into account taxation would have risen by only 15 per cent. But over that period taxation collected by the Commonwealth as a result of rising personal incomes increased by 6 times that figure- by 90 per cent over the 1972-73 year. Obviously governments have a vested interest in the continuance of that sort of system. The object of this particular system is to make governments honest and to make them legislate for the taxation increases which they intend to impose on the people. 
Another factor that arises out of the application of these principles is that by adjusting the taxation brackets we retain as closely as possible rates that are relative to income levels. That is, we will have built in a system of social equity which will ensure that at any point of time people on low incomes will be taxed least and those on high incomes will be taxed most. We ensure that that system remains relative and that people do not move up the scale where they will be taxed at levels which they cannot afford. So the basic equity in the system ties in with the other principles that we have been espousing in other parts of the package. 
Probably the most important area which will be assisted by tax indexation is that of the stability of this economy of ours. Honourable senators opposite have contended that probably this effect of rising income tax is deflationary. I do not know whether they want to see this system introduced. But it is interesting to see that it was stated in the Mathews report that in times of high unemployment and depressed demand rising taxation can promote a type of cost inflation spiral over and above demand inflationary spirals. I think that we have seen a classic example of that in the situation that has applied since 1973 when wages really took off in this country. We have seen also examples of unions retaliating against unindexed taxation increases and applying their weight towards the implementation of tax indexation. In fact, it was made clear in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's statement in April 1975 that the Commission supported the introduction of this scheme. 
Another thing that probably is highly significant in the context of inflation is that taxation receipts will be spent by the Government, thereby increasing the marginal propensity of the Government to spend that money and, coming back to the old argument that we have often heard, thereby crowding out private sector expenditure and lowering the propensity of private people to spend. Therefore, without the introduction of this procedure and this new practice we can see that the economy would be slower to recover because the Government would be taking a larger share of the total cake. Quite clearly then tax indexation is a measure aimed at producing the results which we are all looking for- an improvement in the level of consumer demand in this country, leading to investment recovery which is around the corner as a result of other measures which the Government has taken, particularly in respect of the investment allowance. 
We all know that tax indexation is not perfect. The system does have built into it a means of fiscal drag. That is, some 12 months or so passes before the application of the adjustment at the end of each financial year. That means, of course, that people have enjoyed wage increases and suffered tax increases during that 12-month period and have had no adjustment for it. We know that but, as was spelt out in the Mathews report, any other system that was adjusted, say, on a monthly or quarterly basis has significant difficulties administratively. Probably it would introduce other costs into the system which would make it extremely dificult to implement and, indeed, would outweigh the benefits we would be getting otherwise. 
There is only one other matter that I should like to mention and that is in regard to some of the expenditure outlined in the statement that is on the credit side. I am referring particularly to education. We have seen that in 1977 universities will get a 2 per cent increase in their budget on a real basis, as well as an additional $2m for capital expenditure. Colleges of advanced education will receive an additional 5 per cent, technical and further education institutions an additional 7 per cent, and schools another 2 per cent on a real basis. I think it is very sensible also for the Government to be diverting money to vocational areas of employment as we are critically lacking in skilled labour in the community. I think that this will be tremendously important as the economy picks up in the coming months when more skilled workers will be required for the years ahead. 
We know that a change in educational preference has occurred over the last few years, when more emphasis has been placed upon education towards bachelors of arts degrees and other such degrees than has been placed upon providing plumbers, electricians, carpenters and so on, who are now in short supply. This reflects a waste of resources which we hope will be counteracted as the economy picks up. I should like to conclude by congratulating the Government on its measures. I indicate quite clearly that I am fully behind its undertakings as set out in these proposals and I support the Bills which are before the Senate. 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, relates to the proposed royal visit to Australia in 1977. Can he say whether the Queen's itinerary is known to the Government? If so, can he say whether the South Australian Government has extended an invitation to the Queen to visit that State and whether she has expressed a wish to visit? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is an office of the Purchasing Commission currently operating within the jurisdiction of the Department of Administrative Services? If so, can the Minister say how many employees are involved and what instructions have been issued to other departments and statutory authorities requiring them to direct their purchases through it? 
I should like, firstly, to make a few comments about various aspects of the Bills, taking them not necessarily in the same order that  Senator Wriedt  did during his speech. First of all,  Senator Wriedt  discussed the question of wine makers. This is one of the key elements of the amendment which he has just moved. It refers to inadequate alterations having been made to wine makers' tax liability. The point about this matter is that had there been no amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act in 1973 to remove section 31a there would not have been the necessity to face up to the position now where we have to establish a transitional situation to help wine makers out of their difficulties. During the State election campaign in South Australia in July last year- a very opportune time-  Mr Whitlam  made statements to the effect that the Labor Government would alleviate the pressure on wine makers who were affected by section 31a and the decision to remove it. He said that the Government would increase the period during which tax would be payable, as a result of the removal of section 31a, from 5 years to 7 years. He also stated that there would be a maximum liability falling due under that proposal of 15 per cent in addition to tax payable otherwise. That was  Mr Whitlam  's proposal. 
The Government's proposal goes a lot further than that. We have put down an adjustment to the tax liability for wine makers over an 8 year period with a maximum liability in any one year of 10 per cent of the tax increase. This means, of course, that the payments for the liability for tax could extend far beyond the 10-year period. In addition, there has been a major adjustment in the removal of the effect of Division 7 taxation on the extra tax that would be payable. Also, a deduction will be allowable for any additional tax payable due to the removal of section 3 1a. So we have a very generous proposal laid down in this Bill. The proposal varies significantly from the proposal laid down by  Mr Whitlam  at a most politically opportune time last year prior to the State election in South Australia.  Senator Wriedt  went on to say that the former Government did not have enough time last year to introduce those proposals. In fact, the Labor Government was in office for at least 5 months last year after  Mr Whitlam  announced his proposals.  Mr Whitlam  stated in July that he would introduce measures to that effect, well ahead of the Budget that was brought down in late August. There was no move at all by the Labor Government to effect a transitional adjustment so as to give some relief to winemakers as a result of a deliberate policy decision taken by the Labor Party in 1973. 
The point that  Senator Wriedt  missed entirely is that included in the statement from the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  is an undertaking to investigate the effects of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation, as they would affect wine makers. Stocks are increasing in value and, consequently, tax which should not otherwise be paid is being paid on an adjustment amount. The Mathews Committee recommendations cut across that.  Senator Wriedt  did not note that point which was made by  Mr Lynch  in his statement. However, some difficulties and some anomalies arise from this proposal. Chiefly, they affect unincorporated wine growers. A company which is making wine, which is covered by the removal of the effects of Division 7, and which is looked after to the extent that it is allowed to make extended payments, will face a maximum tax payment of 52.5 per cent. However, the unincorporated or private wine maker trading as a sole operator or in partnership will find himself taxed at a rate higher than 52.5 per cent. Submissions on these matters have been made to the Treasurer, and they refer to questions which I hope will receive favourable consideration. These small wine growers, who produce perhaps 2 per cent of the total tonnage of grapes handled, constitute a special sector of the wine industry inasmuch as they produce a special varietal wine rather than the bulk wines which are now being distributed more and more by the big co-operatives and private wine makers. 
I pass now to the phoney argument that  Senator Wriedt  continued to advance tonight concerning whether we are having a consumer led or an investment led recovery. The fact is, as is fully realised by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, that we must have a period when we get the economy moving at the retail level, at the consumer level, in order to provide the impetus for investment. That goes without saying. Honourable senators opposite make a great song and dance about the fact that we appear to be hooked up on some sort of premise that we are interested only in an investment led recovery. The truth of the matter is that we need an investment led recovery to restore the growth in the economy that has been destroyed over the last 3 years. As we all know, the share of the gross national product which is going to profits has declined from 16 per cent in 1972-73 to around 10 per cent in 1974-75. The whole object of the exercise of providing incentives for businessmen is to get those profits up. That can be done only through increasing sales in the consumer area. This will allow businessmen to be able to absorb costs and then to use up the capacity which is obviously slack at the moment as a result of previous policies. They will then be in a position to spend money on future investment. That investment allowance, which will amount to $500m and which is the subject of this Bill, will not be spent by the Government this year or next year. The rate of 40 per cent will be spread into 1978 and then 20 per cent through to 1984. Considerable lead time is involved in the major projects which we hope business will undertake. It is that which will generate the full roaring growth which we hope to see in the economy in years to come. 
Of course, we need to develop the consumerled recovery now, and we are seeing the results of the Government's policies already with rising retail sales, increased production figures in the last few months and further developments taking place in the investment area as well, even at this early stage. One special feature of the investment allowance is its application for the first time to equipment that is subject to lease agreements. The Bill contains an arrangement which provides that lessors and lessees can agree between themselves as to how the benefit is to be claimed. However, there is provision that the lessor may retain the benefit of the investment allowance but pass on that benefit to the lessee by way of lower rental payments if that is an arrangement that suits all parties. I can imagine situations in which that could occur. For instance, a lessee in the early days of his business career may not have profits sufficient to pay for equipment and receive any real tax advantage from this sort of benefit. Also he may have carried forward losses which mean that he cannot gain any tax benefit from an investment allowance. Consequently, this is a far more realistic way of approaching that problem. 
There is one other matter that I would like to mention, namely, the quarterly tax payments by companies which are removed by one of the Bills. In 1973 the Labor Government, in one of its most ham-fisted moves, introduced a system of quarterly tax payments without any notice, requiring businesses to meet payments amounting to one-quarter of their liability, as I remember it, in November of that year, within the short space of about 2 months. At the time this threw the business community in chaos. Naturally, businessmen had been planning on later cash flow requirements. Of course, it is now necessary to remove that provision, although it has been removed temporarily by administrative action in the last few months. 
On the whole, I find that the remarks of Opposition senators in respect of the economy continue to be damaging, irresponsible and without real appreciation of the serious problems which the economy has faced and from which it is in the process of emerging delicately. We have heard the sorts of remarks that are tossed around in an attempt to mislead people as to the effects of the Government's federalism policy. For instance, we have just heard from  Senator Wriedt  on the effects of imaginary impositions of indirect taxes at State and local government levels, and at the Federal Government level as well. Those remarks were made in an entirely destructive manner rather than a constructive way. Obviously they will only undermine confidence at the very delicate stage of recovery which we are in at the present time. I am disappointed to hear the remarks of Opposition senators. I hope that they see their way clear to think through some of their own problems and to come up with some more constructive remarks about the future development of our economy. 
There is one other matter which I would like to mention quickly before I finish my remarks. I refer to the effect of the removal of the home mortgage interest deduction. I was one of those lucky people who last year obtained a deduction for interest paid. It amounted to a considerable sum of money- something like $1,300- which I was entitled to deduct from my income for the 1974-75 year. That resulted purely from a technical situation, as my income was affected by certain transactions involving capital in that year. Although I had owned a house for something like 12 years and although I really had no need for that deduction, I was entitled to it. I know that other people were in the same position. People who did not necessarily need that sort of advantage were taking advantage of it against the interests of the very people whom I believe it was designed to assist in the first place. The Government has paid attention to this sort of problem and is aiming to give the benefit to those who are in the most need. It is to people who are in the first years of buying their first home and who need that assistance at the time that this adjustment to the Act is of the greatest importance. It will allow an application of resources in that direction. The assistance will not be wasted on people who do not really need it. I support the various Bills and commend them to the Senate. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Is the Minister aware of reports that the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Neville  Wran, intends to impose a tax on insurance premiums? Was this stated as Australian Labor Party policy before the New South Wales election? Will it not represent a serious disincentive to small investors whose confidence is vital to the development of the emerging economic recovery? Is not such a proposal a device to avoid coming to terms with the Federal Government's new federalism policy, against which  Mr Wran  conducted such a virulent campaign prior to the New South Wales election? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the claim of the Leader of the Opposition that funds for sporting projects in South Australia will be cut off even where enforceable contracts have been completed and work has been commenced? Can the Minister say whether these reports are accurate, in the light of  Senator Greenwood's  letter in April to the State Minister responsible to the effect that all obligations on the Federal Government in respect of projects in course would be honoured? 
I congratulate the Government on introducing this measure as rapidly as it has since coming to office on 1 3 December of last year. It is clear to me that in going ahead in the way in which it has since it came to office the Government is fulfilling the promises that it made to the people. This Bill relates to one of the clearest promises that it made. I would like to declare an interest in this matter. I was once a member of the Bank Officials Association, which therefore makes me a trade unionist of some experience. I was a member of it in Western Australia. 

 Senator Donald Cameron adverted to several matters that are of fairly great importance in the current economic scene in which we are involved but he seemed to think that they are of no great importance. He has disregarded entirely the fact that the wage inflation this year is the key problem that we are all facing in the community today. He seems to think that that is purely and simply a matter of dispute between the 2 sides to a particular argument. He has disregarded entirely the responsibility of both sides in that dispute about wages to the community in general. That is the key problem that we are facing at the present time. 
The key element of the Bill is set out in clause 13, which is the provision concerning secret postal ballots in respect of the direct voting system. It will be recalled, of course, that one of the key elements of that clause is sub-clause (3), which exempts any organisation from the application of that particular rule in certain circumstances. That seems to me to be completely reasonable and totally fair in the present situation. Obviously the union ballots is related to the question of democracy in unions.  Senator Donald  Cameron would know a lot about this matter because it is constantly raised by the State Government in South Australia. We are seeking to establish the individual rights of the trade union member, and to give him the right to express himself clearly at every opportunity.  Senator Donald  Cameron also would remember a vote that was taken outside the secret ballot system at the factory of Chrysler Australia Limited last year. A vote was taken on the 35-hour working week and it was lost. So people are prepared to stand up for their values and their interests in a situation like that. We are seeking to guarantee that right to trade union members of they wish to exercise it. 
When one considers the tremendous costs involved in union elections, it seems to me to be quite incomprehensible that the unions should be disagreeing with our proposal. I think that  Senator Donald  Cameron referred to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. I am led to believe that if the AMWU were to run an election and pay for the election itself it would cost approximately $ 1 50,000. 
-That is an important point to consider when we are seeking to guarantee the rights of people. I am particularly interested in the point raised by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech with regard to the collegiate system. This is a matter on which I have received several representations. I am coming to the view, albeit gradually, that this system presents great benefits for the individual member of a trade union. I am not speaking on this matter with the experience that other people have, and I will be looking with great interest to the discussions on this matter that will take place between the unions and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in the next few months before 13 November. 
It seems to me that the introduction of any method by which machine politics can be kept out of trade union affairs must be to the advantage of the individual members of unions, and if that is what we are seeking I would be in favour of it. In regard to the collegiate system I make the general observation that it seems to me only reasonable that in order properly to obtain democracy in unions there should be only one tier between the individual member of a union and the final election to Federal leadership. 
I do not want to speak at length about any of these points. From information that has come to me I believe that by a pretty clear majority the public has indicated that it is totally on side with our point of view. Also I believe that the members of the public are demanding in their own interests and in the interests of individual members of trade unions that we should have a situation where the Government can intervene in proceedings before the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and ask the Full Bench to take the question of public interest into account in making its decision. I believe that this provision is particularly relevant. We have seen the leapfrogging which has taken place in past years. A single judge of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission can give a decision in a case involving lower levels of tribunals and this question can then flow on to other levels without the national interest being taken into account. As honourable senators know, the Bill also provides that the national interest will cover the question of employment of unionists as well as the question of inflation, which is the fundamental problem which we all face. 
Bearing in mind that 40 per cent to 50 per cent of trade unionists are breadwinners in any family, it seems to me that this legislation is in the interests not only of the nation but also of the individual unionists. I regard the Bill as being quite reasonable. The decisions that we make tonight will be fundamental to the obtaining of a social compact in Australia and to the establishment of a system whereby these things can be worked out with proper discussions within the trade union movement and with the trade union movement, the Government and the employers all consulting together. I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the staff employed in the Air Transport Group of the Department of Transport. 
What was the total cost of wages and salaries paid to the employees, set out in the 12th Annual Report of the former Department of Civil Aviation: (a) in the break down of staff employed on page 77; and (b) in the Departmental Organisation- Chart on page 90. 
I present the following petition from 161 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth; 
The purpose of this petition is to bring to your notice the mounting financial burden being thrust upon patients and or relatives of Nursing Home Patients. ' 
Fee levels are controlled by the Government but increases in Government subsidies have not been sufficient to cover the spiralling fees in Nursing Homes '. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament Assembled should, 'take immediate steps to apply a major increase in patient subsidies' and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, follows the questions asked by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Jessop  regarding the shipbuilding industry. Has the Minister consulted with State governments, particularly the South Australian Government, in connection with rebates of payroll tax or other taxation incentives to shipbuilders? In view of the substantial subsidy of almost Sim to Whyalla that this would represent and the oft proclaimed rainy day Budget surplus of the South Australian Government, will the Minister take up this matter with the Dunstan Government and other Premiers and seek action? 
I start by saying how upset I am at the lack of fire in this debate today. This is my first debate on a matter of public importance since becoming a member of the Senate and I am surprised that the sense of urgency from the Opposition benches is about the same as at a 19th century garden party. The attack against the Government in this attempt to bring home some of the real issues of the day is almost pathetic. Honourable senators opposite talked about unemployment in terms of numbers but forgot about the people involved in it. They forget about the very real possibility that rising cost levels in this country will lead to greater unemployment unless cost increases are curbed and brought back to realistic levels. Until this country can again afford to export its goods and protect its industries against imports, which are challenging the very industrial base of the country and have done since Labor came to power in December 1972, we will not be able to resolve the unemployment problem. It is that which the Government is attacking. It is that which is the core of the Budget and it is something which the Opposition appears totally unable to comprehend. 
It talks about a deficit as though it is some sort of major contribution to the welfare of the people. It has not yet realised that it has to be paid for. It has to be paid for by the people. It has to be paid for by you and me. This is not just idle talk because if we look at the comments of such organisations as the Chambers of Commerce we find that there is a direct relationship between the outlook of businessmen- we are talking about business confidence here tonight- and the way in which unemployment can be cured. I refer honourable senators to  Canberra Comments  which would have come to every senator in the last day or so. I was interested to read under the heading 'Statistical Results' that since June 1975, compared with the September quarter of 1976, the number of people who were saying that they expected costs to go higher had dropped from 88 to 73. The correlation is quite clear. On employment, 55 people regarded the employment situation in their businesses as being unchanged in the June quarter of 1975. However, by the September quarter of 1976 that number had risen to 74, clearly showing that businessmen had reached the position of understanding that costs are in direct relation to the job opportunities which they are able to provide. That is the core of the Government's problem and the core of Australia's problem and it is obviously something that the Opposition cannot realise and seems unable to grasp. 
Some further evidence that has come to hand in the last hour I found as I was opening my mail in my office. It is a statement from the Australian Development Association pointing out that costs are the number one issue in economic recovery. Let us look at some other evidence. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd produces a well respected journal. 
-That journal has been presenting economic indicators for the last 25 years. If I can read some of it, senator, perhaps it might sink through. The ANZ Bank, in the last indicator in August 1 976 said:  . . given Australia's continuing high rate of inflation, there can be little doubt that a direct stimulus by way of increasing government spending, whether financed by borrowing from the public or the Reserve Bank, is an oversimplistic approach. 
-The bank continued and said: 
Moreover, given the low level of real investment in maintaining productive capacity in recent years, such measures would prove self-defeating. 
I hope  Senator Bishop  took note of that point because it answers very clearly his question concerning demand. The article continued: 
Even assuming a revival of consumer confidence, they would, at best, add more to monetary demand than to real output, thereby aggravating inflation and compounding the difficulty of achieving sustained real growth in private capital formation. 
That is the core of the problem. How we come to it is also pointed out in this article. No doubt Opposition members have not read it. The article points out that there should be tax cuts. It says that the Government should be expected to reduce the tax burden to achieve both reduction of costs, including moderation of wage demands via indexation. What has the Government done? It has introduced a valuation stock adjustment system which is aimed at the core of the problem of inflation and taxation of stocks. This will answer very clearly the problems that have been loaded onto retailers and wholesalers in the last 3 years. The investment allowance was brought in by this Government to achieve a similar result in respect of manufacturers. The ANZ Bank also pointed out that it would be common and, indeed, important that a domestic deficit should be around $2, 500m. In fact the Government has budgeted for a $2,608m deficit which is in easy range of that figure. Let us also consider what the ANZ Bank said about cuts in spending. As  Senator Bishop  pointed out from the Opposition side, that is the key to the growth in demand which is going to get us out of the rut which we are in. The bank said: 
Indeed, the optimum level of the deficit is closely related to the other fiscal measures in the Budget and also to the country's response to them. For example, the more success attends a policy of reducing taxes aimed to stimulate activity, the greater the deficit could be in 1 976-77, without aggravating inflation. 
The bank went on to say: 
The single most important measure of economic success will be the trend of inflation. 
That is the overriding consideration in this respect. So the matter of demand which  Senator Bishop  mentioned does not enter into the question. What has happened in the field of capital expenditure since this Government came to power? The fact is that in the March quarter, the first quarter under this Liberal Government, fixed capital expenditure was of the order of $1,1 87m. For the June quarter it was of the order of $ 1,524m, an increase of 28 per cent. The Senate will recall that the investment allowance was brought in on 1 January 1976. It is said that our policies are not working. Of course they are working and they are producing the result we want- the stimulation of job opportunities. On top of that, while there has been some apparent decline in public service jobs, and we hear this quite often from the Opposition, the fact is that private employment has increased by about 40 000 employees since this Government came to power. This again signifies that our policies are working. 
I quickly remind the Senate that it is the cost pressures- not only as regards our exports but also the buying of imported goods rather than Australian-made goods, which creates jobs, which is leading to our downfall. I quote as an example a major company in Australia which has analysed a major investment in this country ofthe order of $200m to $300m and which has found that it is about 25 per cent cheaper to build a plant on the west coast of the United States of America. This is a positive example of the sorts of things we have been doing to our economy in the last 3 years. 
The major question that has been raised is that of unemployment and the difficulties are well acknowledged. The answer is that we should try to stimulate investment as we have done since we came to power. We are continuing to do this through this Budget. Returning to  Senator Bishop's  interjection, in a year in which the Labor Government was in power, 1973-74, we found that Government spending increased by 46 per cent while unemployment trebled. So where is his argument? How are we to solve the problem by spending more and creating a growing deficit? 
The final point I want to make relates to what has occurred in the business community since the Budget. This clearly indicates the trend and the confidence which the Budget is developing in the community. I refer first of all to the result of trading on the stock exchange today. I think  Senator Cotton  referred earlier to the fact that the shares of Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd, the leading company in Australia, leapt considerably following heavy turnover today. Obviously this is the result of the impetus given to people to invest in Australia. Peope are investing in Australia's leading companies. This was not an isolated example. The shares of companies such as the Australian Consolidated Industries Limited rose very much in today's trading, and of course the mining companies also did well. To my mind this illustrates the confidence which Australians now seem to have. They are determined to press on and to ensure that the recovery we have all been looking for is going to develop. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister , for Environment, Housing and Community Development: What has been the effect on land prices of the provision of Commonwealth funds to the South Australian Land Commission? Is it a fact that the cost of land to home builders in South Australia has continued to rise at a rate which is much the same as for comparable blocks of land in States where no land commission is in operation? Is the Government re-examining a system of funding land development through land commissions to determine whether their operations are effective? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Australian Housing Corporation still in existence? Is it the intention of the Government to retain the Corporation? 
I just want to bring to the attention of the Senate tonight the apparent changes in attitude in the Federal Opposition in relation to economic matters. There have been some very significant changes since it was in office last year. I am sorry that  Senator Bishop  from South Australia is not present in the Senate because he made a good deal of the problems in the shipbuilding industry, particularly in Whyalla. No one will regret the problems that we have there more than I and my colleagues from this side of the chamber. The facts are that Australia is suffering from wage inflation which is the basic cause of import competition which we are facing in every area of our economy. It is costing jobs all over the place and most of all, it is a reflection of the difficulties in Whyalla enhanced in particular by the problems of union unrest and so on. 
When we look at the cost of wages in Australia without considering what is known as the social wage- and I have seen a graph on this matter- it is pretty clear that in 1972 the Australian wage on a weekly basis and adjusted for currency differences and so on works out at something of the order of $3 or $4 a week below the United States wage. That was the position in 1972. Today the Australian wage adjusted on the same scale is running at the order of $30 ahead of the United States wage. That is the basic cost that is afflicting industry in Australia. It is reflected in the white goods industry in South Australia where no longer white goods are manufactured solely in that State. A lot of parts, if not complete machines, are imported from other countries, particularly Japan, hence ruining job opportunities for Australians. The point of the whole issue, of course, is that, though we are talking about unemployment today, if the fundamental problem is not corrected future unemployment will be absolutely enormous and it is that which the 
Government has set about to correct in this Budget. 
Turning back to the shipbuilding industry for a moment, I would like to quote from the speech made by the fearless Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the House of Representatives last night, if one can term it a speech. He observed in connection with shipbuilding along the same lines I have been referring to and he said: 
Our future does not lie in protecting weak industries with higher tariffs, but encouraging industries for which there are continuing markets. 
He went on to say in that speech: 
Rather than blame the rest of the world for our problems, Australia must ensure that the resources worth developing and the industries worth keeping, the ones most likely to give secure employment and continuing prosperity to our people, are built up and strengthened. 
It seems as though that is something of a death bed repentence. I hope  Senator Bishop  gets the opportunity to read  Mr Whitlam  's speech tomorrow or at some other time because it does seem as though he is at odds with  Mr Whitlam  in that matter. He apparently believes that it is an important matter to prop up the shipbuilding industry although there is already a subsidy of the order of $9,000 per job in the shipyard and to keep it in business that subsidy would have to rise to the order of $13,000 per man. He thinks that more will have to be poured on to the fire in order to keep that business going. If an industry finds itself to be inefficient it must readjust and restructure itself in line with current economic trends. The problem with shipbuilding of course is not just inasmuch as it affects jobs in Australia but the increased and the very expensive cost of building ships in Australia is reflected in our economic returns from exports and that reflects on us all indirectly. 
Again  Mr Whitiam  in his usual way turned backward last night and apparently again was repenting on his death bed, but I noticed the editorial in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  which I was pleased to hear  Senator Coleman  reflect upon as being a significant paper in Australia and which indeed contributed greatly to the success of the Labor Party coming to office in 1 972. The editorial states: 

 Mr Whitlam 's speech is, in many respects, a disturbing one, since it seems to show a backsliding into the kind of grandiloquent rhetoric, extravagant promises and business bashing which combined to bring his government unstuck in economic matters. 
It goes on to say: 
It is true, of course, that the Labor Government did not create on its own the problems of inflation and unemployment. But by many of its public statements, by its kangaroo jumps in policy and, above all, by its spending, it did greatly exacerbate them. 
We are at the central issue again as being the second major objective of this Budget and that is the restraint on Government spending. The whole point about Government spending must be that since there is a finite amount of money available priorities have to be established in their proper order. Consequently we see that the Government has approached this in a meaningful way. We have seen it in the area of education where there have been real increases in expenditure for this year. We have also seen it in the area of health. These areas are probably the most important and the ones which are regarded as of the greatest concern by this Government. The point is that if we are to cure the fundamental problems of equality in Australia we need to make sure we get our priorities in order so as to get to the basis of them. 
I would like to move on to the third main area and it revolves around the Government's tax reductions. A deal has been made today of the fact that tax indexation is going to bring about increased revenue to the Government. The point has been made by Opposition senators that income tax will increase by 1 8 per cent this year. The total collections budgeted for are of the order of $11.3 billion, compared with $9.26 billion last year. The increase is $2.4 billion. Because of the adjustments in the concessional rebates, amounting to $0.54 billion, and the collection of the Medibank levy of $0.25 billion as from 1 October, the income tax increase will be of the order of $1.25 billion. This represents an increase of about 13.5 per cent on the collections last year. In the Budget Papers it is estimated that the inflation rate will be in the order of 12 per cent. The Government hopes that it will not be as high as that; that is its conservative estimate. Productivity and increases in the work force will account for about 2 per cent also. So there is a spot-on correlation between the increase in income tax and the increase in collections arising from inflation and so on. This only goes to prove the success of the tax indexation package brought in on 1 July. 
There are other things which are of the greatest concern to small businesses and which certainly will help them in the recovery which is now emerging. Having regard to the financial stringency of the times, the implementation of the far-reaching reforms in the calculation of taxable incomes is courageous, far-sighted and extremely necessary. The allowance as a tax reduction of at least 50 per cent and possibly more of the stock valuation adjustment represents a partial implementation of the Mathews Committee recommendations. This will go a long way to redressing the injustice of taxing artificial profits arising from inflation in unit values of stocks. I doubt that Opposition senators have appreciated that it is an artificial profit. This will be of great interest to retailers and wholesalers who so far have not gained as much as manufacturers from the investment allowance. This will significantly relieve the situation of South Australians engaged in the wine industry which the Labor Government helped to destroy when it repealed section 3 1a of the Income Tax Act. The increase in the retention allowance for private companies from 50 per cent to 60 per cent will provide increased liquidity. Whilst I would have liked to see it go a little higher, it is an important contribution. Recognising the stringency of Government finances, it is a courageous move. In a full year those 2 measures will inject in the order of $380m, and possibly a lot more, into mainly small businesses, based on figures for 1975-76. The actual benefit will not be until 1 977-78. 
The introduction of the scheme of income equalisation deposits for fluctuating rural incomes will be very significant for small rural properties as well. In this way 'one time' fortuitous incomes in good times will be safeguarded from the ravages of the highest marginal rates of income tax. The provision of a deduction of $50,000 against the value of an estate passing to a surviving spouse will help to ameliorate the impact of estate duty on a share in a small part.neship or company. In the past this duty has made a significant contribution to the liquidity shortage of small family businesses where one or other of the partners or shareholders dies. This provision will have the effect of exempting estates of up to $90,000. The figure is $98,000 in the case of farmers. 
I turn now to some of the real reforms contained in the Budget. I would like to refer to, amongst other things, the housing voucher experiment. In the Budget $75,000 is allotted for an examination of the establishment of a scheme which would provide a voucher system for individual low income families so that they can search out their own housing, the housing which suits them best, rather than be forced by State government authorities and other authorities to accept housing which is not in their best interests. It is based on the concept of freedom of choice which this Government firmly supports and is a flexible way of approaching the whole problem. Rather than putting more and more reliance on government, this scheme embraces the real private enterprise approach of being organised in order to attract further investment into rental accommodation from the private sector. That is the core of the solution to the problem of housing and ensuring that people have proper opportunities to look after themselves. 
-Yes, $75,000 is set aside to establish a pilot study. The family allowances scheme, which has been well canvassed since 20 May, will bring benefit to 300 000 low income families. 
The other main area on which I would like to concentrate tonight is foreign aid. In the Budget the Government is providing $398m for overseas aid. That figure is 14.6 per cent up on the 1975-76 allocation and represents an increase in real terms. Considering the magnitude of the problems of lesser developed countries, this is a most commendable move. It is a step in the right direction in order to try to reduce that horrific gap between rich and poor countries. However, because of the terrific size of that gap, we should be concentrating on other ways of helping lesser developed countries, ways which will yield maximum effectiveness and maximum efficiency. The emphasis should be on trying to help them help themselves. That is why I believe that we should be concentrating more on trade than on direct aid. With direct aid there is no multiplier effect and, the yield per unit cost is far less. Trade is essential as it provides lesser developed countries with foreign exchange which in turn enables them to purchase technology, equipment, plant and capital assets. Import substitution is not the answer, as has been proved lately in many countries, and it is not the best path to industrialisation. Trade is vital in order to encourage countries to develop their own resources, the resources which are most economically viable in their own circumstances. 
In regard to the foreign exchange constraint, it should be noted that although certain Asian countries have the potential to expand traditional non-manufactured exports the overall picture appears to be one of limited growth, partly due to the effect of population pressure on land but also due to limitations on the growth of such traditional exports as they know. Without trade the lesser developed countries do not have the foreign exchange to buy goods, but more importantly they do not have the cash at home to pay for goods which they import. Because of the generation of employment opportunities- this being essential for the emergence of a sound industrial base in lesser developed countriesimport substitution increasingly will decline as an issue in those countries. Trade improves the balance of payments. Therefore we have to find a way to ensure that there is an opportunity for lesser developed countries to trade with us. In this country we have specific trade preferences for particular countries. In order to emphasise that point I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which points out the differences in the tariff rates between Australia and the rest of the world on industrial products, raw materials and semi-finished manufactures. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to this morning's  Australian Financial Review  report of a statement by  Mr Hayden,  the shadow shadow Treasurer, indicating a devaluation of the Australian currency? Can the Minister say whether this action is contemplated by the Government or is it another example of mischievous rumour mongering emanating from Opposition spokesmen? 
I  present the following petition from 300 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Ethnic Radio Hour in N.S.W. broadcast in Croatian is controlled and run by members of the Yugoslav community and that the Australian-Croatian ethnic community is given no say. 
That Australian passports have been denied to some Australian citizens of Croatian origin without explanation or possibility of appeal. 
That discrimination has been exercised in the granting of citizenship privileges to migrants of Croatian origin. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Parliament in the negation and non-recognition of Croatian nationality. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Government in Ethnic Schools and University courses when it permits only the teaching of Serbo-Croat and not of the Croatian language as an alternative. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will consider these facts in the light of justice toward a people who came as strangers to this land, and that appropriate action will be taken to remedy the present situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-My question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an advertisement in this week's  National Times  by persons claiming that the appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland as  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is political in nature, based on allegations that he has affiliations with the Liberal Party? Is the Minister able to state whether this claim is true? 
If not, will he request his colleague to make a clear statement to that effect? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: Do the Budgets of the States of Victoria and South Australia presented this week accord with the Federal Government's economic strategy? 
I present the following petition from 41 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in Australia: 
Aware that the Federal Government's Budget for 1976-77 does not include measures to restore full employment in the building and construction industry; 
Alarmed at the fact that unemployment is at the highest level in New South Wales and Queensland since the depression years, with clear indications that the position will further deteriorate; 
Aware that at the same time more and more people are being denied proper housing and other building needs of great social importance are not being carried out; 
Aware that the apprenticeship system is being seriously threatened and many apprentices are unable to complete their apprenticeship. This along with the fact that thousands of tradesmen have been driven out of the industry, will, in years to come create a chronic shortage of skilled workers to the detriment of the community and with enormous adverse economic repercussions. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly: 
Government construction of homes, schools, hospitals and public works development projects, employment and training of unemployed young people, restoration of finance cuts in sewerage and urban development work, provide finance to land commission to provide cheaper land for home building, provide low interest home loans finance. 
We request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen Press reports of the planned order of 3 container ships by the Australian National Line from Kawasaki of Japan? Is it not a fact that Australian shipbuilders had been invited to tender for delivery but are unable to do so because they cannot guarantee delivery times? Is this not continuing evidence of the effects of industrial disputes on the performance of Australian industry which seriously inhibit its ability to compete with overseas operators? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of reports that many young couples in Adelaide will be deprived of grants under the home savings grant scheme because the average cost of building a home is $23,300, whereas the limit for eligibility under the scheme is $22,500? Will the Minister refer this matter to his colleague for investigation to determine whether these effects will be widespread and whether some action can be taken to alleviate the problem? 
1 refer, firstly, to some of the points that  Senator Wriedt  made, particularly the one concerning devaluation. I was rather surprised to hear it come from his lips. I think I have him right. He was indicating that there may be a devaluation next year. In the light of the heap of scorn that has been poured on  Mr Hayden  's remarks on this matter in the last week or so, I was greatly amazed to hear that statement come from the Leader of the Opposition in this place. I will examine some of the questions behind the matter of devaluation. 
I think  Senator Wreidt  was making the point that Australia now is being faced with the long term factors. Those factors stem from rapid cost escalation and the difficulties with which we are faced from import competition, which are challenging our industrial base to such an extent that they could very well cause loss of jobs in the manufacturing sector. That problem cannot be solved by some sort of short term palliative such as devaluation. The core of the problem must be attacked, and that is what this Government is setting about doing in the Budget. 
I come to the particular problems that are raised by inflation and how they have come into being. I do not suppose I need to go over the ground once more to discover that the problems stem from lack of control by the Australian Labor Party when it was in power immediately prior to 13 December last year. The deficit for the last financial year, which amounted to about $3.6 billion, contributed significantly to the rate of inflation in this country by contributing to the rate of growth in the money supply in that financial year. The budgeted deficit this year is about $2.6 billion. However, the domestic deficit, which is the fundamental figure in considering the rate of growth in the internal money supply, will be about $1.9 billion. That compares with $2.9 billion last financial year. The domestic deficit this year will be reduced by $ 1,000m. That will have a significant effect on reducing the growth in the money supply in Australia and on keeping it well within the bounds that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has predicted in the Budget strategy- an increase at the rate of approximately 12 per cent in the forthcoming year. 
The deficit relates fairly and squarely to the question of expansion of the money supply. While some honourable senators opposite have been urging an increase in that deficit and consequently an increase in the money supply to solve the unemployment problem, a look at some of the facts over the last year or two will quickly put paid to that suggestion. In the year ended 30 June 1975 the deficit expanded rapidly to nearly $2.8 billion. Government spending in that year increased by a record 46 per cent. Yet during that year unemployment trebled. In the year ended 30 June 1976 the rate of spending increased by 23 per cent. Yet unemployment was not checked in that financial year. So, where is the ground for the argument in favour of increasing the supply of money by increasing the deficit, thereby creating jobs? The fundamental problem has to be faced. We have to get down the supply of money in order to restrict the rate of inflation so as to protect jobs. The opposite will only destroy them. 

 -Since Senator Georges has intervened let me quote some remarks by  Mr Hayden  in his Budget Speech in 1975 when he made the following point: 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 

 Mr Hayden, who was perhaps the only Australian Labor Party Treasurer who made any impression during Labor's period in office, made those remarks which correspond exactly with the formulas laid down in our Budget strategy.  Senator Wriedt  made another point in regard to the cutting of real wages. If he has regard to page 26 of Budget Statement No. 2 he will see that the Budget is predicated on real wages being retained. The statement reads: 
Real average earnings per employed person would remain approximately unchanged but, due to employment growth, aggregate real earnings would increase moderately. 
That statement derives from the point that there is likely to be an increase in growth this year of the order of 4 per cent. It is that which will tend to reduce unemployment by this year's end. Of course, at that point we are hoping for single digit inflation on an annual basis. 
As I have said before, some of the problems that we see raised before us in regard to the economy generally stem immediately from inflation. The whole question of the Budget deficit as such has not been fully comprehended as being a factor in money supply and the rate of inflation, irrespective of the fact that we saw during Labor's period in office misspent expenditure which led to waste and inefficiency in government finance. I would like to quote just one remark in regard to the question of inflation from the September review of the economy by Syntec Economic Services Pty Ltd, which is perhaps one of the more sophisticated commentators on the economy in Australia and which services businessmen in particular. It had this to say:   . . poor economic government . . . have left Australia with a chronic cost inflation problem. In its bid to return Australia to Western respectability, the Government deserves more support than it is getting from major companies. These companies show poor appreciation of where their long-term interests lie in seeking to dismember the Government's fiscal-monetary-exchange rate package. 
The essence of that statement is that the whole question of money supply is not just tied up with one aspect of the problem but it is related to the size of the Budget deficit, it is related to the supply of money as controlled through the banking system and in particular by the Reserve Bank, and also, and most importantly, to exchange rate policy, in relation to which  Senator Wriedt  has shown himself to be in favour of some form of devaluation. It is that question which businessmen and indeed honourable senators opposite should recognise as being the key factor in determining the level of inflation for this coming year. The whole question relates to all of those factors, not to any one of them. It is the balancing of those 3 factors which will indicate whether we are successful by the time 30 June 1977 comes around. 

 Senator Wriedt took the dogmatic approach that the only way to solve the question of unemployment and to put people back into work is to take up slack in the public sector. He accuses us of having completely the opposite view. He claims that the investment allowance has not been working, yet he gives us no evidence of that at all. In fact there will not be any evidence of that at least until statistics are shown in respect of the year ending 30 June 1976, but even then that will not display much in respect of investment for that year, mainly due to the fact that lean times for businessmen who are investing in new plant and machinery are so significantly long that they will not have shown up significantly in that year. It is in this current financial year that the investment allowance will start to show itself and to provide some clear evidence as to the economic recovery. 
The question of the public sector taking up the slack surely is one that does not need to be answered in the light of the appalling consequences of rapid government expenditure increases over the last few years, followed by a rapid escalation in the size of the deficit. It is that question which we are attacking in the Budget strategy. Some people have seen fit to compare the calculations of the Budget deficit by drawing an analogy with the situation in private industry. A lot of people have said: 'If you are going to spend capital moneys out of revenue receipts, thereby adding to the deficit, those capital payments should be debited to a loan account and treated quite separately. ' That might be neat accounting but it does not even fit general accounting principles because, as we know, depreciation allowances within private enterprise are generally the sources of funds for new capital investment. Undistributed profits in the case of companies are again sources of investment funds. Consequently, even in private enterprise capital expenditure is funded from revenue receipts. 
Bearing that in mind and applying that principle, we have to make the commonsense observation that it is not a matter of whether we have strictly correct accounting in these matters; the whole question is the economic consequences of how the deficit is to be funded, and its general size is taken into account in the Budget. It is the question which we have faced with a will and, bearing in mind the triple factors that I mentioned earlier, the size of monetary inflow from overseas will determine the size of the money supply growth and the overall rate of inflation. This Bill addresses itself to that question. Although the Bill is strictly a matter of accounting, as one will realise from past practice the transfer of the sum of $ 1,600m on the defence loan account is a significant factor when related to the figure of $1,43 5m which is the anticipated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. It is obviously well in line and does not allow for any rapid increase in that deficit. Therefore it will not allow for rapid escalation in the size of the money supply, consequently leading to greater inflation. I support the Bill. 
I refer the Minister for Administrative Services to the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services which contain a provision of $ 1 .687m to compensate local fire brigades for the cost of protecting property owned by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. Have discussions with the States taken place about the distribution of these funds through them to the various brigades? Can the Minister say when support for individual brigades will be announced? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that in many cases where employers have closed shop agreements with trade unions there is no legal requirement that employees be provided with copies of the rules of the trade union when starting work? While I am aware that some unions may object to this on the ground of cost, is it not an infringement of the rights of individual workers that this is not done? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In the light of the decision of the Government to operate ethnic radio stations in Sydney and Melbourne under the auspices of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, can the Minister say what future action is contemplated with regard to the ethnic radio programs being broadcast through station 5UV in Adelaide? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is he aware of the valuable work being undertaken by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in educating training supervisors by utilising the staff and facilities of certain government defence factories at present operating below capacity? Will the 
Minister consider the extension of such coordination to maximise the use of the facilities at the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury in South Australia? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the serious injury suffered by  Senator John  Knight while gallantly defending Parliament, playing rugby against the Australian Broadcasting Commission last Sunday. I ask: Would the ABC entertain a claim for compensation or would this be regarded as evidence of political pressure? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of public concern being expressed at reports that funds for the provision of buses for naval reserve cadet units will soon be reduced? Can the Minister confirm that this action is contemplated? If it is not contemplated, will he urge his colleague to make an early statement to that effect? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations been drawn to a report that the Adelaide Brighton Cement Co. Ltd has applied to the South Australian Industrial Commission for the insertion in its employees' award of a clause requiring a secret ballot before any strike, ban or limitation is decided upon? Is this not a significant attempt to protect the rights of individual workers which, with other matters, could be considered by other employers, particularly those with closed shop arrangements with unions, to ensure that union rules and industrial awards appropriately safeguard their employees? 
It is with the greatest pleasure that I rise- and this pleasure is based mainly on a sense of relief- to speak on the Government's legislation amending Medibank. The tactics employed by the Opposition and their crying over spilt milk are the sorts of things that only engender pity. It is pity because those on the other side have been unable to recognise the truth of the disaster that Medibank would have been had it not been altered. The rapid escalation of costs, the lack of self-discipline inherent in the system and the Opposition's paranoid concern for controlling people, in their health care right down the line- these things are the most evident aspects of that blueprint that Labor drew in May 1974 and which would have wreaked disaster upon this country in the years ahead. 
Fortunately the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 and it has approached the issue from an administrative point of view having due regard to the concerns that are really worrying the people- the cost of their care, their choice and the real interests that they have in choosing their own form of health care. Of course the Government has honoured its election promises and retained the fundamental principle that was set out by the Labor Party and compaigned upon in several elections; that is the universality principle. The system remains compulsory and without any doubt that promise to the Australian people has been honoured. 
There are 4 main thrusts in this legislation. First, the Bills are of a socially reforming nature. For instance, consider the reinsurance pool of $50m. One of the main objections to the previous private health care system was that it possibly did not meet the needs of those with longer term chronic illnesses. This major step that has been introduced in these Bills will help to solve that problem. Under this legislation people who remain in hospital for more than the 35 days limit will be able to draw on this fund, which will be contributed to by the private funds, to the extent of their premiums applying for periods over the 35 days in hospital, and they will have 365-day cover. The pool will meet the costs of their health care for the full year. This differs substantially from the special account system the Labor Party was involved in and which was totally open-ended and maintained no selfdiscipline as regards costs. 
The second main thrust is the establishment of the needs principle and the approach to priorities. Special attention is being paid to low income earners. The introduction of the $135 premium to assist intermediate ward patients through a subsidy of $ 12m to $ 15m will provide them with a choice. It is interesting to note that 30 per cent of pensioners are still insured privately, so even persons on incomes of their level are still interested in choosing the form of health care that they want. The low income earners who are insured for standard hospital cover will be covered under the provisions of these Bills. Those things will bring dignity to the low income earners. This is a major redistribution of wealth in their favour and it is an example of the Fraser Government's approach to social reform. 
The third main thrust is that of choice and the provision of the diversity of services by virtue of these Bills. Before Medibank came in approximately 92 per cent of the people were covered by private funds. Apparently 4 per cent did not wish to be insured and another 4 per cent were obviously in the category of those who could not afford insurance. The universality principle is retained in order to take care of that situation. It has been a major thrust of the Labor Party's arguments in this matter that it is necessary to maintain one standard system in order to provide care universally for all. Yet we find that today even 70 per cent of the people are still carrying private health insurance- 15 months after Medibank came into being. The desire for individual choice is obvious in the Australian community and one which these Bills recognise. The provision of the new Medibank Private insurance cover established in the Bills is obviously based on sound evidence. Published costs indicate that private funds are able to provide a cheaper cover through their insurance method. I suppose that that fact stems from their experience over a long period of time in being able to assess the actuarial circumstances perhaps more carefully than Medibank is able to and while there has been some rumoured use of reserves the fact that there are reserves means that these funds have been so well managed in the past that they have been in order to accumulate those reserves out of profits. Consonant with - 
I come from South Australia. We have the most efficient private health care funds. The Mutual Hospital Association Ltd and the National Health Services Association of South Australia are the most efficient private insurers in Australia. Consonant with the Government's view that competition should in all cases be fair where public enterprise is in direct competition with private enterprise, Medibank Private will of course be contributing to Consolidated Revenue by way of payroll tax, sales tax and stamp duty. This will ensure that there is fair competition between the private funds and Medibank Private. 
I was interested to read what was said when this legislation was discussed in the House of Representatives.  Mr Hayden-we  cannot quite figure out these days whether he is shadowing Defence, Treasury, Health or any other departmentreferred to private hospitals as surgical mills. He referred to them as though they were in a way a sort of parasite on the health system. Obviously private hospitals have a very important part to play in the overall health scheme in Australia. They take the load in respect of specialist cases away from the public system. 
-Which it is unable to handle, as  Senator Baume  points out. It obviously reduces the cost to the public purse.  Mr Hayden  should be condemned absolutely for such an unworthy statement. The whole system as it is now envisaged by providing both for private and public hospitals will make sure that costs are minimised in those areas and that choice and a standard of health care at a maximum level are maintained. 
The fourth main thrust of these Bills- and probably the most important from the administrative standpoint- is the cost control aspect. We were all interested to read about the amendments which will cover pathology fees. This subject has been canvassed earlier by  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Baume.  I am confident these amendments will help to reduce the cost of pathology which obviously has been escalating quite fast. Certainly a number of complaints have come to my ears in respect of this area. 
The identification of the cost via the imposition of the levy will certainly make sure that individual subscribers to the health funds have due regard to the costs which they are incurring in the health area. This, of course, will impose its own system of control on the costs of running the health scheme throughout Australia. We all know, and even  Senator Georges  admitted it tonight, that there are no free lunches- we all have to pay in the end; costs have to be met somewhere, whether by a levy or in some other way. The Medibank amending Bills we are discussing tonight give us the opportunity to make a more equitable distribution of the levy in favour of low income earners. Certainly one of the very few criticisms that I have heard of the Government's activities in this regard has been by people who say that really nowadays they would prefer not to have to pay the levy at all, that they would prefer to insure themselves. Surely this does not indicate that there is a demand for a total system which controls everybody and which imposes an overall cost that is inequitable. I support strongly the Government's stand in maintaining the universality principle, and that is important in keeping the system viable. 
The other area that is very significant in this context is the control that is now being implemented over State expenditures through the amending agreements. Previously costs being paid for by the States were totally open ended and 50 per cent of the operating costs of public hospitals were being met from Commonwealth sources. Costs have risen massively in the health area since 1972. The average wage for a senior sister, for instance, has risen by something like 85 per cent. The salary of a resident medical officer has risen by something like 60 per cent in that time. 
I was quoting figures from my notes, senator. I am not reading my speech. On comparing my own average costs over the year I find that whereas in 1972 I was spending net after tax $200 on health care by way of contribution to a private fund and payments to doctors in hospitals, today the costs have escalated to something like $500. This is an increase of something like 1 50 per cent. It is obviously terribly important, therefore, to ensure that costs are controlled in this area and this is the fourth and possibly most important thrust of this legislation. 
In respect of State agreements, I am particularly interested to see that the Government has inserted an administrative safeguard to ensure that a committee of the States and the Commonwealth draw up budgets ahead of the Federal budgets each year and to ensure that the costs will be agreed upon between the States and the Commonwealth so that they may be well considered as part of the total budget scene for the Federal Government. Obviously this is a more satisfactory arrangement than the open ended one that was previously allowed to occur through the Medibank arrangements. 
I note also that there is a provision in the legislation that the States may impose their own charges on private patients. Of course, it is entirely their decision to do so. In regard to the total cost of health care in 1972, 1 make the point that whereas in that year costs for health care throughout Australia, including medical benefits and hospital benefits, were of the order of $390m, it looks as though for 1976 the total will be nearly $ 1,960m. This is a colossal escalation which the main thrust of this legislation will seek to control. 

 Senator Georges referred to the administrative costs that Medibank incurs. Last year these costs were something like $60m. He related that to the total provision of benefits and stated that Medibank is obviously far more efficient than the private funds. He stated that the administrative costs were some 4 per cent of total benefits whereas previously the administrative costs of the private funds were running at the order of 1 5 per cent. Obviously this is an unreal sort of comparison because we are talking about a completely different sort of scheme. The private health funds were providing benefits for a range of activities whereas Medibank last year was providing one standard benefit. It is obviously an unfair comparison in that context. 
But leaving that aside, it is the question of rapid escalation in the cost of benefits that is the real consideration. When we are talking about a possible increase of the order of 40 per cent in the cost of benefits in the coming year, a rise of something like even $50m in the cost of administration is peanuts compared with a rise of $400m or $500m in the cost of the system itself. 

 - Senator Georges I am referring only to the administrative costs of the system. 
I conclude by referring to a statement by  Dr Catchlove  which appeared in the Minister's second reading speech.  Dr Catchlove,  a member of the Australian Hospitals Association, made this point: 
The Government proposals for reorganising Medibank, have we believe, made the first real attempt to come to grips with the enormous escalation in health costs, while maintaining the principle of universal health insurance. 
This sums up the Fraser Government's approach to the problem. It has instituted administratively sound devices in order to control the escalation in costs while going very deeply into and continuing its social reforming approach to the problems that are apparent among low income earners. The system is eminently workable and, above all, it is providing individual Australian with freedom of choice which appropriately fits the Government's financial objectives. I support the Bill. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to this morning 's report of the projected investment of $600m in a new steel development in Western Australia. Is this not an indication of the growing confidence in the emerging economic recovery being shown by investors and businessmen and which is supported by many other prominent and experienced observers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. In the light of the acceptance by Australia of the 200-mUe or 320- kilometre territorial waters limit, can the Minister indicate whether there is a need for increased onshore research and mapping capacity and a greater provision of oceanographic facilities for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or other agencies within his Department? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to the recent remarks of the South Australian Attorney-General,  Mr Duncan,  to the effect that the delay in hearing maintenance applications in South Australian courts is the fault of the Federal Government because it has not allowed these applications to be heard in the Family Court of Australia. Has  Mr Duncan  raised this matter with the Minister and/or officers of the Family Court? Would not the provision of the facility of the Family Court for these hearings increase the backlog of other divorce matters before that Court? Is this another attempt by the South Australian Government to blame the Federal Government for shortcomings which are in the State 's direct province? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to recent estimates that there are 800 unsold new homes in the Adelaide metropolitan area and to the decision of the State Bank of South Australia not to grant loans to persons earning more than $15 1 a week. As the average wage has now reached $ 1 80 a week, will the Minister use his good offices with the South Australian authorities in connection with the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement to remove this unrealistic constraint? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the recent announcement by the Dunstan Government that a small business unit will soon be formed in South Australia. Will the operation of this unit cut across or will it complement the activities of the office of the National Small Business Bureau in Adelaide? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Foreign Minister. Has the Minister seen a report in this morning's  Age  of a claim by Singapore's Prime Minister, Lee Kuan Yew, that Australia is a breeding ground for Singaporean and Malysian communists due to the activities of Australian Trotskyite groups? Has he also seen reported statements by the  Chairman  of the Adelaide University Students Representative Council and the  Chairman  of the Adelaide University Labor 
Club that the Workers Student Alliance has successfully taken over the Australian Union of Students and is effectively controlling student politics throughout Australia? Since the activities of such radical groups are significantly affecting our relationships with important overseas neighbours, can the Minister indicate whether he will undertake an investigation of the activities of the WSA in recruiting foreign students in Australia to its cause? 
My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer refers to the recent joint announcement by the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Australian Society of Accountants on a form of inflation accounting for adoption in the preparation of the financial statements of businesses. Are the relevant departments undertaking a study of this statement with a view to assessing its affects on commerce generally, and on prices and investor confidence in particular? Will the Minister use his good offices to ensure that the corporate affairs commissions in the various States and Commonwealth territories adopt a common approach to the implementation of these proposals? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to reports that large quantities of hashish are being smuggled into Australia by Australian tourists returning from Bali, who are recruited there by drug traffickers for a fee currently about $2,000. Are these reports accurate? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate whether he considers that the current methods of detection by officers of the Department are adequate? If they are not adequate, can he advise what action will be taken by the Department to arrest this growing trade? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will he provide the names of persons comprising the interdepartmental committee currently reviewing methods of encouraging private sector participation in the arts, particularly through taxation deductions for donations? Can the Minister say when this interdepartmental committee is expected to report to the Government? Is he in a position to divulge the names of corporations involved in a similar study known as the Myer Foundation study? Is it likely that the results of this study will be available to the Government? If so, will they be made public? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the appointment of an Assistant Director for Migrant Services in the Department of Social Security in Adelaide, which was advertised nationally in June. Is the Minister aware that there is considerable concern amongst migrant interest groups in Adelaide that the Telephone Interpreter Service Advisory Committee is not meeting and that they regard the appointment as the key to catalysing its activities? Does the Minister agree that the appointee should have outstanding linguistic and human relations skills? Can the Minister say when an appointment will be announced? Will this officer be responsible to the Assistant Director-General, Migrant Community Services Branch of the Minister 's Department in Canberra, or to the National Groups Unit or some other officer? If he will be responsible to the National Groups Unit, what level of officer will be his immediate superior and what is that person's experience with groups of migrant origin? Does this Unit co-ordinate or liaise with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to a recent statement by eminent Adelaide quantity surveyors and building cost consultants, Messrs Rider Hunt and Partners, that building costs will rise by  2lA  per cent in the present quarter and that they will rise more slowly next year. Is this less than half the cost rises experienced during the Labor Government's period of office? Is this evidence of the success of Federal Government policies in reducing the rate of inflation with the objective that housing will be more readily obtainable for young people? 
The Senate is debating the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. Although it is a matter of the greatest importance, I do not intend to take up very much of the 
Senate 's time in dealing with it. I regard the matter as important because it reaches into the very heart of the affairs of every individual trade unionist. The basis of this Bill is the very question of the human rights of every unionist. Firstly, I should like to refer to one or two points made by  Senator Button.  He referred to collegiate voting as though it were some sort of a sinister scheme that apparently has been thrust on the unions without any concern. He said that there had been very little consultation on the matter, yet I clearly remember that in the Minister's second reading speech on the secret ballots legislation which was introduced in May this year the Minister specifically referred to this matter. Indeed, there was a great deal of debate in this chamber on the very question. I see that  Senator Button  has left the chamber, but I hope that he reads some of the speeches that were made at that time and brings himself up to date on the matter. 
The basis of this legislation hangs on 3 great principles. The first is the common objectives of the worker in achieving his individual welfare, and that, of course, is the fundamental thing that brought persons together in trade unions in the first place. That is an objective which we all on both sides of the chamber will strive to uphold. The second principle is related to that matter and describes the rights and powers of individual unions to pursue their own objectives in their own way; to ascribe their own rules and to pursue them that way. The third principle relates to the freedom of association of individual members of unions and the manner in which they express that freedom as members of unions. The restrictions that can be placed on them through arbitrary means, by the way in which the laws of unions, that is their rules, are interpreted and read at the highest councils in unions, have the greatest effect upon their ability to express themselves and to become objective citizens in a free society to which we as a nation that upholds this sort of a parliament aspire. 
I believe that the rights of the individual worker are absolutely paramount. There are examples today throughout the community where this is not the case. It is a question of whether an individual should submit himself to the machine or describe himself and put forward his own views in the way that he sees best. It is interesting to note that in his speech  Senator Button  referred to  Mr Wran's  comments today that the answer to trade union problems lies in unification and amalgamation. In other words, again the solution to all problems lies in centralisation. 
-Indeed. The problem that we in this nation face is to ensure that the individual worker is given the opportunity to express himself. 
If the honourable senator looks at the rules of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union he will find that they hardly give the individual worker the opportunity to express himself. The approach which the Government has adopted in regard to this legislation is one of total flexibility. This is demonstrated by the Government's approach to the legislation dealing with secret ballots which was introduced earlier this year. Certainly the issue of collegiate voting was raised at that time. In clause 13 (3) of that secret ballots legislation there was reference to the exemption of organisations in particular circumstances. That is a clear example of the approach which the Government adopts in regard to these matters and is at the core of giving rights to individual workers. In that legislation it was provided that individual unions could decide for themselves the system that they would select for the election of office bearers. That is at the core of providing rights for individual workers. It has been followed in this legislation by providing in 3 circumstances for the election of full-time office bearers, a system whereby a union can decide upon a direct vote, or through a one-tier collegiate voting system. An option exists. The Government is flexible in this matter. It has provided that unions should have the right to choose themselves which way they will act. 
Part-time unionists are to be selected in another way at the option of the union, in addition to the 2 other methods. It is provided that there could be a multi-tier collegiate voting system in that circumstance. The final point which seems to me to be of great importance in this legislation, and which of course would lead to greater efficiency in trade union affairs, is that the definition of 'office' has been amended in order to provide for appointment rather than election. I have had a great deal of experience in various organisations where this provision has proved to be of great benefit. I think  Senator Button  made the point that because such an officer would not be submitting himself to election, in some way this would detract from the rights of individuals to get their views across to him. In fact, it is my experience in various organisations that the reverse position applies. An individual who is appointed in that way reacts better and more fluidly to the circumstances around him than do persons who are selected and kept in power by a clique. 
The other point that has been raised concerns the provision that the college can comprise, to the extent of 15 per cent of the total college, persons who have been previously office bearers in the organisation. This I believe to be a very sound principle. I might mention for the benefit of honourable senators that the Liberal Party in South Australia adopted this principle some 3 years ago when amending its constitution, for the very purpose that we are providing it in this legislation today- to provide a more democratic means to let people get on with the job in their organisation without continually having to watch their backs. This is a principle which I believe is worthy of incorporation in this legislation. 
It is not by appointment, it is by election. These people gain their positions by election. In this circumstance they will come up for election at the proper time, and of course they can be removed from office. It is not by appointment at all. I believe that the figure of 15 per cent is quite reasonable and in proper relation to the size of the rest of the college. It is not as though that clique will be able to run the organisation from such a power base. I believe that that sort of consideration is of basic importance in protecting the rights of individual workers. 
I have said as much as I want to say on this subject but I want to reiterate the importance of making sure that this legislation gains proper acceptance in the eyes of the community. I was somewhat distraught after the passing of the legislation which provided for secret ballots that a number of constituents were not aware that this important Bill had been passed. It has taken some three or four months, in South Australia at any rate, to bring that matter to the attention of individuals. I hope that this legislation will have wide promotion by the Government so that people can properly understand its background, what it is designed to do and, I am sure, what it will achieve. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer again to the provision in the Estimates of $ 1.7m for the reimbursement of fire brigades for conserving the safety of Commonwealth property and to the necessary arrangements to be concluded with State governments for the implementation of the program. Can the Minister advise whether any further information as to progress in this matter is available, since it is awaited with great interest by local emergency fire service branches in South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to an article in the  Australian  of 8 November last, headlined: 'The $23m paddock haunting Don Dunstan'. It referred to the outrageously grandiose scheme called Monarto in South Australia, which has already indicated a much reduced population target of 25 000 compared with 200 000. Can the Minister say whether the development of the project would justify the enormous financial and environmental costs when compared with the development of other areas in South Australia which already have sound economic bases, such as Mount Gambier, Millicent, Whyalla and Port Augusta? 
I rise to support the Bill and to reject out of hand the amendment, which is totally unreal in the light of the circumstances, namely that this legislation is aimed at providing the sinews of finance for the most progressive policy in the devolution of power that we have seen since Federation. I have the advantage of having lived in four of the six Australian States at some time in my life and I am completely aware of the diversity of the various parts of this nation which go to make up the cultural whole. Accordingly, I have a great deal of interest in the establishment of a broader philosophy such as the one which we are espousing today and which will develop at the very base roots the most significant policies for the development of local areas, especially local government in developing pride in its own activities. Through the distribution of personal income tax revenue to the States, the States will be encouraged to assist local government in that direction. At the State level in Australia 16.1 per cent of revenue is collected and in America the figure is 16.26 per cent- somewhat the same. At the local government level, the difference is that in Australia 4. 1 per cent only is collected whereas in the United States 13.52 per cent is collected. This shows clearly the centralist tendencies of the Australian federal system as it has developed over the past few years. This legislation is the first major attempt to overcome that. 
There is probably no clearer example of the differences between the 2 sides in this Parliament than the differences on this policy. We have seen that clearly demonstrated in the debate today. One of the most significant features that came in for the most criticism during the period of office of the Whitlam Government was the question of the regionalisation of local government areas. If anything was ever designed to threaten the existence of local councils and local government, it was that policy. The Federal Government attempted to impose control from the top to the very grass roots in such a way as to encourage, or I might say coerce, local councils into joining together in such a way as to take away from each other their interest in particular areas. This has been encouraged particularly too with the intervention of the State Government in my State of South Australia, where this very serious activity has been encouraged by the Premier and his Minister for Local Government,  Mr Virgo. 

 Senator Wriedt mentioned quite often and at great length the South Australian Premier's predilection towards the centralised system and his comments on and criticisms of this legislation. If there is a political pigmy in Australia, it is certainly Don Dunstan. He seeks to hide behind the Federal Government by seeking to ensure that the Federal Government takes all responsibility for raising funds, but he does not have any regard for how they are spent. Certainly it is in his political interest to encourage that sort of activity and involve himself in writing cook books and other matters of that sort which have nothing to do with the running of the State. It is because of that sort of activity that I believe this legislation is fully justified in encouraging the States to have due regard to the jobs that they are doing in their respective States and to have some regard and some responsibility for those things. 

 Senator McAuliffe either does not understand the system of tax indexation or has not studied the issue very closely, because he clearly made the point today that there would be a no-growth factor in personal income tax. That of course would be absolutely true if in fact there were a falling rate of tax, but tax indexation stops exponential growth of taxation at rates greater than the rate of inflation. Tax indexation will take out of the system the thrust of people moving into higher tax brackets as inflation has its effect. It will not mean that there will be a restriction on the growth of revenue. That will rise in direct proportion to the rise in incomes. The other factor involved is the rise in the general level of economic growth in the community, which will be distributed to the States in the proper way. So I believe  Senator McAuliffe  misunderstood totally the impact of tax indexation. 
One of the greatest furphies thrown around in respect of this new system is the theory that it represents a form of double taxation. We saw that developed to a great extent during the State election campaign in New South Wales. I hope that one has been properly put to rest. We find it emerging occasionally from some of the back bench Labor members in the South Australian Parliament. This is merely because they have not taken the opportunity to read the proper documents. For the record, it is pretty clear that there will be only one taxation return and only one collecting agency. The matter is well and truly controlled in that way. 
I would like to make some reference to the points that have been made in South Australia by the Minister for Local Government,  Mr Virgo.  On some basis known only to him, he has come up with a formula which shows that in 1975-76 the Federal Government gave to local government in Australia some $225m. No one has been able to determine exactly how he came to that conclusion. The point at issue is to demonstrate that the $140m that has been set aside in this year's Budget for local government is in fact significantly less than the figure he has arrived at in his own mind. The truth of the matter is that local government in Australia will be collecting, as is clearly stated in Budget Paper No. 7, of the order of $ 1 95m, which includes the specific purpose grants, as well as the $140m general purpose grants. It is interesting to note too that whereas last year general purpose grants made up only 29.1 per cent of the total, this year they represent 7 1 .6 per cent of the total. 
This clearly demonstrates the Government's drive to encourage local government to spend money in the way it sees best. In my experience in South Australia, this philosophy has been accepted and very well recognised by local government. Well might local government in South Australia be pleased with the federalism policy, notwithstanding the comments of the State Government. We only have to look at the grants in the current year compared with those last year. The Elizabeth City Council this year will receive $20 1,000 compared with $ 1 10,000 last year. The Port Adelaide City Council will receive $390,000 this year compared with $245,000 last year. The Woodville City Council will receive $445,000 this year compared with $280,000 last year. These are the significant facts which people in local government have regard to and have observed. They are fully conscious that they are gaining from the new federalism policy brought down by the Fraser Government. 
The only other area to which I refer concerns the special problems of South Australia in regard to very large areas of the State that are unincorporated. Before the review of the legislation in 1981 there may well be need to review the situation of new areas that may be incorporated between now and then. We hope that there will not be an attempt to redistribute from present grants sums for new incorporated areas but rather that there will be an adjustment of the total amount available in each State in order to cover these areas. I would like the assurance of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs that this suggestion will be taken into account in such an eventuality. 
Finally, I mention the obvious support demonstrated throughout the community for the Government's policy in the area of local government. I wish to quote from the news sheet put out by the Local Government Association of New South Wales comments about the Federal Budget. I received this news sheet only a day or two ago. It states: 
First, the Associations- 
That is, the local government associations of New South Wales- 
Have no hesitation in repeating their strongest possible support for the revenue sharing system, which we consider to be a major advance and on which we commented in detail previously. 
I believe that that is the crux of the interest and genuine support that is developing around the Australian community for this proposal and it is the reason why I support the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. Does the Bureau of Meteorology or any other agency within the Minister's departmental control undertake pollen counts or in other ways analyse the quantity of allergy-producing material in the atmosphere? If so, will the Minister investigate the possibility of publicising daily information of pollen levels in the same way as weather reports during the spring and early summer for the benefit of the millions of asthma and hayfever sufferers? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the considerable disquiet among businessmen, particularly small businessmen, at the ever-rising demand by the Bureau of Statistics for increasing numbers of statistical returns on various aspects of their businesses? Is he aware of the complaint of many businessmen that they have not readily available much of the information sought and that considerable labour is required to obtain it? Is he also aware that some State government departments are now requiring similar but not usually precisely the same information? Does he agree that the pressure of such requirements leads inevitably to a less than satisfactory standard of accuracy in the preparation of these returns which may effectively devalue the data collated by the Bureau and possibly lead to incorrect decisions based on that data? 
It is perhaps not surprising that we notice that the Australian Labor Party has pulled out its usual ideological targets in these matters, namely, the rural industries and the mining industries. It has totally forgotten the effects of cost increases on the import competing industries in Australia. The collapse of those industries during the last 3 years of Labor administration, due to high inflation, has been the source of rising costs and has resulted in the loss of an enormous number of jobs in the Australian community. People have only to look at the examples of the white goods industry and the furniture manufacturing industry in Adelaide to understand that the substitution of imported parts in refrigerators, washing machines and things of that sort has resulted in a huge rise in unemployment. 
But devaluation is the answer to those problems to which the Government has addressed itself. It is important to realise that devaluation is not an independent policy but rather part of a total monetary control policy. That, of course, is what the Government was about during its first year in office, namely seeking to control the flow of funds both into and out of Australia and in that way determining the overall liquidity rate in the economy. We know that the economy presently is highly liquid and in fact that monetary growth has been of the order of 18 per cent per annum, whereas Budget Paper No. 2 sets out the required growth rate of about 10 per cent to 12 per cent. 
The objective of that, of course, was to try to reach a single digit inflation rate by June of next year. 
The signposts in the total administration of the monetary package were, of course, the wage indexation cases and the effects on the economy of commodity price fluctuations overseas. In the last week we have seen handed down the wage case decision which passed on the full amount of wage indexation and ignored the previous decisions on plateau indexation. Obviously that has set the stage for further wage increases and further cost increases in the economy. That was perhaps the first and most important decision. Because the Australian economy has come to rely on export industries, commodity prices have fallen very sharply in the last few weeks, and I mention particularly the prices of copper, tin, lead and zinc. The fall in these commodity prices, driven on by the fall in the exchange rate of the pound sterling, has caused significant problems and represents a real signpost as to the future flow of funds into and out of this country. The Government had to act now. If it had waited longer, import competing industries would have been put under further pressure and, of course, our reserves, which had already fallen quite significantly, would have fallen even further. That has not been helped by the speculation engendered by the Labor Party spokesmen, in particular  Mr Hayden,  whom I suppose we would call the shadow shadow Treasurer, and  Mr Hurford.  We notice that when  Mr Hayden  first made his statement about this matter in September he was roundly rebuked by all financial journals in Australia because in that week there was a flow of currency out of Australia of the order of $600m. Of course, the Labor Party gets a great deal of pleasure from realising that the prophecy that it has been sprouting for a number of months has now come to pass. 
We heard the question asked today by  Senator Cavanagh  about the borrowing standing of the Australian Government overseas. He sought to make the point that there is some connection between what occurred last Sunday and the fact that apparently we are unable to raise $ 1 billion overseas. The truth of the matter is that if the Government were to seek $ 1 billion overseas to shore up the currency at this point, the cost of that with a future devaluation would be astronomical. Honourable senators can see that by looking at the effect of the 17 per cent devaluation on a sum of $ 1 000m. An amount of $ 1 70m would go down the drain; that would be the cost to the nation, its taxpayers and the people in general. 
Certain things have been spouted about, particularly by people spurred on by the Australian Labor Party and its propagandising on this issue. That is precisely what the ALP has been doing in the last few months in seeking to force the Government to its second option in regard to monetary controls. We see, as I mentioned earlier, that the credit squeeze which members of the ALP are now spouting about is dependent upon control of the liquidity in the economy in the next 6 months. As I mentioned earlier, the economy is highly liquid and running well ahead of demands within the community. Consequently, by soaking up the amount of money that is envisaged by the Treasurer in this statement, we will be able keep the monetary situation on an even keel. But more importantly, we must recognise that the devaluation will result in funds flowing into Australia. It is important that those funds be monitored and controlled, for by controlling the flow of money into Australia we will be better able to control the liquidity levels which in turn will keep a tight rein on any possible emergence of future inflation. 
The other issue which the Labor Party has sought to exploit in the last few days is that of costs.  Senator Wriedt  stated a few moments ago that the effect of this devaluation will be to drive up costs some 5 per cent in this year. It is not at all clear how he formed such a judgment. He leaves that to other economists. Some economists estimate that the cost will be no more that 2 per cent in this year. 
-Yes, from  Dr Norman  of the University of Melbourne. If one uses some common sense in this regard, one takes notice of the movement in the consumer price index over the last few months. It is well recognised that the main movements in this index in an upward direction have derived from increases in food costs. Imported food is not a big item in the overall level of costs in Australia. Consequently, it will not be expected that devaluation will have a major effect on that. More importantly, there is this major issue for Australian firms competing with imports: By obtaining increased volume as a result of less competition from imported goods they will be able to achieve greater economies of scale. In fact, over the last 3 years there has been a contraction in this area. The contraction of overseas export markets, as well as the contraction of local markets as a result of imports arriving on the Australian market, has caused manufacturers to shorten their operations to such an extent that unit costs have risen dramatically. This is quite outside the effect of other costs that have driven up the average cost of manufactures, anyway. It is that which devaluation, with its major thrust, will seek to amend. 
I refer finally to the support which has been offered by the Tasmanian Premier in this regard. 
He might have particular reasons for so doing, because an election is just around the corner in that State and is due to be held on 1 1 December. That indicates to me quite clearly that there must be some political popularity in this measure, especially in Tasmania. I do not think that it is at all untoward to mention that I have been in Tasmania during the last week as a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Mount Lyell Operations and taking part in the Committee's hearings. This devaluation will assist the Mount Lyell Mining Company to quite a marked degree. I support the statement and welcome the sentiments expressed by the Treasurer. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to my previous questions in relation to the provision of $ 1.7m by the Commonwealth to reimburse local fire brigades for the cost of protecting Commonwealth property, particularly Telecom Australia switchboards, etc. I remind the Minister that on the last occasion he informed me that 2 States had yet to reply to offers from the Prime Minister in regard to the distribution of funds. Can the Minister inform me whether replies have now been received from those 2 States? If they have not been received, will the Minister take urgent action to bring this matter to an early conclusion in the knowledge that the high costs of Telecom charges are undermining morale amongst volunteers in the Emergency Fire Services in South Australia at a time when it is predicted that this year will present one of the highest bush fire risks on record? 
The Income Tax Laws Amendment (Royalties) Bill 1976 is an extremely complex and technical piece of legislation. There are 3 matters to which I would like to refer. I hope that the Senate will bear with me while I try to explain them. First of all, as was pointed out by  Senator Wriedt,  this Bill stems from the decision recently handed down in the Sherritt-Gordon case. Consequently the Government has taken the decision to re-define the term 'royalties'. There has been some reliance in the past on the United Kingdom definition of that word. That has relevance insofar as it affects our arrangements with the United States of America and Canada in relation to our double taxation agreements. However, while the Bill re-draws that definition it does so extremely widely. 
I put it to the Senate that there are circumstances in which it could well be that payments which are in the nature of capital- for instance, payments for know-how or perhaps even payments which are in a lump sum for secret formulas that have been purchased from overseaswould not be deductible from the income of companies and taxpayers in Australia but which payments would be subject to the deduction of tax at the rates set out in the Act as they went overseas from Australia. Also those amounts might very well be subject to taxation in overseas countries. I will come back to that point in a moment because it is not entirely clear whether the double taxation agreements would apply in these cases. So I am putting that a situation could arise whereby in the normal course of business an item is not deductible for taxation purposes in Australia but is subject to tax, and maybe double tax. 
The second point is that the matter at issue in the Sherritt-Gordon case derived from problems in the interpretation of the definition of a royalty, stemming from amendments to the Income Tax Act back in 1968. It has been held, of course- I refer to clause 9 which  Senator Wriedt  mentionedthat, because of the doubt that has arisen due to those original amendments which were effected back in 1968 and which have been held by a number of authorities to be the cause of quite a badly drawn section in the original Act in 1968, it is possible to interpret that particular clause as excluding people who are due to be paid royalties back-dated to 1968 but who have lost their right of objection following the amendments which were announced originally on 5 July 1976. So it is quite feasible that because of the redefinition of the term 'royalty' that has been included in income, people in that area will have lost the right of objection as far as dealing with the Taxation Department is concerned. Consequently, they will find that they have no right of appeal because assessments had not been issued on that income prior to 5 July 1 976. 1 am sorry that this is such a technical matter but it is important to recognise that a serious inequity could arise. 
It might well be said that because the Act was drawn in the form that it was in 1968, no one would have contemplated a challenge such as resulted in the Sherritt-Gordon case. But the facts are that because of the considerable doubt in the original drafting of what might have been clause 9 or its equivalent in the original Act there could have been expected to be a reasonable challenge to the definition of 'royalty'. In that event, it seems inequitable that people should lose their right of objection as from 5 July 1976 if no assessment has been issued. The whole purpose of the Bill, of course, is to try to clarify the definition of 'royalty'. This is a matter which indeed needs clearing up. I ask that the Minister refer the item to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  While I do not oppose the Bill, of course, I should like clarification of that matter and assurance that there will be no problem in the future as far as the particular definition that I am speaking of and the likely events that could flow from it are concerned. 
Another point is that there is no clear statement that as yet an agreement has been reached with the United States and Canada over whether or not they have the same corresponding definition of royalty as is set down in this Bill. That is a matter of particular concern since we are certainly in no position to assume that the governments of those countries will adopt exactly the same stance as ours in relation to the taxation of these items. I understand that negotiation is going forward with those governments in order to come to a conclusion over this matter and others which are features of any amendment that might come in respect of the double taxation agreements. But there does not seem to be in this Bill or in any of the explanatory memoranda any statement as to whether or not that has actually come to pass or whether or not there has been any assurance that that will be the case. I think that has particular relevance insofar as we are considering the considerable doubt that might occur over what might well be termed 'retrospective effects' of this taxation law. Retrospectivity in taxation is something that is always to be eschewed. It is something that ought not to apply in general circumstances. Taxpayers ought to have the right of course to plan their own affairs as they see fit. They should not have imposed on them unfairly retrospective taxation. I ask that the Minister look at this matter again. As I said before, I support the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In the light of significant structural changes in business and the relocation of employees resulting therefrom due to economic upheavals over the last 4 years, can the Minister say whether the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is able accurately to predict, by statistical method or other objective processes, the extent of the effects on other employers and community employment levels of the closure or contraction of a particular industry in the community? If not, are there methods used overseas which could be adapted for use in Australia? Would not such information be vital to the preparation of Budget estimates in respect of the unemployment benefit, relocation allowances, etc.? Will the Minister request his colleague to investigate this matter, perhaps in conjunction with the Department of Social Security, to establish the worthiness or otherwise of such methods? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources aware that Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd has expressed significant interest in proceeding with the development of a petrochemical works at Redcliffs in South Australia and that the South Autralian Minister of Mines and Energy,  Mr Hudson,  has claimed that unspecified 'support' is required from the Federal Government? Can the Minister indicate whether any approach has been received from the South Australian Government in this connection? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a report in today's  Australian  that a system of quarterly tax payments for companies is to be reintroduced? Is the Minister able to confirm or deny the veracity of this report? If the system is to be reintroduced can the Minister assure the Senate that there will be sufficient notice to companies of the implementation of the decision so as to avoid undue pressure on the liquidity of companies at this critical stage of economic recovery? 
I do not intend to answer any of the points raised by the previous  speaker  because most of them are identifiable as absolute rubbish. I should like to refer to several matters in the Bill and bring them to the attention of the Senate. Firstly, I will add to the general thrust of the remarks of my colleague,  Senator Tehan,  and point out that the impact of Federal estate duty laws affects only 1216 per cent of people who die in Australia. I think that firmly reinforces the argument that  Senator Tehan  proposed that the position of the Federal Government in exacting this form of taxation ought to be reconsidered. He referred to a Senate committee report in 1973. Some dissenters from the opinion expressed in that report recommended that the Federal Government should vacate the whole field. 
I wish to refer particularly to clause 5 (3) of the Bill which sets out the various exemption levels. The level is $90,000 in the case of an estate passing to a widow or widower. The exemption is reduced where the estate passes to a widow, widower, children or grandchildren of the deceased person. The exemption level in any other case is reduced to $20,000. A situation which may arise in this regard has been raised with me by professional practitioners in this area. It is possible that if a person seeks to provide a small legacy of, say, $500 or $1,000 to a person who is not in the category of a widow or widower his estate might very well be subject to a reduction in the exemption level from $90,000 to $40,000, due to the fact that the whole of the estate is not passing to the widow or widower. I have referred this matter to the Treasury and I am advised that sub-clause (4) will take care of that situation and that the Commissioner has a discretion to relieve that particular problem. This is another example of putting discretion in the hands of officers or public servants rather than setting out the principles in the law. The Department has been kind enough to provide me with a copy of calculations on 3 levels of estate where this situation may arise- estates of $60,000, $ 1 00,000 and $ 1 50,000, where in each case there is a gift of $5,000 to a person who is not regarded as a widow or a widower. Those calculations show that I have no real reason for fear but I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the light of the very high levels of liquidity of building societies, is it likely that the recently announced increase of 0.2 per cent in the interest rates for Australian savings bonds will affect the supply of funds for housing? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to a recent statement by the Minister that the Federal Government intends to set up an authority to regulate training and accreditation of interpreters and translators. Recognising that this will be a major step in breaking down discrimination against migrants and recognising the considerable interest in this particular subject in South Australia, can the Minister indicate how soon the authority will be established? 
I warmly support the Bill. I acknowledge, as  Senator Button  was trying to point out to us, that the Prices Justification Tribunal, which was established in 1973, has been successful in changing the shares of national income from a ratio in favour of profits to one in favour of wages. Over the last 3 years there has been a very significant drop in the share of national income going to profits. It has dropped from some 15 per cent to around 10 per cent currently. This is an example of the approach which the Prices Justification Tribunal has adopted in seeking to establish a new distribution of wealth in the Australian community. It has been well achieved, but it has been achieved very ineffectively and very inefficiently because along the way it has succeeded in bringing to their knees a great number of businesses- and not all of them large ones. 
It is very interesting that  Senator Button  should speak particularly about the public interest. It is of the greatest importance that under the public interest provisions of the Trade Practices Act the activities of a company that is able to control a market are subject to scrutiny. That provision will be applied in this legislation. That is very sound and takes away the major objections of business as to the costs of compliance with the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation, which are not the same things to which  Senator Button  referred as matters of inconvenience. I will return to that later. I mentioned the inefficiency of the activity of the Prices Justification Tribunal. That has been demonstrated well and truly since its establishment. The inefficiency has sprung not so much from its rulings as from what might be termed the 'drag' in listening to the propositions put forward by companies and other interested bodies, coming to an arrangement about those things and finally making a statement. All this takes time and destroys the initiative and the incentive of companies which want to be able to get on and do the job. In other words, it has been a matter of the imposition of more and more bureaucracy on business, with which business has found itself particularly unable to cope in times of rising inflation. These points have been made consistently and do not necessarily apply only to large businesses. 
I would like to demonstrate the effect of the activities of the PJT on small business. I take as an example the newsagent in the local district whose level of income relies on the price which is obtained for the newspaper from the community.  His  commission, his profit, depends upon that figure. Generally speaking, that commission is his sole source of income. During the period to which I have referred, when there is a considerable 'drag' in passing decisions of the PJT through to business, the small business man is put under greater pressure than his counterparts at a higher level or those who are better able to cope with financial problems. In that situation the small business man, because he cannot get an increase in the price of his goods, finds himself unable to cope with financial problems and is forced out of business. That is typical of the sort of thing that has occurred in the community, even though it is quite clear of course that small business men do not need to report to the Prices Justification Tribunal. However, they are affected by the decisions of the Tribunal. This has been one of the very sad side effects of the implementation of this legislation some 3 years ago. 
I am particularly pleased that the role of the Prices Justification Tribunal henceforward will be one of price surveillance rather than price approval. This will take it into that very significant area of public interest and public concern. As was pointed out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  it will lay emphasis on 'whether or not the company or companies concerned are in a position substantially to control a market for goods and services' and 'the reasonableness of the pricing behaviour of a company or companies over a period of time'. That seems to me to be very important, since its seems unreasonable to lay very difficult provisions on businesses which are unable to cope with the compliance costs- the costs of employing accountants to prepare cases for the PJT, counsel to give advice and advocates to appear before the PJT on behalf of businesses. That seems to me to be quite reasonable in the public interest and is in line with the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. 
My only other interest is to make sure that the Senate understands that the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal have been inefficient over the period of its operation. This has contributed to business losses. It has affected businesses badly and brought them to their knees. The question whether short run costs or long run costs are taken into account in assessing prices and the return on capital has been of fundamental concern to businesses but apparently not to those on the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
The Tribunal, of course, has paid attention to short term fluctuations in such a way that prices have been passed on to the community. Of course, this has led to increases in charges and hence has helped inflation along the way. Had those costs been assessed against the longer run activities of the business, the decisions by the Prices Justification Tribunal may not have had that effect. In fact we can see plenty of examples where seasonal factors have affected price changes. This means that the PJT in effect has been acting, if you like, as a body which very largely confirms short-run price increases without having regard to the longer term effects of its own decisions. In this way by being inefficient and ineffective it has in fact contributed to inflation. I support the Bill. 
-Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce say when a decision on the future of the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla can be expected? 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers  who, on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, is today representing the Treasurer. My question follows that asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland concerning activity on the stock markets yesterday. Is the Minister aware that whilst there may have been some early indecision in the market, the all ordinaries index in the Melbourne Stock Exchange closed higher than Monday's index? Does the Minister agree that investors have comprehended the Government's economic moves and that this is evidence that they believe the Government is moving correctly to restore business confidence after three disastrous years of Australian Labor Party Government? 
-Can the Minister for Science indicate whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or any other agency within his jurisdiction is undertaking, or has undertaken, tests as to the flammability of acrylic blankets? If so, what do these tests indicate? 
There is one thing on which the Labor Party has always been consistent and that is its continual confusion about the economy. For instance, today we heard  Senator James  McClelland greatly defending the sorts of wage restraint pressures and policies that this Government seeks in the coming wage case. He made great play of the fact that during his period of office as Minister for Labour and Immigration in 1975, he brought to the attention of the then Government the need to reduce the pressures of inflation on this community. That of course is the key element in this economy and the economic problems we have today. I shall read part of a letter which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of, I believe, Monday's date, and which was signed by 'Chris Hurford, MHR for Adelaide, "Shadow Treasurer" '. 
It reads: 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Not only is the Labor Party confused in relation to policies; it is confused as to who is its spokesman on economic matters.  Mr Hurford,  whom we thought was speaking on behalf of the Labor Party, laid down a program in this regard some fortnight ago. A couple of months ago the famous 5-point Whitlam plan was laid down by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  We have also had the Hayden plan. This on top of the plans of the succession of Treasurers when Labor was in government. As I said earlier, this total confusion is the only consistent thing present throughout Labor's economic policy. 
What are the real problems that we face in the economy at the moment? Certainly one is inflation, and that is recognised by  Senator James  McClelland. Inflation today is running at a rate of something like 12 per cent to 13 per cent. In the United States that rate is some 5 per cent; in Japan it is about 9 per cent; and in Germany it is about 3.7 per cent. Some justification of Labor's economic plan as laid down by  Mr Hurford  has been claimed on the basis that the new  President  of the United States,  President  Carter, has decided to adopt a plan involving big spending, the creation of a deficit and tax cuts. 
The figures that I have just cited make quite clear the difference in the nature of the problem between the United States and Australia. That country, with an inflation rate of some 5 per cent, is able to cope with the rest of the Western nations in its trading situation. But a country such as Australia because of the enormous disparity between an inflation rate of 5 per cent and an inflation rate of 13 per cent has greater problems in coping with that difficulty. This is on top of the natural disadvantages arising from distance including the problems of freight costs. 
Labor is trying to convince the public through a rather determined propaganda exercise that unemployment is somehow related to the election of the Liberal Government on 13 December 1975. The unemployment rate in January 1977 was quoted at 5.8 per cent compared with 5.6 per cent a year before- only slightly up. If one takes into account the Regional Employment Development scheme employees who were still in the work force in January 1976, that difference is even smaller than that fraction of 0.2 per cent. But shadow Treasurer Hurford has tried to indicate differently by claiming recently that the number of jobs which have been created in the Australian economy in the last 12 months have been only approximately 10 000 whereas anybody with half a modicum of commonsense would realise that the school leavers from last year must have been absorbed into the work force to a very large degree if unemployment is still running at about the same level as it was in January 1976. 
In fact statistics show that even though unemployment is still at about the same level as it was a year ago 70 000 jobs have been created in the Australian economy and people have been absorbed into the work force. We can read the type of prediction that has been coming from shadow Treasurer Hurford along with other predictions from ex-officio leaders of the Opposition such as 
Bob Hawke to the effect that 500 000 will be unemployed by Christmas. That is how good the Labor Party is at predicting future economic events. 
Let us look quickly at some of the indicators of improvement in the economy since we came to office on 13 December 1975. Gross non-farm production is up by 7.6 per cent, greater than had been achieved in any time during Labor's period of office. Retail sales increased in each quarter also. In November they rose by some 2.6 per cent and in December by 1 .2 per cent. The question of retail sales is related very closely also to the problem of inflation. Let me quote from the recent monthly bulletin of the National Bank, dated January 1977, which on this matter said: 
It is interesting to note that the resurgence in consumer demand has been most pronounced in those countries where inflation has been contained. This resurgence has been clearly evident in the United States and West Germany where the rates of inflation for the first 9 months of 1976 were 3.9 per cent and 2.9 per cent respectively. In contrast, the continuing high level of inflation in the United Kingdom was accompanied by a reduction in the real level of person consumption spending. 
So, again, in the area of retail sales, in order to stimulate a consumption recovery, the need exists first to tackle the problem of inflation. 
What has happened in housing? These are the relevant figures in real terms of the investment in housing over the last 4 years. In 1973- the year following Labor's election to office- using constant dollars, $3 50m was spent. In 1974, the figure was $250m, a drop of $ 100m in that year. In 1975, expenditure rose marginally to $2 70m. In 1976, the first year of the Fraser Government, the figure was $320m. So, in one year we had achieved almost a balance with the 1973 figures. Those statistics are borne out by the figures of housing approvals which show there were 138 000 such approvals in 1976 compared with 118 000 such approvals in 1975. Real private investment in plant and equipment in the period March to September 1976 rose by 4.3 per cent. That compares with a 3.6 per cent decline from September 1975 to March 1976. Yet,  Mr Hurford  seeks to remove the investment allowance in exactly the way Labor removed the investment allowance when it came to power in 1972. 
What has happened in respect of productivity? I refer to the production per employee. In 1973- we must remember that a Liberal Government was in power in 1 972 -there was an increase in productivity of 3 per cent. In 1974 productivity declined by 3 per cent. In 1975, a disastrous year, the decline in productivity per head was 4.5 per head. In 1976 there was a dramatic recovery in productivity. It rose to one per cent above the zero line which represents a change-around from 1975 of 5.5 percent. 
We have talked about inflation as being one of the major problems. But most times people talk about the consumer price index. We can use other indicators such as the index of materials and manufacturing industries, which has risen 10.3 per cent only in 1976. The question of inflation is very much tied up in our minds at the moment with the matter of the Medibank levy. Obviously there will be a lump appear in the statistics in this coming announcement of CPI figures. Everyone is aware of that fact. But for the Labor Party to make capital out of that fact as though it were part of a long-term continuing trend is to practice an absolute falsehood. The most important factor is the underlying trend of inflation and, as represented by the figures quoted by my colleagues previously, this is showing a determined trend downwards. 
Let us look at another indicator- business profitability. The profit share of gross national income in 1975 was 12.4 per cent whereas in 1974 it was down to approximately 1 1 per cent. This year it has recovered to an annual rate of about 14.5 per cent. This compares with the long-term recognised annual rate of 15 per cent at which business feels it is profitable to invest. Again, we are coming to the point where we can expect increased investment from business as a result of this development. Perhaps we should have some regard also for the changes in our overseas investment situation. In the period 1973-75 when Labor was in office there was this positive zenophobic approach to overseas invest-  ment. The total percentage of overseas investment in 1971-72 as a proportion of total investment in manufacturing industry was 39.7 per cent. By 1974 this proportion had declined to 15.2 per cent. It is interesting to note that in that period the percentage of company income being repatriated overseas jumped from 27.3 per cent to 52.7 percent. 
I return to the question of inflation because the key factor in encouraging foreign investment in this country is the understanding that foreign investors have as to the future trend of inflation. They want to know that costs in this country are under control and that we are able to compete on world markets. Obviously it is in Australia's long-term interests to ensure that we encourage foreign investment according to the guidelines which this Government has adopted. It is also important to recognise that during the period to which I have just referred foreign investors obviously were able to invest in those areas that were growing faster than others and consequently were able to obtain a better return on their funds than were Australians. That is an important lesson that Australian investors should take into account and have regard to. 
Much also has been made of the illusory credit squeeze that is around the corner for the Australian economy. It is well known in financial circles that such will not be the case. Plenty of scare tactics are being adopted by members of the Opposition to encourage a feeling that funds cannot be raised from banks. That is utterly illusory and totally without foundation. One is reminded of  Mr Hurford  's remarks in January 1976- over a year ago- when he predicted the same thing for 1976. It did not happen, because of the outstanding ability of the Treasury to manage the treasury bond situation in the latter part of the financial year 1975-76. No doubt the Government has its hands well and truly on the tiller. I reject out of hand the motion before the Senate this afternoon. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the hostile reaction amongst coin collectors to a recent announcement by the Australian Mint that the price of $14.50 for collectors' sets of Australian coins which have a face value totalling 88c and which are soon to be released is apparently excessive? Will the Minister seek an assurance from his colleague that the price has been properly determined in line with normal commercial practice? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Commissioner of Taxation since 1 January 1977 adopted the practice of issuing default assessments even in cases where taxation returns, subject to normal tax agent arrangements for late lodgments, have been lodged well within the time limit? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to this morning's newspaper reports that the New South Wales Attorney-General is threatening to legislate for further controls over the securities industry. In the light of abuses revealed by the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange and the clear need for co-ordinated national legislation in controlling securities markets in each of the States and in order to avoid the exploitation of legal loopholes by interstate companies, is this threat likely to make more difficult the Minister's earnest efforts to obtain agreement between the States which he has undertaken since July 1 976? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does Telecom Australia generally make available to the deaf a device to amplify telephone conversations? If so, what is the cost to deaf subscribers? If not, does Telecom have plans to provide such a service? When might it be expected to be implemented? 
I rise firstly to commend  Senator Lewis  on his excellent address this evening in his maiden speech. Unfortunately I missed about half of it so I shall be looking forward to seeing the balance in  Hansard  tomorrow. But I understand from my colleagues that it was a most constructive speech and augurs well for his future in this place. The several matters that are set out in the Queen's Speech of yesterday do not touch just on the questions of inflation and the economy generally which have been the chief issues which have pre-occupied us over the last year or so. The Speech includes several matters, references to positive achievements of the Fraser Government since it has been in power in respect of various areas to which it has paid attention. These cover a wide variety of spheres. Of course some of these are in the areas of human rights and definitely in the area of social reform. I shall come to some of those matters a little later. 
I should like to pick up a few of the points that have been raised by  Senator Grimes  and also to refer to the practice that has developed in the Opposition, ever since it came into that state, over the last 12 or 15 months of constantly talking down the economy. It is to a great deal of shame to members of the Opposition that some of the achievements of the recovery over the last 12 months have not been made as clear to the Australian people as they would like. Take for instance the devaluation that occurred on 28 November. Of course we all remember back in September 1976 that magnificent statement emanating from the lips of the shadow Treasurer, Bill Hayden, commenting upon the fact that even Blind Freddie could see that there would be a devaluation around the corner. At that time vast numbers of millions of dollars left Australia. Those very statements that emanated from the Opposition were designed for political purposes to undermine the value of the Australian dollar on overseas markets and to force a devaluation which otherwise might never have occurred. However, I am refreshed to see that the Opposition does not have all the ears of the people. In the last day or two we have seen some encouraging remarks coming forward from the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd which received some prominence in the media. I should like to quote from the ANZ Bank's  Business Indicators  of 'March 1977, No. 104: 
It is even more essential that those who make public opinion- business and labour leaders and the media which interpret them- should cease aggravating the gloom, and acknowledge the economic progress which is being made (even though some may consider that the chosen official policies are imperfect) and refrain from asking governments to deliver what is beyond their powers to deliver. 
That is a most significant statement at this time. It clearly demonstrates that, backed up by figures in this month's  Business Indicators  bulletin economic recovery is well on the way. We have seen an increase in gross non-farm product over the last 12 months of the order of 7.5 per cent. Productivity, which had been declining for the last 3 years, has suddenly turned around into a positive area, a jump in this last 6 months of about 5.5 per cent at an annual rate. In the area of the share of national income going to profits, whereas this declined to a lamentable level of around 10 per cent in 1974 this has now risen to 14 per cent, which is within cooee of the long term rate of some 1 5 per cent. I emphasise that that 15 per cent figure is most important when businessmen consider when they need to invest to increase their capacity to go forward, and can see some positive achievement at the end from profits. 
We have all read a lot about tax cuts recently in the newspapers and of course the Opposition, true to form, has jumped on the band wagon. I suppose it would be probably the most politically popular thing to do, except to spend more; there could be nothing better than to advocate cuts in taxation. As we have said before, the size of the deficit is a significant factor in the determination of the rate of inflation in Australia. Because of that and the Government's determination to beat inflation it has decided that tax cuts are inappropriate at present. That is not to say that that is a denial of the promise that was made during the election campaign and subsequently that tax reform remains a basic objective of the Fraser Government. The reform, when it comes, must be basic. It cannot be shavings of 2 per cent here or 5 per cent there or things of that order. It must be a thorough program to eliminate the anomalies in the income tax legislation and the problems that occur in the other sections of the taxation law. It is to that which the Government is addressing its mind; it is not out seeking popularity by cheap tax cuts. It is seeking to look at the basic problems bedevilling businessmen generally and individual workers in the community by seeking a thorough-going tax reform. 
Just to indicate some of the problems relating to the income tax schedules for individuals, I wish to quote one set of figures. Taking a person on a salary of around $14,000, which I think was well recognised when  Dr Cairns  was the Treasurer in the Labor Government as being an above average but reasonable level of income, on the tax scales as they apply today the income tax applicable to that level of income is $4,560. That leaves a net disposable income of $9,440. Assuming that inflation runs on at the rate of about 12 per cent a year- heaven forbid that it will, and certainly it will not under the Fraser Government- over a 5-year period that salary could lift to $24,672. If no tax indexation applied, the amount of tax applicable to that salary would be $10,242. That means that in 5 years time the net disposable income of that average earner would be $14,430. It might be said that that is a $5,000 improvement over the present situation, but that is without discounting the effect of inflation over the 5-year period. In today's real terms, that net disposable income of $14,430 would be worth merely $8, 187, which is some $1,300 less than the amount applicable today. What has the Fraser Government done about that situation? In its first year of office it implemented the tax indexation scheme at a cost of some $ 1,000m in the first year. Of course, that is an improvement on the promise made during the election campaign that tax indexation would be introduced over a 3-year period. There certainly has been no denial of any promise. 
In the area of unemployment, the problems we have faced over the last three or four years have resulted directly from Australia's decreasing ability as against the rest of the world. Today the inflation rate in Australia, which at the underlying rate is of the order of 10.8 per cent, is approximately double the rate in the United States. Because of that it is quite obvious that the ability of Australian manufacturers to compete by exporting overseas or, alternatively, by manufacturing in Australia or deciding whether to import into Australia goods which are manufactured overseas, has declined enormously. If Australia can be grateful to Frank Crean for anything it can be grateful for his statement made in 1974 that one man's pay rise is another man's job. The evidence at this time is clear before us. In the manufacturing area 100 000 jobs have disappeared since 1973. As a percentage of the work force, the manufacturing sector has declined from some 29 per cent about 10 years ago to around 21 per cent today. The reason why we face difficulties with unemployment is that our basic cost structures in Australia are so high that in fact we are unable to employ more people. Applying Frank Crean "s excellent logic to this matter, it is clear that we have to face some realities, particularly at the moment with the national wage case at issue, and it is extremely important if we are to solve future problems. 
One of the great mistakes of the Whitlam Government was its failure to recognise during its period of office that the economy was changing. As one celebrated member of the House of Representatives, my colleague  Mr Bert  Kelly, the honourable member for Wakefield in South Australia, has often said, the economy is a bag of worms; it is moving and changing all the time. So it is that over the last few years we have seen increasing revenues pouring into the economy as a result of our increasing exports of minerals and other primary products. This has meant that because of the rising balance of our foreign reserves we have had more money available in Australia for the purchase of overseas-manufactured goods. Consequently, again because of our higher cost structures in this country, it has become more and more attractive for people in Australia to buy overseas-made goods. Why did the Whitlam Government not realise that those changes were occurring? That is the question. We know that the changes would have been recognised by any competent manager of the economy, and indeed they were recognised during the period of the McMahon Government. Why did the Whitlam Government not take steps to offset that situation? The answer is that it was too concerned at the time with seeking to milk the private sector of the economy in order to feed taxation revenues into more and more grandiose schemes. Everything that the Whitlam Government did was designed to exacerbate those problems. It cut the tariff by 25 per cent and revalued the dollar, thereby only increasing the opportunities for people who wanted to buy overseas and making it more attractive for them to do so. 
The question of cost structures in Australia, which has been well and truly outlined today, is at the crossroads at the moment with the case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I have been particularly interested to read the comments which have emanated from the commissioners and from advocates putting forward various views about the appropriateness of the consumer price index as a measure of cost increases and hence a basis for passing on wage increases in the community. The Government has advocated that quarterly hearings are far too frequent, and indeed there appears to be some logic in that. The more hearings there are and the more cost increases are passed on to the community, the more likely it is that business will be unable to cope with the increasing pressure. We have seen too the lumpy effect of the Medibank cost in this one period. It has been estimated by the Bureau of Statistics that the Medibank component, or the component for the cost of health care as it is probably more properly described, increased by 3.2 per cent during the December quarter of 1 976. The point which I think is quite relevant here is that that 3.2 per cent refers to the whole annual cost of health care yet it is being passed on in one quarter of the financial year. Of course, people who are paying a health insurance levy through their contribution to Medibank or, alternatively, are buying private health insurance are, generally speaking, paying that premium over a full 12 months period, possibly in weekly or monthly instalments. I believe that the Government's case is quite clear. The exclusion of that 3.2 per cent effect is of great significance. I should correct that and say that in fact the Government is not arguing that the cost of medical care should be excluded from the consumer price index. It is advocating a pass on of $2.90 as a flat rate in order to cover that cost. I believe there is justice in that because it appears to be related to the cost of health care as it has affected the community in the last 12 months. But it is also related to the approximate award wage for a metal worker. 
Another interesting statement has emanated from the Bench in regard to the 2 factors that go to make up the wage elements in Australia. There has been discussion of a possible return to the basic wage element plus a margin. We know that that system applied in Australia for a great number of years and was abolished, I think, about 20 years ago. It is interesting to note when comparing wage level changes as a whole from 1968 to 1976 and comparing the 2 categories of worker- one skilled and one unskilled- that in 1968 a boilermaker 's wage at the award level was $55.03 while today it is $ 128.96 and whereas in 1968 an unskilled builder's labourer's wage was $50.2 1 today it is $ 148.94. In other words, he is getting $20 a week more than the boilermaker who has served his apprenticeship and gained his skills over a considerable period. These things are thrown into greater relief when one compares the award wages for bricklayers' labourers and plasterers which from 1967 to 1976 have increased by 338 per cent whereas an experienced graduate engineer has had wage increases of only 232 per cent. That is 100 per cent less than the increase applying to a bricklayer's labourer. 
Because of the effect of these changes in our cost structure, we find people are being encouraged more and more to take jobs in unskilled classifications rather than in skilled classifications. Consequently our bank of skills within the community has declined. Yet that bank is the strongest thing on which we can draw for the future benefit of the nation. That is where our technological increases will come from in the future. Those things are at the core of the increase in our efficiency as a nation. Those things are at the core of an improvement in our overseas situation, which will lead to a continuous and consistent return to our original financial position and economic situation in regard to the rest of the world. 
One of the areas that the Arbitration Commission has been discussing is the return to the basic wage plus margin concept. Bearing in mind the figures I have just cited, I believe that is a worthwhile suggestion to investigate further. Of course I am no expert in the area of wage negotiations and of understanding thoroughly the impact of these various issues, but I believe that this area is of significance and is one which ought to be examined further by all parties presently putting their cases to the Arbitration Commission. 
The other areas which I should like to mention briefly concern the securities and exchange laws which have been mooted recently by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Howard.  As I understand it, he is presently conducting investigations with the State AttorneysGeneral with a view to coming to a conclusion about establishing a national securities and exchange commission and also the implementing of a national companies law. As I understand the present recommendations, that law would be administered by the various States. I believe that there is an essential need for active co-operation of the States in this matter. I hope that this would see favour in their eyes in the next few months so that there can be an early conclusion to these negotiations which started in July 1976. The latest report, labelled the Masterman report, which commented on the affairs of the Patrick Partners organisation in Sydney has raised again the question of the control of stock exchanges, members of stock exchanges and the whole principle of whether or not stockbrokers should be able to regulate themselves or whether there should be a national commission to control them. It is my belief that there is only one way by which we can properly control the affairs of companies which operate across State borders and that is with a comprehensive national company law. I hope that there will be early implementation of these thoughts during the coming period of the Fraser Government's term of office. 
The final matter that I should like to mention is the area which affects a great number of aged people in the community today. I refer to those people who have worked hard during their lifetime to reach retirement and saved their hard earned wages over many years and invested them frugally by perhaps purchasing a little real estate. Over those years they have set aside a nest egg which they anticipated would enable them to live in some comfort after retirement. Today, because of the level of the threshold for old age pensions and other benefits, these people find that they are not claiming benefits from the Government, yet the income they are earning from the various assets in which they have invested is not sufficient to meet their requirements. This, of course, has had a dramatic effect on their standard of living and is a great problem in the community generally. 
Another matter which is related to that is the impact on people who have been living off superannuation or pensions which have been run by private employers. Because of the dramatic effect of inflation over time, and more particularly in recent years, these people have found themselves in a situation where those pensions have not been capable of being increased to levels where a decent return can be expected. Consequently, because of the inability of the employers who have been running these superannuation funds for some time to meet the increased requirements for these expenses they have found that it is in their interests and in the interests of the members of the superannuation fund to capitalise those funds and pay them out in one lump sum. So they leave the management of that investment to the individual as he best sees fit. Of course this has denied people some security. Honourable senators can imagine the effect of people who have reached the age of say, 65 years, and never had very much business experience or have little knowledge about investment procedures and the way business is carried on m the community. They are faced at that time of life with having to invest a considerable amount of money. They also have to take attendant risks related to that investment, particularly in these times of high inflation. 
I find that this situation is of particular concern in the community at the moment. It is something which can be assisted by appropriate adjustments to threshold levels of various pensioner benefits that are available. It is something that can be looked at also from the taxation aspects. There is a great deal of concern amongst people who are reaching that age that, as a result of the Hayden Budget of 1975, they will have to pay provisional tax on their incomes. This is something with which probably in general terms they had nothing to do during their younger years. They have a great deal of difficulty in coping with these problems and find them extremely confusing. I therefore hope that these are some of the matters that will be considered by the Federal Government during this Parliamentary session and during the period of its office which, of course, will continue beyond the next election. It is with great pleasure that I support the motion. 
I present the following petition from 149 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendation by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5, 903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the announcement yesterday of the trade deficit figures for February. It is reasonable to assume that the higher level of imports for that month reflects payments for imports for which commitments were entered into prior to the devaluation of the dollar in late November 1976? If so, is it likely that this effect will be non-recurrent? Is it expected that the anticipated result of the devaluation, namely, a decrease in imports, will emerge in the coming months? 
My question is addressed to  Senator Guilfoyle  as Minister for Social Security and also in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In the light of the growing need for the provision of adequate interpreter and translation services in hospitals, law courts, social welfare agencies and the like, and the shortage of qualified interpreters and translators, has the Government given consideration to the development of translation by computer-based and/or video machines? Will the Minister request her colleague to refer the question to his Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for investigation? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the recent burglaries of the offices of private aircraft operators located on Commonwealth land at Parafield aerodrome in Adelaide over the last few weeks. Is it a fact that the Department of Transport provides security patrols at Adelaide airport and at all major capital city airports to protect both private and Commonwealth property? Is this security service provided for second and other lesser airports? Is the Minister aware that at such airports considerable valuable aircraft spares, equipment, as well as cash and other negotiable articles are stored? If no such service is provided, will the Minister bring the matter to the attention of his colleague with a view to investigating it? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware of the recent completion of the work, 'Environmental Sculpture', of West German sculptor Herbert Hajek at the Festival Theatre in Adelaide and the widespread dismay amongst South Australian artists who claim that Australians should have been consulted before a South Australian Government commission was offered to a foreign artist? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Australian artistic community will be consulted in the event of Federal Government artistic commissions? 
I want to answer one or two points  Senator McLaren  mentioned during his speech on electoral matters. I do wish to get into the basis of the discussion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Cavanagh,  I take it that your point of order is about a contravention of Standing Orders. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I uphold  Senator Cavanagh  's point of order. If honourable senators look at standing order 63 they will see that  Senator Messner  may take the opportunity to reply to  Senator McLaren's  remarks tomorrow should the first reading debate be brought on. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of the considerable concern in business and accounting circles in relation to the proposed treatment for balance sheet recording purposes of tax savings arising from the Federal Government's cost of sales valuation adjustmenu Can he say whether the Corporate Affairs Commissioners in the Territories are investigating this matter? Recalling the confusion over tax effect accounting which was in evidence last year following a statement from the Commissioner in the Australian Capital Territory, will the Minister seek from his colleague clarification of the matter before 30 June 1977 when interested parties will commence preparation of financial statements? 
I wish to make a few comments on the statement made by  Senator McLaren  in respect of the electoral situation in South Australia. Firstly, I thoroughly repudiate his statement in connection with the remarks of the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  in the House of Representatives. I do not think that there is any way in which the statement of  Mr Staley  can be interpreted as criticism of the State Electoral Districts Boundaries Commission. In fact, the Boundaries Commissioners merely followed the terms of reference given to them under the Electoral Act. There is no question of their having any discretion in the matter. The terms of reference refer precisely to the existing boundaries being preserved to the maximum extent possible. In no way, therefore, can it be interpreted that the Minister's remarks were criticisms of the Boundaries Commissioners. That is an unfair conclusion to draw.  Senator McLaren  has done what Labor politicians have been doing in South Australia for umpteen years in order to justify their stand on the issue of the so-called one vote, one value. He has taken a set of figures which simply show party votes, comparing one party with the other, since 1938 to the given date. He had those figures incorporated in  Hansard  last night. 
He made no statement at all as to whether compulsory voting applied in various circumstances; whether there were elected to the House of Assembly in South Australia independents who supported the government of the day; or whether many seats were contested in those elections. As he well knows there was a period of 10 to 1 5 years when less than half of the number of House of Assembly seats in South Australia were actually contested, being either safe Liberal seats or safe Labor seats. Consequently, there is no way that he can draw a statistically balanced judgment merely by comparing percentages of party votes. I cite as an example the 1959 election. I think it was held on 7 March. In that election 2 1 of the 39 House of Assembly seats were uncontested. I think that totally destroys any argument that  Senator McLaren  may advance on the basis of the figures which he had incorporated in  Hansard. 
-There were 21 uncontested seats out of 39 seats. Another point is that compulsory voting in South Australia was introduced in 1944. To refer to a time earlier than that is not to give any statistical balance to the interpretation of results after that date and before that date. 
-That is true, they were held in 1938 and 1941.  Senator McLaren  emphasised those elections last night and related the 1938 election result to the fact that the Liberal Party in South Australia gained only 3 1 per cent of the votes in the 1975 election. I totally repudiate  Senator McLaren's  statements. I hope that he will see the light himself and correct the table which he had incorporated in  Hansard  last night. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the considerable concern at the apparent delay in establishing a new telephone exchange at Mount Barker in South Australia. Is the Minister able to say when the new exchange in this area of very rapid population growth will be opened in order to relieve the presently overloaded temporary unit? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of rumours circulating in the community concerning the possibility of an alteration to the taxation law to provide for taxation of 100 per cent rather than the present 5 per cent of accumulated long service leave payments drawn by retiring employees as part of a retirement allowance? Is he further aware that many employees deliberately have not taken long service leave during their working lives in order to supplement their superannuation capital at retirement? Does the Minister agree that such a change would be inequitable since such a scheme would result in these payments suffering tax at the highest marginal rate of 65 per cent, in most cases, whereas had such a person received his long service leave in the normal course the payments would suffer tax at only his normal rate of taxation? 
I personally would like to thank  Senator Georges  very much for his remarks in relation to this important matter which obviously inclined towards the adoption of a bipartisan approach it to. Like  Senator Georges,  I very strongly support a national approach to the problem of controlling the securities industry. However, we must have regard for the fact that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has considerable constraints upon him, as we all appreciate, because of the various company laws that emanate from the various States in this Commonwealth. We find it extremely difficult to tear into the subject and obtain overnight solutions to situations, that involve deep rooted constitutional positions and, as  Senator Georges  would well appreciate, political stands that have been entrenched since the creation of Federation. 
I pay tribute to the Minister for having reached the stage of making this statement. I commend him for his timeliness, bearing in mind recent events in regard to Patrick Partners and other companies which have failed. It appears to me that his remarks in this statement are properly directed. There are 3 definite problem areas in regard to controlling the securities and companies areas in the Commonwealth sense. Firstly, the States control company legislation and this means that we must have very close cooperation with the States. A matter flowing directly from that is the need to obtain uniformity in legislation in the various States and here comes the direct conflict between State and Federal interests. This is something that has been extremely difficult to solve but I believe that the Minister has found a successful formula. 
It is evident from statements by the various State Attorneys-General that they also agree with the approach of the Minister in this regard. The chief conclusion is that a Ministerial Council, having as members the various State Ministers and the Federal Minister, should in the end be the deciding body in respect of the establishment of uniform legislation. There is a provision that if there is a 6-month delay in the enactment of mirror legislation in the various States the Ministerial Council's views will override those of the States. I find that to be an extremely valuable compromise between the interests of the States and the Commonwealth and it is in the interests of national control of this particularly important industry. 
I want to look very quickly at the whole question of the securities markets and to refer to the question of investor confidence, which  Senator Georges  mentioned particularly. The abuses evidenced by the mining boom and its excesses in the latter part of the 1960s and early 1970s obviously have done great damage to the ability of the Australian capital markets to raise finance for the extension of Australian industry. We have to face the fact that a certain frenzy existed in those days. Today we have a situation in which we can approach the matter more confidently. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide details of the value of all social security benefit payments, including unemployment benefit written off as irrecoverable in each State, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
In general terms, what recovery procedures were implemented and what was the success rate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General a question. 1 refer to a recent Press report that a Sydney entrepreneur plans to import lie detection devices for sale to credit agencies, finance companies and other such bodies for use in assessing the quality of replies to questions addressed to applicants, seeking information as to their credit worthiness? Does the Minister agree that such activities should be closely  surveilled  to ensure that individual rights are not infringed? Accordingly, will he alert his colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is responsible for customs, to the possibility of the import of such machines with a view to liaising with the Attorney-General in this matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question, without notice, on 29 March 1977: 
I refer to the considerable concern at the apparent delay in establishing a new telephone exchange at Mount Barker in South Australia. Is the Minister able to say when the new exchange in this area of very rapid population growth will be opened in order to relieve the presently overloaded temporary unit. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is he aware of the very great financial and other demands arising from Industries Assistance Commission reporting requirements which fall on very small firms engaged in relatively small scale activities which, by virtue of geographical location or the uniqueness of their products, are important to the economies of particular communities? Will the Minister give consideration to this matter with a view to devising a threshold test or some other method to relieve the burdens which the present system imposes? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the successful treatment of epilepsy by neurologists through the use of sodium val porate which is commonly known as 'Epilim' which, I understand, is not on the list of approved pharmaceutical benefits and which is significantly alleviating the effects of epilepsy amongst the many hundreds of sufferers in Australia. Will the Minister refer the matter to her colleague for investigation with a view to having the drug included on the pharmaceutical benefits list? 
-It has become almost typical of Opposition senators that, whenever it seems that definite signs of economic recovery are becoming apparent in the community, they make the sorts of accusations and very unwarranted attacks on Government policy that they have made today. They are continually seeking to undermine the confidence that is emerging gradually within the community. The point that they have raised today on the question of a White Paper on the manufacturing industry underlines that very clearly. If people expect that a White Paper on the manufacturing industry will suddenly solve all the problems overnight they have another think coming. The problems which emerged when the Australian Labor Party was in office, some of which are built into the system, chiefly through wage indexation, are the problems which we have to overcome in order to develop proper confidence in our manufacturing industries. 
We face today enormous problems which have been brought upon us by the twin evils of inflation and unemployment. I think perhaps we ought to quote a few more statistics for  Senator Douglas  McClelland in order to show the problems that have arisen since 1971. It is quite clear that one of the chief problems in manufacturing industry that this country faces is that manufacturers find it cheaper now to import components or, in fact, to have goods manufactured overseas in order to lessen the Australian labour content in their particular industries. This applies in the motor vehicle industry, the white goods industry and particularly in the textile industry. 
We have to ask: Why has this occurred? It occurred very chiefly because of the huge wage increase actively encouraged by the Whitlam Labor Government during 1973. In fact, if we look at the graphs we can trace from the March quarter of 1973 the trend towards rising wages which started 3 months after Labor came to office. I suppose it is all right to say that the Labor Government was activated by union pressures to increase the benefits for the people who were supporting it. But the fact is that these benefits were provided in such a willy nilly, not thought through fashion that they obviously created enormous pressures in the costs of manufacturing industry. I shall quote some of the figures for wage increases from 1971 to date in Australia compared with those in overseas countries. Wages in Australia have risen since 1971 by 69 per cent. This compares with an increase of only 22 per cent during that period in the United States. In Germany during that period wages increased by only 1 7 per cent. Wages in Australia increased at more than 3 times the rate at which they increased in the countries which are our major trading partners. 
It is interesting to note that in the period June 1971 to March 1973- a period ending 3 months after Labor came to power- wages in Australia rose by only 5 per cent. During that period there was quite strong growth in manufacturing industry exports. Today export growth has disappeared before our very eyes. Consequently, the job situation in Australia has been affected also. If one  compares the  growth in wage costs with the increase in the consumer price index from 1973-74 to the September quarter of 1976 one finds that average weekly earnings in that period increased by 66 per cent while the consumer price index increased by only 49 per cent. So, in fact, wage costs far outstripped the increase in the consumer price index during that period. Consequently, wages have increased to such an extent that they have driven manufacturers' costs upward to a point where they find it impossible now to compete on overseas markets. So much for the export situation. 
It is most important, of course, to consider the imports which flowed into this country as a result of the over valued currency which the Whitlam Government deliberately brought about in 1973. The revaluation of the Australian dollar in 2 steps made it more attractive for people to import goods rather than to manufacture them in Australia. This affected the employment situation in manufacturing industry. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  has pointed out already that 1 10 000 jobs disappeared from the manufacturing sector. Employment in manufacturing industry fell from 23.6 per cent of total employment in 1973 to about 2 1.6 per cent in the past financial year. This is a dramatically different Australia from the Australia of the 1 960s when manufacturing was increasing rapidly under deliberate policies of the Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon governments. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland has brought to our attention the fact that a White Paper on manufacturing industry has not yet been delivered. I support the thrust of the Minister's comments, namely, that what we need is a document which is thoroughly thought through and that searches out the many difficult problems that we face in assessing the whole picture of manufacturing industry in Australia. Let me name just a few areas where many government departments would be involved in formulating their views in order to feed them to the Governmentall of them very complex areas. Taxation policy is a basic element in determining the future of manufacturing industry. Yet, of course, the Government, faced with a tremendous deficit, finds it extremely difficult to address itself to taxation cuts. It is one of the significant aspects of the overall result of the Whitlam Government's policies that we are loaded with expenditures which cannot be reduced. Industrial relations are a very very complex and difficult area and raise many different concepts that perhaps have not been employed over the past few years. Yet during 1976, under the administration of the Fraser Government we have seen improvements in industrial peace statistics. Even that is generating confidence within the manufacturing sector of the economy. 
It goes without saying that the many issues that are at the core of our employment situation need to be thought through very carefully and incorporated in a White Paper on manufacturing industry. Our overseas exchange situation is vital to consideration in preparing a White Paper. As I said earlier, we have just seen the impact of an over valued currency on the job situation in the manufacturing sector. We want to generate more and more exports of manufactured goods, if possible. The adjustments which the Government has undertaken recently in respect of the variable deposits ratio scheme to stabilise capital markets from the inflows to this country of speculative money have been directed in such a way as not to affect manufacturing industry. 
Again, the Department of Overseas Trade and other departments connected with that aspect must be finding it very difficult, in the light of current situations arising from the Labor Government's period of office, to prepare longer term policies and feed them into a White Paper. There is the whole issue of the finance marketsthe stability of the capital markets that was undermined during the term of the Whitlam Government. We now see extremely high interest rates which have resulted from the very high level of inflation we now face. It is a feature of inflation that interests rates are high. Therefore, we have to attack the root of the problemthat is, inflation- in order to ensure that interest rates come down. If interest rates fall, naturally more and more confidence will be generated. The Government's policy is directed that way. 
Consideration should be given to the immigration of the people we need to generate more demand for Australian manufactured goods as well as to provide more employment within manufacturing industry. It is said by some people, and particularly by members of the Opposition, that over the past few years migrants have been nothing more than factory fodder. Of course, this is absolutely ridiculous. We know that in many manufacturing industries there is a very high turnover of labour, so people coming into this country do have the opportunity to go into the manufacturing industries, establish a foothold and find their own way into the community from there. 
So all in all we have a situation in which the Government, firstly, had to find out what sort of a mess the economy was in and, secondly, had to devise policies to remedy it. It has not been standing still waiting for the final preparation of a White Paper. In fact, we have seen in the past year or eighteen months policy decisions emerging from the Government in all sorts of areas affecting business and, in particular, manufacturing industry. We saw a statement on motor vehicle policy. We have seen a very clear approach being adopted in respect of tariff quotas as they apply to the textile industry. We have seen the introduction of the investment allowance, which has given companies an opportunity to benefit to the extent of about $400m as a result of new investment activities. This obviously has generated a great deal of interest in the manufacturing sector because some $1.2 billion worth of investment has taken place in the last year. The trading stock valuation adjustment, which is a very significant reform in favour of business and taxation policies, was introduced in the 1977 Budget. This permits a taxation deduction for 50 per cent of the increase in stocks as a result of inflation in the financial year ended 30 June 1977. This on its own will bring benefits to manufacturing industry worth some $400m. All these things are direct additions to the level of confidence in the manufacturing sector. 
There are also the adjustments to the Temporary Assistance Authority which were mentioned earlier by the Minister and the special instructions to the Industries Assistance Commission. But there are other things as well. The Minister has undertaken to establish industry consultative committees which will include members from the Opposition and members from the Government Parties. There have been significant breakthroughs in overcoming the lack of confidence in the business community by virtue of adjustments to the Prices Justification Tribunal Act in such a way as to ensure a freer passing on of costs in the community in such a way as to enable business to survive. The amendments that were foreshadowed in a Bill brought down in the House of Representatives before February in relation to the Trade Practices Act are significant in terms of increasing confidence in the business community. This obviously will provide a basis for further discussion within the community as to freer movements within business and consequently will lead to more investment. 
All these things of course are overlaid by the Minister's administration. He has an obvious interest in the problems of business generally and I am particularly encouraged by his decision to establish a Bureau of Industry Economics. Obviously this sort of break-through is significant and will lead to a better understanding of the interdependence of our various industries in Australia and consequently a better understanding when it comes to making off the top of the head decisions in regard to tariff cuts such as we saw during the Whitlam era. We look forward to the emergence of reports from that Bureau over the next few years so as to gain a greater appreciation of the position of the manufacturing industry in our community. 
May I finish my remarks by again pointing out to the Senate that although this motion of itself is of no value, I am glad to have been able to speak to it and to give people an opportunity to understand what the Government has been able to achieve during its relatively short period in office in the area of manufacturing industry and, in fact, in the economy as a whole. I hope that people will realise that the White Paper itself, being a very important document, must set down very clearly a blueprint for Australia's manufacturing industry in the future. It cannot be motivated by short-term objectives. It must be motivated by an assessment of what is needed for genuine progress in Australian industry. It is that, I am sure, that the Government is undertaking. We look forward to its emergence. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. I draw the Minister's attention to an article appearing in the South Australian Catholic Weekly newspaper the  Southern Cross  of 22 April calling for an increase in the grants to non-government schools. Is the assertion of the author,  Mr John  McDonald, correct when he states that needy primary schools receive grants equal to 32 per cent of standard costs of educating a child at State schools and that secondary schools receive 30 per cent? Is his further statement that the Schools Commission has recommended that by 1977 needy schools should receive 40 per cent of the average cost of educating a child also correct? Can the Minister indicate whether this matter is recieving consideration in the current pre-Budget Cabinet discussions? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Taxation Commissioner for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act now recognises maximum superannuation benefits as high as $251,832, compared with $80,000 in 1970, as a basis for calculating deductions allowable to companies for contributions on behalf of employees. Has this not resulted in substantially increased taxation deductions being allowed to businesses trading as companies? Is it also a fact that small businesses and professional persons who are prohibited from operating as companies by virtue of smallness or ethical considerations are entitled only to a taxation deduction of $1,200? Is this level the same as that established 10 years ago? Does the Minister agree that on grounds of equity such taxpayers should be entitled to increased tax deductions to bring them into reasonable relativity with those who are able to arrange their affairs so as to trade as companies? 
I address my remarks to clause 36 of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill and in particular I refer to the future operation of that clause and the regulation of a minimum valuation basis for companies in the future. I believe this will allow a more modern approach to the overall amount of assets required by companies to be set aside as contingencies against their liabilities falling due and we will find that life insurance companies will be more capable of obtaining better returns and consequently of investing their funds more profitably. Obviously life insurance companies in the past have done extremely well in serving the people of Australia. I notice that in the last year the after-tax rate of return to life assurance companies was about 7.76 per cent. That compares more than favourably with returns which incur no taxation, such as those of the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation scheme. Of course, it compares more than favourably with a pre-tax interest rate which is available on the money market today. Obviously, the rates of return to life insurance companies are affected greatly by the alterations to the taxation laws of the last few years. Taxation, multiplied by a factor of 3.5 as it affected life companies, has had its effect in not flowing through to mutual shareholders or policy holders. It has effectively cost them something of the order of $350m in that time. Consequently, this must have serious effects on the growth of the life insurance industry over this time. It seems that the only area which has grown in the last few years has been that of the surrender of policies already held. Of course, this has occurred due to the rates of inflation around the place in the last few years. 
I also address my remarks to proposed new section 138(13) of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill which refers to the creation of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. In effect it refers to the people who will be entitled to sit on that Tribunal. I suggest to the Minister that he consider the possibility of the exclusion of brokers and directors of broking firms in that context as well, as it would seem that they have a direct interest somewhat comparable to the people who have been excluded under that proposed new section. The value of the industry in Australia is well worth nurturing as it employs something like 25 000 people throughout the community. Of course, that is only in the life assurance field. In relation to the Insurance Amendment Bill, in that general area I believe some 30 000 to 35 000 people are employed. So the industry is a substantial employer and, as  Senator Baume  pointed out earlier, a substantial investor in the community. In fact, I believe that something of the order of 12 per cent of Commonwealth securities outstanding are held by life assurance companies. These are worth about $2,000m. That is a sizeable proportion of the Commonwealth debt and, consequently, the insurance industry is a major provider of funds for the Commonwealth for its development and expenses. Of course, this leads to the impact of the 30/20 rule which we know has also restricted the overall earning capacities of life assurance companies over time. 
I conclude by paying tribute to the life assurance industry and to the people who are employed in it. They have done well to have held their heads above water in times of such high inflation. Some of the professional people whom I have come across in the industry are of the highest value. They are certainly people of great quality and of the highest integrity. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bills. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the distress caused to persons who are separated or divorced and who have legal custody of children of the marriage to whom former partners, carrying dual nationality, are entitled to access. Is it a fact that in many cases the non-Australian country entitles the passport holder to include on the same passport his or her children? Can this lead to such children being legally spirited out of this country without the knowledge of the legal custodian? Will the Minister request the relevant Ministers to give urgent consideration to this problem with a view to obtaining the restriction of" duality of passports for the children of persons who are not their legal custodians? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present its one hundred and sixtythird report. I seek leave to make a statement. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. Do countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development contribute to a study of the relationship between multinational companies and the governments of their host countries in regard to the interchange of research and development information? Is it a fact that Australia does not participate in this program? How many other OECD countries do not participate? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the one hundred and sixtyfourth report. I seek leave to make a statement. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: In the light of considerable concern in South Australia about the state of the housing industry in that State and the numerous calls for interest rate reductions, does the Minister agree that such an action would be inflationary and would lead to further cost increases which would, in turn, make a recovery in the industry more difficult to achieve? Furthermore, does he agree that Federal Government moneys channelled by the Dunstan Government under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, as well as other State-sourced funds, into increased construction of homes which people are unable to buy due to high prices would be better directed to increasing the maximum loan available to home seekers from the present $ 1 8,000 to, say, $25,000 in order to reduce the present stock of unsold homes? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the decision of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd announced yesterday to shelve the sackings of 600 employees. Is the Minister aware of the statement yesterday by South Australian Premier Dunstan in which he said: 'The Federal Government must now play its part by reducing sales tax on motor vehicles'? Does the Minister agree that such irresponsible statements will only serve to depress car sales as evidenced by past experience due to people holding back in anticipation of a tax cut? Is he aware that such statements have caused and are causing considerable dismay to motor vehicle dealers and manufacturers? In view of this, will the Minister urgently request a further clear statement from the Treasurer as to the future sales tax on motor vehicles? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to the provision of drought relief to farmers in South Australia. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has agreed to provide funds to the State governments to assist drought affected farmers? Has the South Australian Government met all the requirements necessary to qualify for assistance under the scheme? Has the South Australian Government received an allocation of funds from the Commonwealth for this purpose? If so, to what extent? Who is responsible for setting the criteria to establish eligibility to qualify for that assistance? What is the interest rate agreed between the States and the Commonwealth to be charged on loans made to farmers under the scheme? 
Firstly, I express my gratitude to the Opposition for supporting this legislation. It certainly is a breakthrough in some areas in respect of taxation reform. We would know that over the years the taxation law and the way in which companies, businesses and individuals in business are taxed have got far away from the principles of accounting. Consequently, the step which is being taken by virtue of this legislation, especially in respect of stock valuation adjustment, seeks to restore that situation. The whole basis of this stock valuation adjustment, which is the centrepiece of the legislation, is to establish the maintenance of the operating capacity of the business. In other words, what has been happening with inflated values of stocks over the years is that because of the increasing prices and the lack of ability of individual firms to replace stocks on their shelves, their overall volumes of stocks have fallen. Consequently, to maintain an adequate level of stocks and to increase it to keep up with demands, more and more cash needs to be poured into the business, At the rates of interest that have been applicable in the community in recent years, that has become quite a penalty on business, to the extent that many firms have found the going too tough and have gone out of business. To base taxation on profits which are calculated without an allowance for inflation is to tax capital, which is not recognised in our taxation law except in the area of estate and death duties. 
Recently we heard announcements by the accounting institutes about the introduction of new principles for inflation accounting. I instance the recent statement known as 'Current Cost Accounting'. Unfortunately, that statement has not gained immediate recognition in the community, especially not from the taxation authorities, because it fails to take into account adjustments for monetary amounts in the assets of companies and businesses. I would like to see the Government in future consider the possibility of adjusting its concept on this matter to take into account an adjustment for inflation as far as assets are concerned, calculated in relationship to the equity of businesses rather than having an adjustment applied to the total assets of a business. I believe that to be a perfectly reasonable proposition. Indeed, it ties in with the concept I mentioned earlier, namely, that of maintaining the operating capacity of the business at the level which existed previously. As I mentioned earlier, this has not yet received recognition in any way from the taxation authorities, except insofar as the adjustment made in this legislation applies. 
There are many other areas that I personally would like to see taken into account in any consideration of future thinking in this regard. I have mentioned particularly the provision in regard to long service leave. Currently that item is not deductible by businesses against taxable income. That means that a business is actually being forced to pay out 42.5 per cent of its provision for long service leave long before it is ever required to pay it out to the employee concerned. Of course, an offsetting adjustment is allowed, most likely at a lesser rate, for payments made in the year for which tax is being paid. 
There are other matters to which I wish to refer. For instance, there is a provision in respect of repairs to various buildings and/or assets which are leased. Perhaps those repairs are not incurred in any one year but accrue over many years. Such items are not allowable as deductions under the present tax laws. I believe they should be taken into account in assessing taxable income. Nevertheless, the Government's moves are most welcome as they are heading in the right direction towards establishing compatibility between accounting income and taxable income. 
The stock valuation adjustment provision will cost revenue some $360m in the 1977 financial year and obviously it will be a great boost to business during that period. I think it has to be made clear that it is not a gratuitous benefit that will be flowing to business; rather it is an adjustment to what might have been regarded as, or is regarded as, overstating taxable income. Safeguards are included in the legislation. They refer to the broken periods that arise from the sale of businesses from time to time. In particular, an income tax adjustment will not be allowed for a business in the income year in which it closes unless it is terminated on the death of the proprietor. In that case a special proportionate adjustment will be allowed. In the case of a new business or where there will be no trading stock on hand at the commencement of the first year, the deduction for the first year will be calculated on the basis of two-thirds of the value of the stock on hand at the end of the year. In the case of a business which changes hands, the deduction will be measured by reference to the value of the trading stock at the beginning of the year and the value of the trading stock at the date of sale, whichever is lower. The deduction allowed will be shared between the vendor and the purchaser in calculated proportions. These moves seem to be reasonable, and they certainly safeguard the revenue against abuses that could arise. 
There is one area which needs a little more consideration. Perhaps the Minister may be able to clarify it later. I refer to the situation when the scale of operations of a business has been reduced substantially during a year. It is not entirely clear to me whether there will be an automatic adjustment to the closing stock value every time there is a lowering in the opening stock value. I stress here that the purpose of the stock valuation scheme is to assist those businesses which want to preserve the same level of operating capacity. But if adjustments were made to the opening stock value in circumstances in which the business had cut back production, or perhaps changed its operations through fortuitous factors and perhaps even entered into other activities, we would fail to come to grips with the main purpose of the legislation, which is to maintain operating capacity. Obviously there still will be times when the proprietor who has tried to maintain his level of stocks has not been able to achieve that end. In those circumstances consideration will be given by the Taxation Commissioner to specific cases. Consideration also will be given in cases where the current level of stocks is only just short of the level necessary and required to maintain the previous year's stocks. I hope that there will be some formula which will take into account the changes brought about by purely fortuitous factors, such as market values, climatic conditions, man days lost through strikes, the supplies of necessary raw materials being delayed, and things of that sort. Of course, it may result in the Taxation Commissioner making purely arbitary decisions. However, I believe that he will keep these things well in mind when he comes to consider individual cases. 
One other matter which  Senator Wriedt  referred to and I believe needs some airing is the problem of companies whose balance date falls on a day other than 30 June each year. The problem arises because the adjustment which is taken into account is calculated as at 30 June each year. Consequently, companies that may balance their books on, say, 3 1 December would have to wait until June in order to determine the exact amount of the adjustment that they could allow in their profits. That means a delay of perhaps up to 6 months before they can get an accurate statement of adjustment. That might be regarded by stock exchanges and shareholders as being too long a period to wait. The contraargument, of course, is that companies have to estimate liabilities and/or charges against their profits every year whether or not they are actually known at that particular time. In normal accounting standards, that is a reasonable thing to do. It does, however, raise the question of inaccuracies in the financial statements, and perhaps the matter ought to be given some thought in the future. I guess that at the moment it is a matter of waiting and seeing whether this turns out to be any real problem. 

 Senator Wriedt also mentioned in passing the problem that arises in the wine industry. Because of the technical nature of the amendments that were made in respect of wine companies last year and because of the way that this legislation affects them, those companies will lose a benefit but this will not apply to other companies. 
The averaging provisions of the Bill are interesting and certainly timely. I think they tie in quite reasonably with what we call the income equalisation deposits scheme which commenced on 30 June last. Exempting for income tax purposes the rebate paid under the Commonwealth 
Rebate Apprenticeships Fulltime Training scheme is, I think, a step in the right direction towards encouraging more and more apprentices to be trained in our community. Apprentices represent a key area of shortage in the labour force at the present time. It is estimated that this measure will boost the intake of apprentices by some 12 000 by 1979. 
The only other points I wish to mention are those that were raised in the other House during the debate on this Bill in respect of avoidance, avoiders and/or evaders. Some members of the Opposition in the other place made the point that really there is very little difference between those who seek legitimately to arrange their affairs in such a way as to minimise taxation and those who seek to evade taxation deliberately by illegal means. I believe that that distinction must always be borne in mind, as it is clear that in our democratic society people are entitled to arrange their affairs in the way which they believe will best benefit them. As we all know, some of the areas are fairly grey areas and consequently at times we find some complaints arising from the Taxation Office. We also find references to accountants and lawyers, suggesting that they may not be putting the interests of the nation before the interests of their clients. I submit that these people are hard working people and are becoming quite expert in the operations of the Act which is becoming more and more complex each year. They perform a most valuable service in the community by maintaining a high standard of advice to their clients. 
Notwithstanding that, there is one area in this Bill which is very important. It relates to the closing up of loopholes in respect of dividend stripping and the scheme which is currently being perpetrated, known as the 36A scheme, and which I understand has cost the revenue quite a deal of money. The amendments that are proposed in this Bill will clarify the question of whether or not shares and choses in action are treated as trading stock and consequently would qualify for an allowance under section 36A. I think that this is a step in the right direction to ensure that somewhat shady schemes are written out of the law as quickly as possible, in the interests of people who look after their affairs in a legitimate way. I congratulate the Government too, even though it is a break from previous concepts, on not making the legislation apply retrospectively to 1 July last year but making it apply from the date of introduction of the Bill, 2 1 April this year. I support the legislation. 
-My question is addressed to  Senator Durack  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Minister's answer to my question yesterday concerning drought relief in South Australia which advised that the State Government of South Australia has agreed with the Federal Government to provide relief to South Australian farmers of up to $ 1.5 m as a prerequisite to the Federal Government providing further moneys of up to $10m. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the dismay felt by South Australian farmers that the South Australian Minister of Agriculture has delayed further action on drought relief because of rains in South Australia over the last few days and his stated need to assess the situation? Will the Minister use his good offices to urge the South Australian 
Government to stop procrastinating on this matter? 
I rise to support the Bill. I believe that the decision that has been taken by the Government in this matter is absolutely correct.  Senator Wriedt  has been making out a case that there is a retraction by the Government of some election promise; but in fact there is no retraction of any promise. In fact what has occurred is that the indexation of personal income tax is being recorded at the rate at which wages have been passed on as costs in the community, as stated by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The fact that the Commission took into account factors other than those which obviously the Opposition thought were included, such as the Medibank levy and the devaluation costs, is totally relevant to this situation. I am afraid that  Senator Wriedt  fails to recognise that what we are doing in this exercise is adjusting taxation in line with the rate at which wages have increased in the community. This is total tax indexation and it is not a retraction of any policy that was stated before the 1975 election or at any time since. Indeed, when personal tax indexation was introduced, back in July of last year, indirect taxes were stated to be excluded from the personal tax deflator figure that was to be used in those circumstances. In no way can this be regarded as a betrayal of this Government's stated promises before the last election or since. 

 Senator Wriedt has made a great deal of the issue of a decrease in real wages and its effects on purchasing power. Perhaps he will explain to us why it is that, since inflation has fallen from something like 16  Vi  per cent when this Government came to power to about 10.2 per cent now, in that period of time household consumption has increased by something like 3.2 per cent in real terms. These figures cannot be denied. This is what has happened. Consumption in fact has increased. So, I state again that in the circumstances I believe that the Government has made the right decision in discounting the indexation factor in respect of the health insurance changes and devaluation. I support the legislation. 
-Can the Minister for Education say what criteria will be applied in determining the eligibility for and number of student teacher scholarships to be made available by the Federal Government, other than those under the Tertiary Education Allowance scheme? 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer to an article in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  claiming harassment of taxpayers by Taxation Office officials in relation to payment of income tax now falling due. It is claimed that such harassment includes telephone calls to businesses and individuals about likely dates of payment before extensions of time are granted and threats to commence liquidation and bankruptcy proceedings immediately. Can the Minister indicate whether this action is undertaken at the Treasurer's specific direction or do these activities result from the independent statutory authority of the Commissioner of Taxation? 
On this occasion I find myself in rare agreement with  Senator Button  on the question of the complications of the legislation. Nevertheless, I cannot agree with him that it needs to be held over at this stage. This Bill was introduced about 6 months ago in the early part of December and has been left open for discussion since. Consequently many representationsmany of which I have made- have been made to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and discussions have been held. Also, a debate took place in the House of Representatives towards the end of February. It seems to me that there have been plenty of opportunities for members of Parliament and the community generally to make representations on this and for members of Parliament and senators to have gained a proper appreciation of the thrust of the Bill. They have also had an opportunity to introduce amendments. I do not see any need at this stage, therefore, to refer this particular matter to a Senate select committee. 
It has been reported that the Minister on many occasions has had discussions with the trade union movement in relation to proposed new section 45d. That has come out in the financial Press and in other places from time to time as points have been raised in respect of proposed section 45d. While we are dealing with that particular matter I should like to refer to that section to say that I wholeheartedly support the introduction of this provision in the Act because I believe that we cannot have a law applying to one section of the community but not to another. If a boycott is to apply and companies and corporations are to be prosecuted for taking part in a boycott against another business, I see no reason why another group of individuals should be above the law in that respect. 
I should like to quote an example of a situation that might make it clear for  Senator Button  as to how some people might regard this matter. I know of a case of a rather large South Australian business which operates in every state of the 
Commonwealth and which is presently under pressure from one particular union, none of whose members are members of the staff of this particular firm. Members of the staff are generally members of another trade union. Yet that union, which has no members on the staff of that firm, is taking action in the firms which are supplying this particular firm with goods in another State so as to force the management of the firm to accept that particular union under a closed shop arrangement. I believe that sort of activity is totally disreputable and certainly not in the best interests of the community. Certainly it is not in the best interests of free enterprise or the rights of individuals. I hope that the enactment of proposed new section 45  d  will right that situation. 
Perhaps I should* deal with one or two questions of philosophy in relation to the Bill before proceeding to a couple of other matters that I would like to mention.  Senator Button  was referring to the question of monopoly and the whole question of diversity in society. This principle, of course, is the keynote to the development of a liberal, democratic society in which we believe. Consequently, the enactment of a proper law to control monopolies is indeed in the best interests of our society. I believe that the face of business in the last 15 to 20 years has changed. It has changed significantly since the introduction of the first restrictive trade practices law in 1964, which was followed up by amendments in 1971 in respect of resale price maintenance. I believe those two major reforms have led to greater competition and, indeed, a breakthrough in the area of reducing control over businesses held by the horizontal and vertical price fixing arrangements which were very common in the 1 950s and 1960s and which, consequently, led to a lack of competition in business and to continued sweetheart agreements with trade unions which flowed through to the arbitration system, thereby imposing higher costs in the community. 
The Whitlam Government, of course, introduced the 1974 amendments which we now have in the form of the present Act. It could be argued perhaps that in the 1950s and 1960s- bearing in mind the limited size of the Australian market- certain of those activities have been in the interest of development in this community. Certainly, the Whitlam amendments introduced in 1974 have produced a strangulation of development in the business area. That has occurred because business itself has felt that the Government has no particular interest in its activities and, indeed, that it seeks to control it in such a way as to make it virtually impossible to operate. That particular comment applies particularly in respect of small businesses which find it difficult to comply with the propositions that are included in the present Act, such as having to attend meetings of and make public representations to the Trade Practices Commission. I move to one or two other clauses I would briefly mention. 
Do you mean the cost penalties? 
-Indeed it is, I believe. 
-May I turn to section 49 of the Act and the amendments proposed in the Bill. Section 49 refers particularly - 
I am sorry, I must have misunderstood what  Senator Wright  said. I will check it with him later. 
I will start again, for the third time, on section 49 of the Act and the amendments proposed in this Bill which relate price discrimination. Under present circumstances section 49 makes it virtually impossible for there to be any variation in prices as between supplies to individual firms buying goods from other firms. It has been held by many small business organisations, and others, that this provision is in the interests of small business and certainly it has been demonstrated that because of the confusion that the section has generated in the community many suppliers have been unwilling to take chances and consequently have supplied goods at the one price to all people buying those goods. That has led to price rigidity rather than price flexibility in the community to the extent that in many cases suppliers have tended to change their basis of terms of supply of goods. I know of many examples of cases in which suppliers have tended to ask buyers to take minimum quantities, far outside the ability of small firms to be able to buy those goods, in such a way as to restrict small firms from buying those goods. This has led to a fall in the supply of services in particular communities and consequently people buy at increased prices. This has also led to several small firms perhaps getting out of certain lines altogether and perhaps giving away some particular sector of their operations. I know that there are differences between small businesses in this regard because it depends entirely on the sorts of operations in which they in fact work. I believe there is more than one opinion on this and certainly I am reinforced by a recent letter which all honourable senators would have received from the Victorian Chambers of Commerce in which  Mr Harrower,  the  President  of that organisation, described the long-term effect of this price rigidity which may in fact be to the great disadvantage of small businesses in the longer run. 
Section 50 of the Act refers to restrictions on mergers. The Swanson Committee report recommended that we keep controls over mergers and I am one of those who support that particular point of view. The change in this Bill compared with the Bill that was introduced before Christmas is to the effect that mergers will be allowed except in circumstances where they could create a position of market dominance or strengthen an existing dominance either as a supplier or as a manufacturer of goods and services in the particular market and a market is defined as being either a State or of the Commonwealth of Australia. I happen to support very strongly that section as I believe it is in the interests of the small States, particularly companies in States such as my own State of South Australia, which being very efficient in their own way could perhaps be the target of takeover companies from interstate. Those companies that are seeking to buy South Australian companies might be motivated purely on the basis that a certain company in South Australia is efficient, and consequently they are looking for further profits from that company rather than injecting into their own companies further technical knowhow and expertise. Of course it could also possibly lead to circumstances in which management on which South Australia particularly relies as an economic tool could be restricted and perhaps transferred to other States against the interests of the economic development of South Australia. So I believe that this is a particularly vital provision in the interests of my State. 
In the matter of ministerial direction to the Trade Practices Commission, I am interested to see that the Minister is not able to make directions in respect of take-overs or mergers. Rather the Minister is able, under the Bill as I understand it, to make directions on the general guidelines for the Commission to take account of in respect of such matters as the state of the economy and rationalisation of business generally. 
-Clause 20 of the Bill, I believe. In respect of  Senator Button's  comments on the White Paper, I understand the point he is making particularly in relation to mergers. There is something of a dichotomy, as he points out, in that the White Paper is encouraging rationalisation of industry. Consequently it is only reasonable that the Trade Practices Act controlling mergers ought to allow some easier way of encouraging rationalisation. I believe that we have a neat agreement on those 2 viewpoints by the enactment of the amendment to section 50 inasmuch as we have regard to the basic proposition that market dominance is the factor which would decide whether a merger ought go ahead. 
The only other matters that I would refer to are matters affecting small businesses. They relate to price lists. The amendment in this Bill allows for true price lists to be provided to small business organisations where people are not necessarily using those lists as a means of controlling prices; rather the lists are used as points of reference by small businessmen who perhaps do not have access to other information from other sources and are perhaps lacking in costing records and so on. I believe this is a valuable service and one which is in the true interests of business and of the public in general. The other point is in relation to the price restriction provisions not applying to professionals and people in private practice. Although I do not wish to refer to my own situation, I believe this is a reasonable proposition since we do understand that people in the professions are generally selling their labour rather than goods. 
The only other matter in the area of small business that I would mention is that affecting buying groups. I believe there has been a good deal of success and certainly benefit to the community from the banding together of various small businesses, particularly in country localities over the years, to buy goods from a particular manufacturer in one lot. This has made for certain efficiencies in the transport and delivery as well as the choice and range of goods which are available in local areas. I believe that the amendment to allow for that situation is to the benefit of the public and certainly will lead to greater efficiencies in the economy over time. It is with great pleasure that I support the legislation. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister: In the light of yesterday's announcement on the licensing or the legalisation of citizen band radio, will the Government give consideration to the return of confiscated radio sets to private owners? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General the following question, without notice, on 20 April 1 977: 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General a question. 1 refer to a recent Press report that a Sydney entrepreneur plans to import lie detection devices for sale to credit agencies, finance companies and other such bodies for use in assessing the quality of replies to questions addressed to applicants, seeking information as to their credit worthiness? Does the Minister agree that such activities should be closely surveilled to ensure that individual rights are not infringed? Accordingly, will he alert his colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is responsible for customs, to the possibility of the import of such machines with a view to liaising with the Attorney-General in this matter? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, follows other questions about the AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd. Is the Minister aware that during recent Australian Union of Students election campaigns all students were assured by the AUS executive that the financial position of the AUS travel company was satisfactory? If so, does this suggest that the AUS executive had possibly delayed making an announcement about the financial position of the travel company - 
I should like to congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  for bringing down the Green Paper on Immigration Policies and Australia's Population. It certainly sets out clearly the main considerations that the Government and the community ought to be taking into account in instigating migration programs and carrying on the migration program that we already have. I think it is a most valuable document and it certainly will contribute to decision-making on the part of the Government. I think that it is important that this document should be brought to the attention of the community as widely as possible by members of Parliament and by others who are interested in the community to ensure that there is proper discussion on the many profound issues which the document raises. 
A particular concern that I have- this is the reason that I rose tonight- relates to chapter 7 of the document which is headed 'Society and the Migrant'. In particular, I am concerned about the process by which harmony is established between the various groups in our society, including those which emanate from overseas. I suppose that two main strands of thought run through people's minds in this regard. The first is possibly the concept which we might term as separatism'- that is the method by which ethnic groups in the community tend to grow up somewhat in isolation from the rest of the community. The second is an approach which is more closely identified with the direction of the community as a whole. It seems to me that one of the clearest difficulties we have in this somewhat philosophical area is deciding how and in what way the communities will determine their own relationship to each other. I am thinking of the process by which the German community which arrived in South Australia during the early 1840s and settled in the Barossa Valley maintained its separate identity in a cultural sense right through until very recently in this present century. In fact it has maintained a cultural identity and at the same time it has taken a full part in the total activities of the State of South Australia. It seems to me that that method of harmonising groups within the community has achieved a good deal in the interests of the whole community. We have seen a cultural identity maintained and a spread from that cultural identity through to the rest of the community in such a way as to enrich the whole of the community. I must add of course that my background happens to be German, along with the  President  of the Senate, but of course that is of no real importance in this debate. 
In regard to the process by which I think difficulties are overcome in achieving this degree of harmony between ethnic groups in the community, one has to have a good deal of regard to the real and deep problems that exist for people arriving in a new country. We know of course of the significant language difficulties and we know the difficulty that people have in gaining a full education from a language which they do not know or a language which they know imperfectly. There are the problems which  Senator Mulvihill  and others have raised in the Senate from time to time in regard to the degree in which health care is effectively transmitted from various sources to the new settler in this country, the way in which he uses the legal services which are available to him and the way in which he can best express himself in the courts to obtain justice for himself and his family. These things do present tremendous challenges to us and I am particularly pleased to see that they have been raised in the Green Paper. 
In the matter of education, which I believe is at the core of this difficulty in ensuring harmonious relationships between the various ethnic groups, we have first thought whether we ought to have a system of education in this country which provides a full bilingual education system whereby each person is educated, perhaps firstly in his mother tongue and secondly in English. Then there is the other thought that the emphasis ought to be on a remedial approach to the language difficulties of a new settler by which he may adopt a better appreciation of English by being taught some rudiments of his own language of which he may have only an imperfect knowledge. Taking those two questions into account and having viewed with some interest the developments of education in the migrant area in South Australia I take the point that I believe it is of the greatest importance to the development of harmonious relationships in the community as a whole that we develop an effective remedial approach to language education so as to ensure that people can learn as rapidly as possible the English language to enable them to take their full part in the community. That is not to deny the right of any individual, be he a new settler or an Australian, naturalised or otherwise, to be trained in languages other than English, and indeed I believe that the education system ought to provide that alternative. I believe that it should not be established in such a way as to take away the basic aim of the education system, that is, to achieve a proficiency in the English language. 
There are of course many different ways of looking at the whole question of the way in which migrants are brought into this country. We have noted the success of the last 30 years whereby immigration has greatly assisted the economic development of Australia and also its cultural development. I believe it is important to maintain that multi-cultural approach which in turn contributes to the whole life of the Australian people. It is doubtful whether systems of immigration such as the guest worker concept, which is used in countries like Germany, contribute very greatly and successfully to the development of their particular culture. In fact I believe the concept is that the guest worker would never be naturalised in the country that he adopts and he could come and go virtually as he pleased. I think the main thrust of our policy- or it ought to be- is to ensure that the people who come to these shores do in fact become Australians and do seek to contribute to its culture by becoming full members of the community. Just looking at the concept of guest workers as it applies overseas, I think it is important to recognise that there is probably a degree of what we might call cultural duress on those who are working in other countries while maintaining their links directly with their home country, virtually remitting all their funds to their home country and, indeed, keeping very strong ties with their home country. It is important to recognise the strength of those ties, but in the Australian context it is important, I think, to ensure that people are prepared to take a very profound interest in the Australian way of life and to assist in its development. 
I tum to one or two points which I think may have been misconceptions in the minds of some people and which perhaps have grown up over the years about the ways in which migrants have or have not contributed or may or may not contribute to the community as a whole. I believe there has been some criticism recently of the fact that a degree of money has left this country because migrants have tended to remit money to their home country. In fact I noted from a Press statement from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 6 August that last year migrants transferred $358m into Australia, which more than offsets the amount of $3 13m which was sent back overseas. So in fact there is no drain on Australia's resources in that sense emanating from migration. Another one that has been thrown around from time to time- I think  Senator Mulvihill  was hinting at this today- is the question of whether migration does in fact contribute to unemployment and whether there are difficulties arising within the community because of the many unemployed migrants. I note also from a news release from the Minister dated 6 August 1977 that in fact the percentage of unemployed persons of migrant origin is very similar to the percentage of unemployed in the Australian labour force as a whole. In fact the differences are marginal and tend to be in favour of overseas-born people. 
I have not had it lately. I wish to make one other point about this matter. It has been bruited around that migrants, generally speaking, are finding it extremely difficult to obtain work upon arrival in Australia because of the current economic climate. I think it has been said that migrants are tending to remain out of work for periods of up to 12 months. I believe this was in an article that appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 5 August. Again, according to the statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on this matter, statistics in fact relate to people who at some time during the preceding 12 months experienced unemployment for as short a period as one week. I believe it is natural that people arriving in this country will find it difficult to find a job in the immediate sense in terms of one week or two weeks but it seems from the statistics that are available that there has been a fall in the period of time that migrants have spent looking for work after their arrival in this country and that, in fact, this trend is continuing despite the present difficult times. 
One other matter that concerns me in relation to ethnic communities is the current activity in some communities by certain politically oriented bodies. I quote as an example the activities of the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families, which has been attracting a deal of public attention. I think  Senator Mulvihill  referred to it earlier in respect to  Mr Salemi.  This organisation is doing a great deal of damage within some areas of the Italian communityin South Australia. It appears to be connected directly with the Italian Communist Party and I understand that it has connections with the Australian Communist Party. 
I can produce some evidence relating to the first point. 
-Quite apart from that aspect, there is a degree of stirring occurring in Adelaide in such areas as ethnic radio. It has been noticed that FILEF has been attempting to obtain representation on ethnic radio committees and in other areas in order to influence viewpoints being broadcast. These areas are entirely separate from those areas such as the general welfare of members of the Italian migrant community, which which FILEF is supposed to be dealing. The South Australian Government contributed $8,500 recently to FILEF for the purposes of its welfare activities. 
I think that followed on from 1975 when  Mr Hayden  made a contribution of $10,000. In respect to the operations of ethnic radio, particularly in South Australia, I mention quickly that it is a shame that the recent closing down of radio station 3ZZ completely confused the position with regard to the establishment of the new Ethnic Radio Commission. I am particularly pleased to see that occur- I am referring to the establishment of the new Radio Commission- and hope to take part in weeks to come in discussions with the Government as to how this Commission may be set up. I believe we ought to have a great deal of regard to local communities and their activities, to their wishes as to how these programs ought to be established and the way in which these advisory committees in the various States ought to be established so as to ensure that we have a thoroughly, truly representative community viewpoint being expressed over ethnic radio on behalf of the ethnic communities. That is as true of South Australia as it is of the already established radio stations in the other States. There certainly is a problem in this regard in respect of the smaller cities merely because they have not at this stage become so highly developed as those stations which are already active in Sydney and Melbourne. Radio stations 2EA and 3EA have been operating for some time. Consequently the closure of station 3ZZ, which was an access station as distinct from an ethnic station, really has confused the general impression of the Government's policy in respect of ethnic radio. Through the establishment of the new Ethnic Radio Commission it is the Government's intention to proceed with the continued development of ethnic radio, something which I support. 
Finally, with regard to refugees, I think that  Senator Mulvihill  mentioned that the Government ought to be contributing to a greater degree in this area. I refer to a news release by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in this regard which indicates that the Government announced recently a contribution of $lm to a special appeal by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to assist refugees in Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. No doubt this contribution will be gratefully received. It is hoped that it will contribute even more to the welfare of these people. I must take up the point that  Senator Mulvihill  made in regard to children and orphans in the northern part of Thailand who are ready for adoption by Australian families. Some extra attention by the Government is needed to ensure that these matters are properly carried through. It is with a great deal of pleasure that I support the Green Paper. I look forward to broader community discussions on it and hope that I will be able to contribute something to those discussions. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.48 to 8 p.m. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to a recent comment by the prominent  Australian Financial Review  columnist 'Chanticleer' which pointed to the possibility of insider trading by Australian Capital Territory residents in shares of companies subject to merger or take-over discussions with the Trade Practices Commission. While in no way insinuating any impropriety on the part of any person, will the Minister assure the Senate that there is no question of any doubt about the integrity of officers of any relevant departments or commissions in view of the fact that insider traders in the Australian Capital Territory are not presently subject to laws applying in this situation in other States? 
-Has the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs seen a public statement by the Premier of South Australia claiming a decrease of $9m in Commonwealth funds for South Australian Government works and housing? Is it a fact that actual revenue and loan funds for South Australia this year increased by $122m? Is this another example of the sort of cheap politicking in which the Government of South Australia has been involved since the Fraser Government's new federalism policy was announced? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the fear of prosecution on the part of citizen band radio operators who have paid their licence fees recently and who have received a receipt but not the actual licence. I understand that this is due to industrial bans by the relevant trade union on the issue of licences. Can the Minister assure such people that provided they can produce evidence of payment of the fee they will not suffer prosecution for not holding a licence? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. This most serious matter has been raised with me by a number of constituents in my State. The Minister will know of the introduction of Touchfone by Telecom Australia. Is the Minister aware that the order of numbers on pushbutton telephones, running from one to nine from top to bottom, is exactly the reverse of most calculating machines where the numbers run from bottom to top? In the interests of efficiency of operation and assistance to workers generally, will the Minister request Telecom to consider a re-arrangement of the numbers into proper form as already established by most calculators? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the South Australian Government recently made public statements to the effect that interest rates will be brought down, presumably by its own action, and claiming that the Federal Government refuses to do so? Further, has the South Australian Government also claimed that the Federal Government should expand its deficit so as to provide the States with more funds for State spending? Is it not a fact that the expansion of the federal deficit would force the Federal Government to borrow more funds from the public, thereby forcing up interest rates? Is this not yet another example of cheap headline grabbing by the South Australian Government in the course of a State election campaign, which is totally illogical, devoid of economic principle, and designed to confuse the South Australian people as to the real issues? 
First of all, I point out that I will confine my remarks to the Whyalla situation as I have had no opportunity personally to investigate the situation at Newcastle. I take issue with the Opposition in regard to Whyalla. In particular, I pick up the almost gloating attitude of  Senator Bishop  and the attitude that  Senator Sibraa  expressed just a few minutes ago. They made a great issue of the fact that somehow they have been able to trick certain Liberal senators into signing a letter to the effect that we will support the Opposition's motion. This is without taking into account any other issues that might have arisen since. My colleagues on this side of the House have a very real concern for the people of Whyalla. That is not necessarily to take the issues that are being presented to us by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Sibraa  in a simplistic way. Our approach, as  Senator Bishop  would well know, has been one of reservation towards the future of shipbuilding in Whyalla. In fact, he would know that, during the discussions that we held on the day before that letter was written, we expressed the view with the councillors of the city of Whyalla that there was no need to be outstandingly gloomy about the future of the city. 
One only has to look about to see that Whyalla produces the cheapest steel of any city in Australia. Consequently, one can see the potential for developing further the steel industry in Whyalla. Lo and behold, a few weeks ago after our visit to Whyalla I noticed that the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd gained an export order on the basis that Whyalla 's steel was cheaper than in any other place of manufacture. This only goes to show that what is required in Whyalla is a restructuring of the work force. Government policy, State and Federal, ought to be directed towards making sure that that is carried through in the most efficient manner. 
Let us look at the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to which  Senator Bishop  has so gloatingly referred. Let us take one or two points that I am afraid in the initial reading did not emerge but now, after considered reading, obviously are quite clear.  Senator Sibraa  referred to the point that the industry needs rationalisation. Certainly it does. If it does need rationalisation, why is it that we need to concentrate on continuing in operation in Australia both shipyards of such large size? We know too that the yards in Newcastle and Whyalla are devoted chiefly to the manufacture of ships of about 40,000 to 50,000 tons. We also know, if we are to take the defence argument, that there is no 'future for that sort of craft in terms of assisting the defence effort. We also know that there is declining emphasis from a commercial point of view. 
Back in 1971, the Tariff Board, the precursor of the Industries Assistance Commission, noted that even at that early stage the shipbuilding industry should be restructured towards an emphasis on smaller ships rather than on larger vessels such as those that are being built in Newcastle and particularly in Whyalla. Since then there has been no change. In fact the industry has continued to manufacture larger ships rather than smaller ones. I note that in the last IAC report released last year the IAC makes the point that smaller ships are the line of the future and that in fact the Australian shipbuilding industry ought to be concentrated in that area. When one again considers the defence aspect, one notes that today's demand in the naval sphere is not for huge dreadnoughts of 40,000 to 50,000 tons but is for light ships. I mention the recent purchase of two frigates overseas each weighing about 2,000 tons. These were significantly lighter craft than those which we are capable of manufacturing at Whyalla. 
The point has to be made that, no matter what happens, if we are to retain the Whyalla operations for building ships for defence and naval purposes obviously the industry there needs to be significantly restructured so that it is capable of building smaller vessels. If that is done, we will see some significant effects on the work force irrespective of what happens in regard to the large question whether we continue the yard in its present form. Therefore, the thrust of the policies that the Government is adopting and which BHP at Whyalla is adopting, is to place workers into other trades and to ensure that they are properly trained and skilled. In other words, the people of Whyalla are facing up to their problems quite courageously and are making sure that the city of Whyalla develops properly in economic terms. Its future obviously is not as gloomy as the Opposition seeks to paint it. 
I mention again the future of steel in Whyalla and the fact that it produces the cheapest steel made in Australia. That indicates to me a future which indeed is by no means gloomy. The report of the Committee refers to the fact that steps should be taken to ensure the retention of shipyards. Paragraph 7.86 of the report states: 
The Committee has concluded that, from the viewpoint of national security in the most serious of the postulated high level conflict scenarios, there would be a very real need for an ability to produce medium and large merchant ships - 
-This is paragraph 7.86. 
-Paragraph 7.86 of the report, under the heading 'Ship Construction' reads: 
The Committee has concluded that, from the viewpoint of national security in the most serious of the postulated high level conflict scenarios, there would be a very real need for an ability to produce medium and large merchant ships . . . 
Obviously the point at issue is whether or not this nation is going to be faced constantly with high level conflict scenarios. In no way can we assume - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I knew you would stand up on the side of justice in this matter. The point here is that there is no statement in this report which indicates that there should be the need to keep a shipbuilding industry which manufactures large ships for defence needs. The view of the Government, which of course has been based on detailed defence analyses that have since become available, is that there is not a likelihood that there will be a very great number of high level conflict scenarios. 
-Obviously the Government has well and truly taken that into account. Again may I make the point that  Senator Bishop  is trying to extract every little bit of political impact that he can out of the fact that he has some signatures of Liberal senators on a letter which has been subject to a reconsideration in the light of the full facts. It is clear to the people in this Senate chamber and those listening that the people on this side of the chamber have a definite interest in the people of Whyalla. They want to go about producing the things in Whyalla which are for the long term benefit of that city and which will ensure their security and employment for many years to come. 
-Senator McLaren would not understand anything but the point he is trying to make. I refer again to the need for a full consideration by the Federal Government of all the issues that are pertinent. We know that since the meeting of the South Australian senators in Whyalla, I think on 24 June last, a letter dated 15 August 1977 and signed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was sent to  Senator Jessop.  He has kindly allowed me to see a copy of it. I should just like to read the relevant paragraph which refers to the reasons for the decision that has been taken by the Government since the point at which we visited Whyalla. The paragraph states: 
I can now inform you that the Commonwealth has decided to endorse the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission not to vary the rates of assistance for shipbuilding, as payable under the legislation introduced by the previous Commonwealth Government. In coming to this position we have weighed most carefully the views put forward by the South Australian and New South Wales Governments and by other parties including in particular the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the union movement, and local government and other organisations and individuals in Whyalla and Newcastle . . . 
The point is that, like  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Davidson  on this side of the chamber, I was prepared to support that particular letter when it was written back in June of this year. But a decision having been made by the Government since then, it is clear that the factors envisaged in that letter have been taken into account in the final decision of the Government, which I now fully accept and support. Therefore, it is no longer relevant to consider the letter that  Senator Bishop  keeps reminding us of gloatingly in his normal way in order to gain political points. 
I close my remarks by making the point that this particular aspect has been well recognised now by the Mayor of Whyalla,  Mrs Ekblom.  In a public statement recently she stated that whereas she recognised that the Government had made its decision on this matter it was obviously now up to the city of Whyalla to involve itself in the retraining and restructuring of the work force so as to ensure that the future development of Whyalla is put on a sound basis for the people of that city. That is what the people on this side of the House would like to see happen and which I will certainly be striving to see occur in the period ahead. Clearly that is where the future of Whyalla lies. Unfortunately, it is not in the shipbuilding industry which has been very largely destroyed by Federal Labor Government policies and not supported by the State Labor Government in South Australia in the provision of special benefits such as rebates for payroll tax. We know that the Government of South Australia is very keen on saying: 'Look, we will provide payroll tax decentralisation benefits if you set up in Whyalla'. What is it doing about industries already established in Whyalla? The South Australian Government has done nothing to provide payroll tax rebates in order to assist the industries already established in that city. If a one per cent rebate on payroll tax were given, it would save BHP and its shipyard about Sim a year. But that has not been considered by the State Government. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister noted the reported estimate by W. D. Scott and Co. that inflation in Australia will fall to about 6'^ per cent this financial year, and that interest rates this week have fallen significantly? ls he aware that the British Trades Union Congress has agreed to Prime Minister Callaghan 's plan to limit pay claims to once a year? Would such a proposal if adopted in this country assist a further reduction in the rate of inflation and bring further beneficial moves in interest rates? In the light of the success of the Fraser Government's anti-inflation policy, will the Minister continue his best efforts to obtain agreement from the Australian Council of Trade 
Unions on moderation in wage claims along the lines of the United Kingdom agreement? 
-My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the scurrilous attack by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam on the Government's lack of concern for the plight of recently arrived migrants in this country? Is the Minister also aware that among this number there are many thousands of recently arrived refugees including some 12,000 Lebanese? Is the statement by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam an indication that the Australian Labor Party Opposition is opposed to the Fraser Government's humanitarian policy of settling in Australia thousands of homeless refugees from many parts of the world? 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he can advise when the task force report on small business finance will be available? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I draw the Minister's attention to an article in today's  Australian Financial Review  which indicates that the Government has decided on a special $100m youth employment scheme. Is he aware that the article claims that this expenditure, together with the new tax averaging scheme, will, in the words in the article, 'blow out the deficit and that the Government is clearly putting political considerations ahead of its attempts to control government spending'? Is it a fact that the Budget contains provision for substantially increased expenditure on employment schemes and that the tax averaging scheme will not reduce revenues until next financial year? Are the claims of the  Australian Financial  Review inaccurate and misleading? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the Treasurer's statement in the Budget Speech concerning tax avoidance legislation. When will the Government announce details of proposed changes to the income tax law envisaged by the statement? 
-One thing I have learnt after some 22 months in the Senate is that the credibility of the Labor Opposition works in direct inverse proportion to the level of decibels that emanates from  Senator Walsh  in regard to economic matters. The degree of desperation that the Opposition is demonstrating today in its attempt to make some sort of case on the Government's economic progress is absolutely pitiful and pathetic. 
Let us look at some of the root causes of the economic troubles that beset this country until the election of the Liberal-National Country Party Government in December 1975. These things need to be said again because they are at the root of the trouble that has beset the nation since then. We saw the revaluations of the Australian dollar in 1973 and 1974, followed by a huge devaluation. We saw the problems caused by the 25 per cent cut in the tariff rate which was made without any warning and right across the board- for all imported goods. We saw the huge wage explosion mat was positively encouraged by the Whitlam Government during 1974, when wages rose by 30 per cent in one year and so priced Australian industries out of business that imports flooded into the country and, consequently, displaced the 360,000 workers who were unemployed when this Government came to office in December 1975. 
In 1975 the total number unemployed was something like 361,000, if we include people employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme. Honourable senators opposite argue that they should not be included. The figure today is 334,000- a fall of 24,000 compared with the previous figure. That is not the real point. The real point is that since this Government came to office 122,000 new jobs have been created. In fact, there has been an increase of 2 per cent in the work force in that period. These are the demonstrable facts that compare with those of the period immediately preceding the election when, under the Labor Government, the actual number of jobs in the work force declined. 
It is true. During the term of the Labor Government the rate of inflation in the 1975 financial year was approximately 18 per cent. Despite what  Senator Walsh  says about the rate of inflation, as measured by his many different and mystifying indices, the fact is that inflation is falling. The business community knows it and is telling us about it. Business people are corresponding with me and telling me about it. They are very grateful that these things are occurring. They know now that stability is gradually returning and that now they can start to plan on a real future. 
-Senator McLaren is a great talker. We will come to that shortly. The September 1977 issue of the Australian Industries Development Association publication in its conclusions upon economic circumstances in Australia today said: 
In the circumstances which now clearly support it, AIDA is forced to reiterate its view that the escape from the 1973-74 economic management mess will take considerably longer than the small number of months is took originally to make that mess, especially under the strategy now being consistently employed. 
The point is that we are on the way to recovering from the situation that was created by the previous Labor Administration. 
-Senator McLaren can spout on about the South Australian election last week. If there was anything like a disaster for the Labor Party, it was that election result on Saturday. There was a very small swing that took the Labor Party back to the situation it was in in 1973. 
-The Labor Party picked up two senate and had five seats handed to it on a platter in a redistribution.  Senator McLaren  ought to be ashamed of himself.  Mr President,  I am sorry for digressing from the subject, but  Senator McLaren  provokes me. Let us look at some of the factors affecting confidence in the community at the moment. Of course we know that the Labor Party's object is to destroy stability in this community so as to undermine confidence in the Government and hopefully bring an election in its favour. That is all that it is on about. Let us look at some of the confidence factors that are emerging. In the Budget Papers, on page 17 of Statement No. 2, we read that quite contrary to the view expressed by  Senator Wriedt  here earlier today when he indicated that savings were going up as a proportion of income, in fact since June 1976, when people were putting away 14.1 per cent of their incomes the figure has come down to 12.4 per cent and people are saving less. They are spending more. 
Let us compare that with the period when Labor was in power. In June 1974 the savings ratio was 15.3 per cent. In June 1975 it reached 16.4 per cent during the term of office of the Labor Party. That shows how scared people were under the Labor Administration and how confident they are under today's Administration, when they are prepared to spend more on consumer goods. What does business say today about its outlook for the future? I happened to be in the Parliamentary Library yesterday and I picked up the latest edition of  Rydge's  magazine. 
Just a moment,  Senator Walsh.  We will come to that in a moment. We find from the September 1977 edition that  Rydge's  has published as it does periodically, a survey conducted by an independent firm, McNair Anderson Associates Pty Ltd. It asked major businesses in Australia about their future outlook. What did  Rydge's  say about the latest survey? I will quote just the opening paragraphs. It states: 
More than 70 per cent of Australia's top companies expect an increase in their sales in volume terms (as distinct from dollars sales) in the next 12 months, according to the latest Rydge 's-McNair Anderson Business Predicter survey conducted among 77 of Australia 's 200 largest companies. 
-Does that indicate a lack of confidence in the Government's policies? 
-Of course not. It indicates- 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I thank you for bringing that matter to my attention. As you would know,  Senator McLaren  is being extremely provocative for obvious political reasons in South Australia. I have just explained to the Senate that in fact Australia's business leaders see a big future for them in the coming year. This has been stated quite clearly in  Rydge's  magazine. I would advise  Senator McLaren  and others on the Opposition benches to look at the article in  Rydge's  this week. They might learn a lot. I also indicate that the thrust of the Government's policy is to seek to reduce interest rates and to reduce taxation so as to reestablish incentive as the major factor in the economy which will lead to recovery. Of course we have Laurel and Hardy, Messrs Whitlam and Hayden, occasionally giving us the benefit of their economic wisdom. 
It is nothing compared with what  Senator Walsh  has been saying. 

 -Mr President, I withdraw those remarks. I refer to the triumviratethe Whitlam-Hayden-Hurford economic teamthat brought us the brilliant years from 1973-75 and now wants to impose something like that upon us again. 
I believe he was one of the chief advisers. Please let me not be diverted. It is important to recognise that those three gentlemen have been imploring us to expand the deficit. Their big plan for the salvation of the country is to spend another $ 1,000m and to expand the deficit. What sort of a brilliant solution is that? Where do they think the money will come from for that? Will they print more of it and thereby inflate the currency again? Is that what they want? I hear that perhaps they do. The alternative to that is to borrow from the community. If the Government borrows from the community, what will follow immediately is that interest rates will only rise again because there is only so much money in the community. It means that the Government will be taking money out of the hands of the private sector away from home builders and buyers and away from people who want to buy cars and other consumer goods and so force up interest rates again. No doubt that is what the Labor Opposition is seeking to do. It wants to make it harder for people to own houses and to buy consumer goods. Obviously it does not like people having their own assets. 
-That is the logic to which Labor's policy leads honourable senators opposite. I will finish my brief remarks. I would like to have a lot more time to uncover fully  Senator McLaren  and his friends on the opposite side with their so-called economic policies. I come again to the South Australian scene. I will quote from the  Sunday Mail  of last Sunday an article which was attributed to Professor Richard Blandy, whom we know as the editor of the  Australian Bulletin of Labor  from the Flinders University. He also happens to be head of the Workers Democracy Unit in the State Government in South Australia, as is well known, and consequently he advises the Premier of that State. What does he say about the economic future for the next 12 months? This is the learned man who is obviously advising the Premier of South Australia as to his economic policy. I will quote the last few paragraphs of an article in the  Sunday Mail.  It states: 
Another result of the rationalisation of industry would be that the cost of manufactured goods is likely to go down. 
Professor Blandy is not an economic gloom merchant when it comes to the short term future, stating that 'within the next 12 months the ground work will have been laid for a resumption of normal growth. 
Come next Federal budget the prospects for a resumption of normal growth for the Australian economy are extremely favourable, 'he said. 
That was said by the adviser to the Premier of South Australia who, during the election campaign over the last three or four weeks, decried the Federal Government's policies. Of course, he did not bother to release this sort of information until after the election, as we have now realised. 
-Senator McLaren knows how the media operates in South Australia and how it is controlled by the Dunstan regime. Obviously these points need to be made as I am being provoked by  Senator McLaren  for purely political purposes. I conclude by expressing my confidence in the Government and the way in which it is conducting our economic affairs, and by rejecting out of hand this urgency motion. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will be aware that there are no Russian language social security information pamphlets available through the Department of Social Security. In the light of the significant size of the Russian community in Australia, particularly in Adelaide, and the fact that numerically it approximates the size of other communities already catered for by the Department, can the Minister indicate whether an early remedy to this problem is contemplated? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  stating that the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  is claiming that the Federal Government had reduced spending on further education and that the South Australian Government has been forced to carry the extra load? Is it a fact that the Federal Government has increased spending in the technical and further education area this year and has also provided much more revenue for South Australia under the new federalism arrangements so that the State Government should provide more from its own resources to be spent according to its own order of education priorities? 
It was very interesting to listen to  Senator Ryan.  I was thinking that she really sounded like a female version of  Senator Walsh  except that the extension into the areas of hyperbole was even a little further than  Senator Walsh  would venture at times. It is quite clear that  Senator Ryan  picked up many issues which she deems to be important without getting onto the real theme of the Budget which is aimed at the very casual things which have brought about the circumstances which she seeks to redress. Perhaps I could examine one or two things which the Budget is doing economically in this country at the moment.  Senator Ryan  claimed that the Budget is a failure, and yet we have observed that it has continued the same strategy which has successfully brought inflation down from 18 per cent in Labor's last year of office to somewhere around 9 per cent or 10 per cent at the moment. Unemployment was at the level of 360,000 in December 1975 and today it is of the order of 324,000. As for rising unemployment, there is indeed no evidence of that. In fact, in the two years since this Government came to power 120,000 jobs have been created in the private sector. 
It is pretty clear that the Opposition can feel the wounds of the success of the Fraser Government's policies when it reacts in such a way that it becomes totally unreasonable and unable to see the truth. In fact, Opposition senators would know if they had read this month's edition of  Rydge's  that businessmen see great success for business in the year ahead as a result of the Government's courageous policies in reducing inflation and getting costs in this country under control in such a way that we are able again to compete with overseas nations. The only way in which we are going to get people back to work is by creating jobs, not by paying unemployment benefits. Costs to business have to be brought down and taxes on business have to be brought down so that it can again start employing people. 
Let us look at some of the areas of concern in the community at the moment. I should like to return to my familiar theme on small business. That area is one which, during the Labor Government's period of office, suffered extensively at the hands of the Hayden Budget in 1 975 and the Cairns and Crean Budgets before that. The imposition of very heavy taxation during that period led to bankruptcies of great proportions in the small business area. 

 Senator Walters- Mr President, I raise a point of order.  Senator Georges  is interjecting out of his place. 
-Over the last few years small business has been afflicted by one major cause of its financial troubles; that is, the effect of inflation. What has happened effectively is that, because of inflation, businessmen have found it more and more difficult to keep the same volume of goods on their shelves. They have found it more and more difficult to update their plants into the modern era and consequently their efficiency has fallen. In the last year or so there has been a remarkable resurgence in the position of small business brought about, of course, by the major changes in the Budget of 1976. That Budget introduced the 60 per cent retention allowance in respect of Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The 40 per cent investment allowance was also introduced in that financial year. That has made a significant difference and has led to a major resurgence of investment in this country in the last financial year. By the way, that resurgence was of the order of 9 per cent in real terms in the last financial year. 
The most important change that has occurred in the tax area in the last year is the trading stock valuation adjustment, which in fact has brought tremendous benefit to small companies in the community. As I said, it has provided the opportunity for businessmen to restock their shelves because they have been able to conserve more capital for their businesses out of their own earnings. Previously, due to inflation and the rampant taxes imposed by the previous Government, taxation on those sorts of profits was being channelled into the resources of the Commonwealth and business was not able to keep capital and build upon itself. In the last financial year there has been a tremendous change in that area. In fact, I have had contact in the last week or so with accountants and business people in Adelaide who have been amazed at the generosity of the Fraser Government in respect of the trading stock valuation adjustment. It has given them significant tax savings which they did not anticipate until they actually got down to compiling their taxation returns for this financial year. We have also seen the results with larger companies which have received the same sorts of benefits. 

 Senator Ryan made the point that profits is in some way a dirty word. In fact, during its period in office Labor made sure that that was so. Profits fell from something like 15 per cent of gross national product to something like 10 per cent or 1 1 per cent in 1974-75. In real terms profits were negative when those sorts of adjustments were taken into account. What business, small or large, is going to invest in new products and techniques and employ more people unless it can see a return at the end of the year? Obviously no business will do that, and that was one of the fundamental reasons for the creation of 360,000 unemployed in this country by the Labor Government. 
-Senator McLaren provoked me greatly on the last occasion on which I spoke on this matter. I do not intend to be provoked again by him. On the question of unemployment, it is pretty obvious that members of the Labor Opposition enjoy dancing on the graves of the unemployed. In fact, they take every opportunity to create a lack of confidence in the community in order to put more people on to the dole queues. Statements have emanated from the shadow Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  concerning the exchange rate, and that is typical of the Labor Party's approach. But there is only one way in which we are going to solve the unemployment problem and that is by making sure that jobs are created by existing businesses. The Fraser Government is determined to do that and the things it has done in respect of taxation reform and other measures are aimed in that direction.  Senator Ryan  said that we concerned ourselves too much with the deficit and not enough with putting people back to work. She failed to recognise that the dollar which increases the deficit has to be found somewhere within the community. It has to be raised either by taxation or by way of borrowing from the community. If it is borrowed from the community it has to be paid for by way of interest rates, and in doing that competition is created against the other people in the community who are competing for funds and interest rates are driven up even higher. 
Does  Senator McLaren  want interest rates in the community to be higher? He does not answer that. Perhaps  Senator Ryan  does, but that is the logic of the sort of statements that emanate from Opposition senators. They want higher interest rates in the community. They want to make it harder for people to buy houses. They want to make it harder for people to buy consumer goods. That is the logical end of their philosophy, of their statements concerning the expansion of the deficit. That is the only solution they have to offer. I am sorry, that is not quite accurate. In fact there are many different solutions that members of the Opposition have put forward. Some have come from the Perth conference of the Australian Labor Party, some from the two shadow Treasurers who face us, and some from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  One can never work out where they come from. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report in this morning's  Australian  in which  Mr George  Polites, Director of the Australian Council of Employers Federation, is reported as saying that the rate of unemployment amongst young people aged between 15 and 19 years increased from 3.7 per cent to almost 15 per cent between 1964 and 1976? Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps have been taken by the Government in recent months to reduce the high rate of youth unemployment and to increase the motivation and self" confidence of those young people who have been out of work for extended periods? 
Last night I commenced to speak about the Budget Papers and I was interrupted at the point at which I was discussing the problems of small businesses and outlining the steps that have been taken to assist them by the Fraser Government since coming to power. I mentioned at that time Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which has been one of the bones of contention in respect of small companies over a long period of time. I also mentioned that in the 1976 Budget the Fraser Government increased the retention allowance from 50 per cent of after tax profits to 60 per cent. I believe that is extremely welcome to small businesses within the community as it does in fact assist them to keep more of their earnings for investment in new developments and in making sure that their plant is kept up to date and also so that they can expand the stocks on their shelves. It is very important to recognise that factor. 
The real problem of small businesses during and since the Labor Government's period of office is that they have been unable to retain earnings in order to provide for their own development. That has been because of the impact of taxation calculated artificially on profits that are themselves calculated according to artificial principles. Real sums of money are going out of the control of these businesses and to the Taxation Office because of inflation, thereby reducing the capacity of businesses to remain viable. The Fraser Government, recognising that in respect of Division 7, has taken a very sound step forward. In other areas we have also seen major steps forward in both the 1976 Budget and this Budget. In 1976 we saw the introduction of the trading stock valuation adjustment, which has added significantly to the benefits of small business. That in effect provides that people correct as to SO per cent the artificial calculation of profit that has been applying for some time. That means that less tax is paid out. Consequently more money is retained in the business for expansion and to keep stock on the shelves, which is a very important recognition of that accounting principle. 
Secondly, the introduction of the investment allowance has proved worthwhile in the reduction of the cost of new assets and is in fact, if you like, in the case of a small company a reduction in the cost of new assets to the extent of 18 per cent. That is to say, that new plant purchased by businesses is in effect discounted to the extent of 1 8 per cent. Furthermore in the case of unincorporated businesses, we have seen introduction of personal tax indexation from 1 July 1976. In effect this has provided for tax cuts of the order of 1 3 per cent in 1 976 and a further 1 1 per cent in 1977. In those ways considerable assistance has been provided to small businesses to allow them to remain more viable and to increase their development. Those things generally have not impinged directly upon most small businesses, mainly because of the lags that occur because companies, small or otherwise, do not have to pay their taxation for many months after the end of a financial year for which they lodge their returns. The first financial year in that regard has only just concluded. That is the year ended 30 June 1977. Most small businesses and companies will be paying their taxation in February, March or April of 1978 and will be then recognising the great benefits that have arisen through the introduction of these measures by the Fraser Government. 
All in all those amounts will raise the savings on income tax by businesses and individuals by some $2,000m. That is a very significant reform. But those things occurred chiefly in the 1976 Budget. In the 1977 Budget the Fraser Government has proceeded even further with dramatic reforms in respect of income tax. We find in the Budget which we are now discussing, the introduction of the radical new standard tax system. A basic rate of tax of 32 per cent has been introduced. It has been represented by the Opposition-quite falsely, of course- that that 32 per cent rate applies to all incomes up to $ 1 6,000. Of course, it needs to be made clear to everybody that the first $3,750 of taxable income is not subject to tax. Consequently people who are earning a taxable income of, say, $8,000 and who are single will find that their average rate of tax will be only 17 per cent. This has reduced the impact of taxation on those people by one-third, which is a significant reform. Because of the introduction of the new scheme even people on an income of $ 1 6,000 will pay an average rate of tax of only about 24 per cent, compared with something in excess of 30 per cent that they paid previously. These reforms are significant reforms. They will dramatically change the face of the taxation system in the years to come. 
It is indeed, which the Leader of the Opposition should well recognise. The issue before us in respect of taxation is that this reform is going to be of benefit to some 90 per cent of the taxpayers in the community. Consequently it is not a reform designed merely to help the rich; it will help 90 per cent of the taxpayers in the community. It is well recognised that on incomes between $16,000 and $32,000 there will be a surcharge of 14 per cent on top of the 32 per cent. That is in line with the Government's well recognised principle that those who are able to afford it will contribute relatively more to the community. On incomes above $32,000 there will be a further surcharge of 14 percent. 
But all in all, the maximum rate of tax that will be charged is only 60 per cent, which is 5 per cent less than the maximum rate charged under the previous Hayden scales. Because of that reduction we find that, instead of the 65 per cent maximum rate applying at $24,000 of income, the new maximum rate applies at $32,000 of income. That will assist many small businesses to retain more after-tax earnings in their businesses for use in keeping stocks on their shelves and buying new plant. That is a significant step forward. Certainly it will assist taxpayers who are in the position of having to pay provisional tax. It will relieve the cash drain on their businesses when tax time comes. I congratulate the Fraser Government on taking those intiatives. We will feel the benefits of them as from 1 February 1978. 
Let me mention one or two other aspects of the Fraser Government's Budget this year. I refer particularly to the question of industry generally. Over the last three or four years we have seen a downturn in the manufacturing sector in particular. Of course, this has been well canvassed in the past. It has been due to irresponsible Labor Government management in the areas of the value of the Australia dollar, the outrageous cost increases imposed on businesses and the introdution of the 25 per cent tariff cut in 1973. These things have affected businesses to such an extent that we need some major changes in the structure of Australian industry in order to get ready for the next upswing. I am pleased to see that the Government is thinking in these terms. Before the Budget came down it introduced a White Paper on manufacturing industry which is the blueprint for the future of Australia's industry. It is very heartening to recognise the value of that to industry leaders these days and to recognise that they are making favourable comments upon it as they think more deeply about the issues involved. 
In that context, the situation in my State of South Australia is worth noting. Industry in that State is very highly oriented towards consumer durables- chiefly motor vehicles and household appliances. Those areas have been under a great deal of pressure from imported goods over the last five years or so, and consequently perhaps they need some special consideration. It is interesting to note that the changes in those industries will have major effects upon the distribution of labour in South Australia and, consequently, emphasis needs to be given to the development of skills and the retraining of people who previously were occupied in other jobs, suiting them more particularly for new jobs in the community. 
I notice that the State Government of South Australia perhaps is prepared to consider a rundown of the motor vehicle industry in that State and is prepared to act more directly and to retrain people for placement in other areas. In this context, I quote from a transcript of evidence given at an Industries Assistance Commission hearing on motor vehicles by  Mr Barry  Earl Orr, who is Assistant Director of the Planning and Research Division of the South Australian Department of Economic Development.  Mr Conran,  one of the commissioners, asked: 
The only question I have got relates to the second sentence in the concluding statement, where you say: 'In the present economic climate and in the absence of a fully functioning program of structural adjustment assistance, a significant decline in employment in this industry - meaning the motor vehicle industry- is totally unacceptable. ' 
Does that imply that if there were to be a program of structural adjustment assistance the South Australian government would be prepared to contemplate a run-down in employment in the motor industry in its State? 

 Mr Orr replied: 
I think I would have to say ' Yes '. I can 't commit the South Australian Government, but that is the implication. 
The point is that, even though some of the statements emanating from the State Government of South Australia are to the contrary,  Mr Orr,  one of the chief advisers to the State Government in South Australia, recognises that there may be some need to rationalise industry in that State. In fact, I am rather amazed to have found this item because it highlights the fact that, contrary to all previous opinions, the South Australian Government in effect is contemplating the rundown of industry as it currently is organised in South Australia. I would like to hear from the South Australian Government eventually about whether it means to apply those principles to other sectors of South Australian industry. I believe that they tend to run contrary to the general understanding of businessmen in that State as to the future development of industry in South Australia. Indeed, it is a most disturbing factor. I hope that the South Australian Government will be prepared to make some statement on that in the near future. 
The final area I should like to canvass briefly concerns the Schools Commission report which was handed down a few days after the introduction of the Budget in August. There are two main areas that are pf concern to people in my State and certainly of concern to me. First of all, a rather significant campaign has been run by people with political interests along the lines that the Government's setting down of guidelines for the Schools Commission in some way interferes with the independence of the Schools Commission. I fail to see that the Government's setting of the broad areas and parameters by which the Schools Commission can consider the guidelines for determining the expenditure on education is interfering in any way with the Commission, when it is known that only a certain amount of money is available in the coffers to meet the commitments. It has been stated that somehow this is imposing political controls upon the Schools Commission and, in effect, is transferring the political liability from the Government to the Schools Commission. Nothing could be further from the truth, because it is quite obvious that the Government will still bear the responsibility for whatever decision it makes in regard to the total amount of money spent on education. So, I believe that argument to be entirely specious. Certainly it has no regard for the actualities of the situation. 
 My next point concerns independent schools. There has been a great deal of discussion in connection with the amount set aside for classes 1 and 2 in the independent schools area. In my State for some years the State Government has been making contributions to schools in categories 1 and 2 which have been greater than the amount set aside under the previous guidelines given to the Schools Commission. In fact, the steps which the Federal Government has taken in this regard have been adopted already by the Labor Government in South Australia, thereby ensuring that, in effect, the Federal Government is matching those grants. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I feel totally inadequate in standing to speak on this report in view of the fact that you are in the chair having occupied the chairmanship of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts for so many years during this inquiry. The Minister for Social 
Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is present in the chamber as well. 
-I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has the Minister been informed by the New South Wales Minister for Local Government of the distribution of Federal funds to New South Wales local councils as determined by the New South Wales Local Government Grants Commission? Has the Minister certified that New South Wales determinations are in accordance with relevant Commonwealth legislation? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the overall picture for local government grants to New South Wales for supplementary revenue in the context of the Government's commitment to the new federalism? 
-I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen the speech of  Mr Dunstan,  the South Australian Premier, when introducing the South Australian Government's Budget last Thursday, in which he claimed that the Federal Budget predicates an inflation rate this year of some 12 per cent? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Dunstan  bases this claim on the statement in the Federal Budget that award wage growth will be 10.5 per cent and that the Treasury assumes that partial wage indexation will occur this year? Is it a fact that the 10.5 per cent increase in award wages represents a significantly lower rate of increase in total actual wages? By  Mr Dunstan  's logic, does this indicate a far lower rate of inflation this financial year than 12 per cent? Is this supported by recent statements by W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd and Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd? Is this further evidence of the continual flow of deliberately misleading statements emanating from  Mr Dunstan  for cheap political purposes? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the 165th report. I seek leave to make a statement. 
-I bring up the report from Estimates Committee B on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report, excluding the appendix, be printed. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a news report yesterday that a significant number of unemployed main breadwinners had part time jobs. Are persons in part time work eligible for the receipt of unemployment benefit? If not, has the Minister's Department evidence of such ineligible persons receiving unemployment benefit? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer. Following the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of power workers in the La Trobe Valley, and the possibility of further industrial action, which would inevitably cause widespread disruption to industry and commerce throughout Australia, will the Minister take action to ensure that special arrangements are made for the provision through the banking system of adequate carry on funds for hard pressed businesses that are adversely affected by that action? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer to the concern expressed in the Press, and rumours circulating among small businessmen, accountants and lawyers relating to the introduction of tax avoidance legislation. I ask: Can the Minister say when a statement will be made or the legislation referred to in the Budget, introduced? 
I take the opportunity firstly to answer one or two points raised by  Senator McAuliffe  and in particular to mention the matter that he dealt with at the conclusion of his speech in regard to the trade union movement because I do not think there is any man in this Parliament who would not appreciate the great work done by the average person in the trade union movement over a long period of time to improve the working conditions of all. The point is that the trade union movement is under the domination of the left wing demagogues throughout the community who are seeking to impose political judgments on the things that are being done in the interests of people generally. We look at the situation as it arises today in Victoria and we do not have to develop that argument any further to understand the point I am trying to make. 
We are all concerned with increasing the size of the cake and that is, I think, the object that  Senator McAuliffe  seeks. He makes the point that there was an increase of some 2 per cent in the share of the gross national product last year going to profits. Sure, that probably did occur. I have not got the figures in front of me, but clearly that was something which had to be done in the light of the destruction of business undertaken by the Whitlam Government up to 1975 and in fact the share of the gross national product going to profits in 1975 reduced from something like 15 per cent to about 10 per cent and in fact we are now restructuring that picture so as to provide confidence for the businessmen and so that they will move on and create more jobs. 
Let me turn to one other matter I would like to mention tonight in respect of the oilseeds legislation. We are entitled on the motion that a money Bill be read a first time to raise subjects other than that which is directly connected with the Bill. I want to refer to the matter which  Senator Baume  raised earlier this evening in regard to AUS Student Travel. Indeed I think Parliament should be indebted to  Senator Baume  for the research that he has undertaken in that regard, to seek out the facts and figures that he has and to bring them to the attention of the Parliament and the people generally. It is pretty clear that something absolutely catastrophic occurred to AUS Travel in the last years of its operations. It appears from the figures- I was following  Senator Baume  's speech- that AUS Travel, in the period from 1 April 1976 until the time of its liquidation, lost something of the order of $2m and this contributed quite obviously to the huge debt it now owes to seven international airlines totalling some $3.1m. Yet the feasibility study which  Senator Baume  brought to our attention very clearly through his very sharp analysis of the problems demonstrated that there is no way AUS Travel could trade itself out of trouble and repay that debt within five years. In fact, I am in possession of a letter which demonstrates this point very clearly. I will quote from a letter addressed to Qantas Airways Ltd from the Australian Federation of Travel Agents. I quote one paragraph, which reads: 
We are informed that the Victorian Supreme Court has approved a scheme of arrangement which enables the Student Travel Service to resume trading, the objective being to attempt to trade out of a loss amounting to $3.1m plus interest over a period of five years. This will entail achieving a minimum average annual profit of $775,000 even if the tax position in the fifth year is ignored. 
Later in the letter the point is made quite clearly that this cannot possibly be done under the normal legal trading arrangements to which a normal travel service is subject. 
-I will be quite happy to table the document at the end of my speech. Honourable senators should bear in mind- this was the point made in this letter-that the AUS Travel Service will find it impossible to trade out of this situation under normal trading conditions. That is the key to the situation. Why did AUS Travel come into being? It seems to me because of the political activities of the AUS that it is a carrot to tempt students to become members of AUS under compulsory circumstances. We all know that there is a compulsory levy of $2.50 per head in respect of the contributions to the AUS by students on campuses throughout Australia. It is a compulsory levy that the ordinary student cannot opt out of. 
Cases are going forward around Australia today by individual students seeking to obtain relief from that levy. One student in Adelaide, a very brave young man,  Mr Nick  Xenophou has undertaken to seek an injunction to stop the payment of $8,000 in total fees to AUS which has been deducted from students' fees by the Adelaide University and paid through the Adelaide University Students Association. Students who are brave enough and concerned enough to stand up for their rights in this matter regard several of the activities which the AUS undertakes as being ultra vires its own constitution. Clearly, the AUS is operating outside its charter. Object (a) of the Australian Union of Students says that it is to represent students of Australia internationally in matters of concern to students and to establish and maintain cooperation between tertiary institutions in all countries. Other objectives are to assist the educational, social and cultural- not political- activities of students. It seeks to defend the right to education. This is something with which we should all agree. It seeks to defend the right to conduct a free Press. That refers, of course, to the Press on campuses. It seeks to defend the rights of people to assemble in all places. Everyone agrees with these sorts of objectives. But the students who are taking action against AUS are obviously not interested in seeing their funds and the efforts of AUS go towards political activities. 
-Senator Georges challenges the fact that political activity goes on. I have one or two examples from the current budget of AUS for this financial year which may indicate some of the directions to which funds are being put by the Australian Union of Students. Irrespective of one's political viewpoint and one's sympathies one way or another, if an organisation is formed for the purposes which are stated in its constitution it ought to adhere to them especially where there is compulsory membership- the condition under which students become members of the AUS. I do not necessarily disagree with some of the political directions which AUS on occasions may have taken. Many students would agree with some of the things that are done but a number of students disagree with the things AUS has done. I refer to a few cases. In the budget of AUS this year $1,500 is being directed to the Democratic Republic of East Timor. A further $1,000 is going to the Democratic Republic of East Timor for the purpose of paying rent for buildings and facilities; $ 1,000 is going to the East Timor campaign; $500 is going to the Pacific People's Action Front; $3,000 is going to the Antiapartheid Campaign; $500 is going to the Squatter's Campaign in Melbourne; $1,00 is going to the Palestine Liberation Organisation; $500 is going to the Stop Omega Campaign; and $1,350 is going to various anti-uranium groups throughout the States. 
Some of the political activities of AUS may not cross the interests of most members of the association but the issue of complusion in paying a fee to the Australian Union of Students raises a big problem. I commend to honourable senators the people who are undertaking actions against the various bodies collecting these fees. I bring to the attention of the Senate the case of  Mr Nick  Xenophou in Adelaide who is a well-known Adelaide personality on campus. Two years ago he was elected as the editor of the  OnDit  magazine circulating on the Adelaide University campus. He is an independent person who ran a cam- paign without any physical organisation behind h im. Since he has taken legal action against AUS seeking an injunction against the deduction of the levy from his fees collected by the Adelaide University he has been denied access to his telephone in the office in which he puts out the newspaper. He has been harrassed by various on-campus groups opposed to the independent views he has. He has found himself the subject of a referendum campaign to seek his removal from office. The result of that referendum was known last week. He was not defeated. In fact, he won very narrowly by ten votes in a very high poll held on the campus. 
-These issues are of widespread concern to a large number of independent students in the community who do not wish to see their funds used for political purposes. I see from the  Australian  yesterday that further evidence of this has become available. There has been a mass desertion of AUS by students at the New South Wales Institute of Technology. This has reduced the fees which would otherwise have gone to AUS by some $7,000. Obviously those students- there are 7,000 of them- are concerned at the way in which AUS is directing the funds which it has forcibly taken from them and used for political purposes. Obviously, these people will do something about their condition. 
I return to some of the matters that  Senator Baume  mentioned. He said that the AUS Travel Service had been mismanaged. I have evidence that it is quite possible and highly probable that the telex, telephone and other office facilities belonging to the AUS Travel Service have been used by the Australian Union of Students for its activities, including political activities. I have a letter dated 27 February 1976.I ask honourable senators to note that date. It is three months after the election in 1975. It is signed by Margaret Osman, the office manager of the South Australian Union of Students. It is addressed to the  President  of the Association. The first paragraph reads: 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Executive that, during my absence on annual leave, an account for $2,128.51 was incurred by people connected with the ALP election campaign. 
The second paragraph reads: 
Despite repeated attempts on my part to make some satisfactory arrangements regarding the collection of this amount, to date no money has been received. 
I am not asserting that that account was not in fact paid. Indeed, I have reason to believe that it probably was paid. The point is that by undertaking that activity the Australian Labor Party was able to avoid sales tax in respect of that printing and stationery because the AUS is in fact a sales tax exempt company. One wonders whether there was some positive move to save money through the use of this activity. I make the point that the AUS Travel Service is the body which is in fact incurring these costs. Indeed, it seems to me that unless they are properly accounted for in respect of the AUS itself and the charges are raised properly by the AUS Travel Service they would have contributed to the losses that the AUS Travel Service has suffered and that have lead to a great deal of hardship and concern on the part of a great number of people. 
There are other matters that I would like to mention in that regard. There is a Telex which I understand was sent on a Telex machine owned by the AUS Travel Service and which was addressed to  Mr Phil  Jackson, the National Secretary of the AUS. It asks  Mr Jackson  to send details of publication debit notes- these are numbered- 'for $70 and $47 as requested on 1 1 / 12/74 quickly as they are needed so that we can fiddle our funds'. The Telex is signed by Rob Bray for  Mrs Osman-  the same  Mrs Osman  we spoke of earlier in respect of the AUS office in Adelaide. I believe that these sorts of matters are of a great deal of importance and interest to students, who must require the AUS and the AUS Travel Service thoroughly to investigate them. For that reason I support wholeheartedly the point that  Senator Baume  has been making that we need a thorough-going investigation of the AUS Travel Service to ascertain the reason why the AUS Travel Service became insolvent, as has been indicated, and why it is going to find it extremely difficult to come back into business as a result of its latest scheme of arrangement. 
I believe that the central issue in this whole matter is that the ordinary student must know where the funds that he is contributing to his organisation are going to end up. Under the present arrangements, with the political distributions and the obvious political control of the AUS, there is no guarantee that that can happen. That is a most dangerous situation in which to place any person who is a member of any organisation. I support wholeheartedly those students who are taking action in respect of seeing that their funds are handled by a properly managed association. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in his capacity as the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: Will the indicated lower rate of inflation this year, which some commentators estimate to be of the order of 8 per cent or less, substantially assist the finances of the States in real terms this financial year? 
It is a shame that such emotional tones have entered the debate today but I suppose it was to be expected that Opposition supporters would react in the manner that they have reacted today rather than sitting down and properly assessing the issues before us in this legislation. In fact, it is pretty clear from the things that have been said that very little regard has been had for the actual statements which are clearly made in the legislation. We have to recognise that laws of any description that are passed through this Parliament must reflect the current conditions in the community. That is what the Parliament is all about. We are here to make laws on behalf of the people in such a way that justice not only is done but is seen to be done, and certainly in the circumstances that we see before us to-day generally throughout the community we have an understanding of the changing nature of industrial disputation in this country. 
No longer are mass strikes held across the country or one whole union going out. Rather, it is the development of guerrilla style tactics at the shop floor level within organisations which are disrupting extensive areas of the economy and of the community generally, bringing hardship to all sorts of people who are not involved at all in the dispute in question. People are being affected by issues far beyond their personal control and in that way those stricken are destroying the operations of the nation. Of course, at this very time we cannot afford these sorts of disputations which are becoming increasingly apparent in the community at a critical time of economic recovery. I believe that this legislation strikes at the very core of the problem in that the growing number of individuals in strategic situations within industry can now be dealt with under it. In that way this Parliament and this Government are reflecting the needs and the wishes of the community and are ensuring that justice is seen to be done. 
There are a number of key issues that I would like to discuss today. The main one, in my mind, is the emphasis given to individual rights. It is not good enough for honourable senators opposite to say that unions must remain solid in all situations and in fact that membership of unions means that we all become mates headed in the same direction. The fact is that the unions themselves are undertaking activities outside the wishes of vast numbers of people who are members of those unions. There is clear evidence of the use of the political strike which is becoming increasingly evident across this nation. Consequently, people who have a genuine objection to that sort of activity must have the opportunity of opting out of it. I applaud the clause in this legislation which enables individuals to contribute to charities an amount equivalent to the union subscription. The legislation aims also to ensure that individuals who are involved in strikes but who have no wish to be involved in strikes are not penalised for taking part in them. In fact the legislation gives protection to those people who wish to take action through the Industrial Relations Bureau. Furthermore, the creation of the Bureau will ensure that there are additional powers to secure the observance of the Act for and on behalf of individual unionists. Those regulations and powers to be properly exercised obviously need support at all levels because individual members would find it extremely difficult to undertake all legal obligations. It is necessary also that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself should have additional powers in today's industrial climate to ensure that demarcation disputes are properly dealt with. We have seen the complete disruption of the Whyalla shipyards in South Australia as a result of petty demarcation disputes that have occurred over the last several years. In fact those disputes have led to the destruction of the yards and the future disemployment of some one-third of the working population of that city. This is a direct result of that sort of activity. I applaud the Government's action in introducing legislation which aims to assist in that direction. 
One of the most important areas from the Commonwealth Government's point of view and from the point of view of the rights of this 
Parliament is in the extension of the activities of the Government and the IRB in respect of cancelling the registration of a union or any other organisation. It will be able to extend the areas of trade and commerce across the State borders. I believe that this is a very worthwhile activity and it certainly highlights the legislative problems and the constitutional problems which the Government faces in dealing with these sorts of disputes. Furthermore, there will be extensions so as to avoid loopholes in respect of the secret ballot legislation which was introduced in June last year, and I applaud that amendment. The move towards the establishment of secret ballots in trade union affairs needs to be recognised at all levels and the opportunity taken in this legislation to extend that deserves applause from the community. 
Finally, the requirements for unions to ensure that their accounting and reporting practices are in line with those required by shareholders of companies and all other organisations in the community are to be extended. Trade unionists must know what is going on inside their unions. The only way they can find that out is to be provided with information by the unions themselves. To avoid having to do that is something approaching criminal behaviour, in my belief Unions are able to avoid their obligations and are able to make sure that trade unionists are kept in the dark. I am not talking about just some sectors but about the broad section of the trade union movement whose members are kept in the dark about the financial and other affairs of the operations of the trade union, and consequently are not able to exercise their proper democratic rights when it comes to electing leaders of the trade unions or taking part in the ordinary affairs of trade unions. 
I also might mention that there is in many unions no provision that a set of the rules of the union should be given to a member when he first joins. I have heard unions claim that it is too costly to provide a set of rules, but how can an ordinary member extend his influence and use his democratic rights to the full unless he fully understands what the organisation is about and what the rules are that have been made by the organisation which is controlling him? The essential thrust of this legislation is selective. It is aimed at trying to get at that hard core that is developing in trade unions- people who are using trade unions for their own affairs and for their own political objectives rather than those of the community as a whole or those of the union membership. We have the example of the 
Latrobe Valley strike, where unionists are seeking not to obtain further benefits for the membership as a whole, but rather to hold the rest of the community to ransom. It is that sort of activity which we are seeking to control through this legislation. That is its main thrust. 
I applaud the Government for the introduction of this legislation. Right at the core of it is the matter of the individual rights of trade unionists. In no way can this Government or any supporter of the Government in the Senate be described as a 'union basher'. What we are seeking to do is to ensure that an ordinary member of a trade union has a right which he can exercise; that he is in a position to be able to exercise that right; and that he can influence the affairs of the union in the proper democratic way. I am sure that this legislation will bring that about. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Administrative Services. Is the Minister aware of 'dead rent' payments revealed in the recently tabled AuditorGeneral 's report in respect of buildings leased by the Federal Government which remained unoccupied over an extended period and amounted to $1.2m? Can the Minister say what steps will be or have been taken to tighten up departmental control in order to effect a minimisation of such occurrences? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the recent statement by the South Australian AttorneyGeneral that he is preparing amending legislation to impose more extensive controls on companies registered in South Australia. Are these changes likely to delay current negotiations between the States and the Commonwealth on the establishment of a national securities and exchange commission? 
in reply- I apologise to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I thought all the buttons had been done up and that the honourable senator had been advised in this regard. The Public Accounts Committee has been enjoying a very heavy workload recently in respect of public hearings. The Committee, due to a change of secretary, has been unable in the short time available to it to complete all the necessary reports that ought to be submitted to the Parliament before it rises next week. Consequently the Committee, at its meeting this morning, decided to ask the Senate whether it would give leave in this circumstance so that it could meet its obligations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and refers to the reply given earlier by  Senator Carrick  in connection with the money supply and government spending in 1974 and 1975 under the control of the Whitlam Labor Government. Can the Minister confirm that, although government spending increased in 1973-74 by 46 per cent, unemployment increased by 300 per cent? Have the sundry Australian Labor Party shadow treasury spokesmen advocated increased Government spending by increasing the deficit by $ 1,000m as well as increasing indirect taxation? Is it likely that such policies will increase inflation, destroy incentive to business and increase unemployment when those policies obviously failed in 1974-75? 
Having waited three days to move this motion, it is with great pleasure that I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee B, recommends that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: The continuing review of expenditure by departments in the following areas, having in mind the related cost-benefit: 
1 ) Increased expenditure on computer use, without any resultant savings; 
Hire of pot plants where less costly alternatives, such as the provision of room dividers, may have achieved the desired result; and 
The purchase by Departments of newspapers and periodicals. 
-It is referred to on page 2 of the report. 
I ask the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs: Is it a fact that the increased funds now available to the States under the new federalism policy have allowed all States to cut taxation, particularly payroll tax and death duties? Will the forecast drop in the rate of inflation this year to some 7 per cent, compared with estimated increases in funds for the States of 10.9 per cent - 
-That is forecast by W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd. I ask the Minister: Will that forecast drop greatly enhance the real potential of the States to extend works programs and to reduce further pay-roll and other taxes? 
-I wish to refer to two or three items which  Senator Wriedt  mentioned during his speech in regard to various aspects of the taxation law, and one or two problems that he foresaw in the Budget brought down last August. For instance, he mentioned that the Government's income tax take this financial year will rise by some 17 per cent. He employs the typical trick of misreading the figures. To determine that figure of 1 7 per cent he took the net figure after allowing for income tax refunds but he did not take into account the fact that the rise in income tax this financial year by way of pay-as-you-earn deductions from salaries will be of the order of only 8 per cent or something in Une with the rate of inflation. This is precisely the result which the Government sought when it introduced personal tax indexation. That decision is a major plus for the Government and for the people of Australia. 
Refunds of taxation this financial year will fall from $ 1 ,300m to around $640m. This follows the introduction of the Hayden tax scales in 1975 which calculated tax liability closer to the actual situation than had been done before. This reduces the amount which individuals We receive by way of refund. This result has been delayed because of subsequent changes through indexation of the income tax system and which only now, two years later, have had their real effect in the Budget. So it is idle for the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  to declare that income tax is going to rise by some 17 per cent this financial year. The true figure and the one which concerns the people in terms of what hits their pockets W111 be of the order of 8 per cent, roughly in Une with the expected rate of inflation this financial year. 
I would like to scan over two or three other areas of this legislation which are of general interest to the community. I mention particularly the very progressive move taken by the Government to exempt income derived from the sale of mining rights. It is a form of income which, prior to the advent of the Labor Government in 1 973, was exempt from income tax but a decision of the Whitlam Government following the Coombs Task Force report resulted in that form of income being taxed. This caused genuine hardship to the bona fide prospector who had control of mining rights over areas of land. It led to the wrong assessment being made of those items for taxation purposes, and to the situation where there was less incentive for the development of mining properties. It was one of the reasons for the downturn of the mining industry in the period of the previous Government. 
Another relatively small item concerns the tax on royalties from films and television programs which originate overseas and are distributed in Australia. I am informed that while the rate of 10 per cent is to be applied to the gross rental attaching to these items, that is considerably less than the rate which generally applies overseas. For instance, in the United States of America a comparable rate would be of the order of 30 per cent. In Canada I believe the rate is about 25 per cent and even in our sister dominion across the Tasman, New Zealand, the rate would be about 13 per cent. So 10 per cent seems quite a reasonable rate in the present circumstances. 
I applaud the Government on amending a most unusual section in the income tax law as it affects the health insurance levy. Trust estates of deceased persons have been subject to the health insurance levy since the introduction of the new Medibank arrangements last year. The Government has taken a most forward and welcome step in eliminating what appeared to be an almost ludicrous situation. 
I turn now to the area of this legislation in which I have had a particular interest. Over the last few years there has been a substantial rise in the number of trusts being used in Australia as means of operating one's business or of owning investments which in turn own operating businesses. The reason for this is to take account of the personal rates of income tax as an alternative to being taxed at high company rates. There are certainly disadvantages in handling one's affairs via a trust. Although it is a legitimate way of. conducting one's affairs various abuses have crept in. I am pleased to see that the Government has taken a stand in regard to the almost ghoulish practice that has grown up in respect of some will trusts. Section 99 of the Income Tax Assessment Act provides there where a person dies and provides for certain beneficiaries after his death, the income which is earned by the estate can be accumulated for the benefit of some future beneficiary. What has been happening is that people quite unrelated to the affairs of the beneficiary have become testators by putting their names to a will. In other words, a person is granting a legacy in favour of somebody he does not even know. This is one practice which is well and truly picked up in this legislation and, I believe, for the better. 
Whether or not people should be allowed to conduct their affairs via trusts under sections 98 and 99 of the existing legislation is something that was recognised by the Government in its election promise back in 1975 that individual taxpayers would have the alternatives of paying taxation either as a company or opting to be taxed as partners. The trust is a device, if one can term it as such in this situation, which allows people to do that without there needing to be any change to the present legislation. I applaud the Government's decision which is right in line with statements of government policy made before the 1975 election. There are one or two other amendments in respect of trusts which I believe are reasonable in the circumstances. For instance, the maximum penalty rate of tax applicable under section 99a where trusts, other than will trusts, which accumulate income are assessed at a maximum rate of 60 per cent rather than the previous rate of 50 per cent recognises a practical situation which exists and the gradually climbing rates of income tax which have applied since that rate was first set back in 1964. It is also interesting to note that the legislation covers the situation of provisional tax being applied to assessments under section 99a which would not otherwise have been made. That is totally reasonable in the light of the present situation. 
The Leader of the Opposition made one or two rather outrageous statements about the effect of the introduction of the new system of standard rate personal income tax. Without taking that issue too far, I believe that it is totally improper for him to rely upon statements made by  Mr Eric  Risstrom of the Taxpayers Association which took into account purely arbitrary and undetermined figures without having any regard to what may be the effect of the factor for inflation which he plucked out of the air. One is led to think that is probably a figure which is about twice as high as is now indicated for the current financial year. In fact, if one discounts the calculations for that sort of factor, one finds that  Senator Wriedt  's comments are totally unreasonable. 
I note that in the amendment  Senator Wriedt  asserts that the changes to the personal income tax system are in fact regressive in nature. That assertion indicates that he considers that the personal tax changes will impose higher taxation on those at the lower end of the scale. Nothing could be further from the truth. We know that all those people who have incomes of less than $3,750 a year will be free of income tax altogether; they will not pay any tax at all. We also know that, because of the introduction of the 32 per cent tax rate, people applying that rate of tax to their incomes, even if they are earning in the order of $16,000 a year, will incur no more than a 24te per cent flat rate of tax on their incomes. I believe that the first item in the amendment is totally out of court and certainly should be discarded. 
The second point in the amendment asserts that the legislation repudiates the Government's commitment to full tax indexation. Nothing could be further from the truth. Whilst it was stated in the Budget Papers that in the year 1978-79 a 50 per cent rate of indexation would apply, in fact the Government has committed itself to full tax indexation thereafter. It is perfectly reasonable that the Government should have a 50 per cent indexation rate in the light of the major changes that have occurred in the personal tax system this year. When we are changing from a system which is outdated and which is affected dramatically by changes in the rate of inflation, we should index that system. Certainly, the Government has undertaken to do that for the first half of the year, that is, for the period that will be covered by that system. But, bearing in mind that the new system will apply for the second half of the year, it is reasonable that that system be given a fair chance to survive and that the full rate of indexation not apply until 1 July 1979. 
The third point that is made in the amendment is that the Government has failed to index family allowances. If ever there was a little hypocritical cant it must be that statement which emanates from the Opposition. In fact, the Opposition has denied entirely that the family allowance system is of any value to the community. It is a most worthy advance introduced by the Government in the Budget of 1976 and it has led to greater benefits for families generally and particularly for the wives in families throughout the community. I cannot see that members of the Opposition can claim in any way that the Government has failed in introducing such a significant reform as that introduced in the 1976 Budget. 
The fourth point made in this amendment speaks of insufficient measures being taken to counter tax avoidance practices. The Minister stated on behalf of the Government, in his second reading speech, that further legislation wil be introduced in this regard. But we see in this legislation that already certain moves have been made in respect of the abuses I mentioned earner and in respect of will trusts, which are most significant and which I believe are terribly important They certainly are getting at the core of significant abuses in that respect. Previously the Government has introduced legislation in respect of abuse in taxation matters. For example, I refer to the amendments to section 3 1C of the Income Tax Assessment Act which deals with the values of stocks. That amendment was introduced by way of the trading stock valuation adjustment Bill earlier in the year. The Government has foreshadowed other antiavoidance measures. I am confident that those measures will come forward in the next few months. Certainly, I am looking forward to seeing them. 
It only remains for me to say that I congratulate the Government on introducing such farsighted measures as are contained in this legislation. I congratulate it on introducing the standard tax system, ensuring that certain tax avoidance abuses in respect of trusts have been closed off and making other substantial changes to the income tax law which will lead to long term benefits for the community. I reject out of hand the amendment which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has moved, and I support the Bills. 

 -Mr President, I present the 166th, 167th and 168th reports from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-Mr  President,  copies of the reports are limited at the moment but are available for perusal in the Parliamentary Library or the Senate Records Office. The 166th report comprises two Department of Finance minutes. The practice of presenting finance minutes is the result of a long standing arrangement between the Committee and the Department of Finance which ensures the Committee's recommendations and conclusions are followed up and reported to Parliament. These minutes refer to the Committee's 158th report relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer 1974-75 and the 160th report relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund 1974-75. The minutes detail the action taken to rectify faults in procedures and controls discovered during the Committee's examination of expenditure performance and the use of the Advance to the Treasurer by departments in the financial year 1974-75. 
The 167th report relates to the Committee's inquiry into matters raised by the AuditorGeneral in his report for the financial year 1974-75. In the inquiry the Committee found that in the Department of Administrative Services, on-the-job training was deficient and there was insufficient supervision of subordinates. There were considerable arrears in inspections of government property for fire protection purposes. The Department of Construction has been negligent in its responsibilities towards fire safety, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory where the cycle time for surveys has reached 56 years. There was evidence of disregard of financial instructions which appeared to be tacitly accepted by senior officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs and incredible incompetence shown in the purchase and renovation of a residence in Dublin for the Counsellor at the Australian Embassy. 
In the case of the Northern Territory electricity supply undertaking the financial results since 1 97 1 -72 clearly indicate that the increasing costs of operations have not been matched by corresponding increases in revenue to recover the full cost of providing power to residents. The Committee records its extreme dissatisfaction that as a consequence more than $23m may not have been recovered and believes that a major contributing factor is the division of responsiblity between the Departments of the Northern Territory and Construction. A report on the electricity undertaking in the Northern Territory recently tabled in this Parliament recommended that a statutory authority be established to draw these responsibilities together. The Committee believes that a single authority should be created for all of the utilities in the Northern Territory as a duplicate administrative machine will be wasteful and expensive for consumers. 
The Committee took evidence relating to fraud by officers of the Department of Social Security and beneficiaries. The Committee is concerned to note increasing trends towards overpayments of benefits and has sought a further submission on the matter. The Committee has recommended that further consideration be given to the introduction of a national identity card system which could also have advantages to other areas such as health and immigration. The Committee also received evidence that short periods of casual employment were being refused by persons on the grounds that it adversely affects their unemployment benefit entitlements. The Committee believes that changes should be made in administering the benefits so that permanent job seekers are not disadvantaged by taking casual employment when the opportunity arises. 
The 168th report relates specifically to evidence taken in connection with items of expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1976-77. As honourable senators are aware after the close of each financial year the Treasurer submits to the Parliament a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him under section 36A of the Audit Act. As our report shows there were cases where expenditure from the Advance was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. In other cases however, there was evidence of overtime being paid to circumvent staff ceilings, inefficient estimating procedures and unacceptable delays which caused expenditure to be charged to the Advance when provision should properly have been made in the additional estimates. In general, however, there was a reduction in the number of requests for funds from the Advance, and results of the Committee's examination suggest that the majority of those requests were confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements. 

 Mr President, for the benefit of the Senate, I would like to recall very briefly, the work of the Eleventh Committee which concludes its work with the presentation of these three reports. Your Committee was appointed in March of 1976 and in the 20 months smos has met on 84 occasions and has presented 13 reports to the Parliament. These have ranged in subject matter from tabling finance minutes reporting the follow up action taken in respect of the Committee s recommendations, examination of the AuditorGeneral's annual reports and expenditure performance of departments, examination of the financial affairs of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which we regard as a most significant report, and a special report on the conference of Commonwealth and State Public Accounts Committees which I tabled earlier this week. Honourable senators will recall on that occasion I stated that the conference was of historical significance as it was the first occasion since Federation that similar committees from parliaments throughout Australia gathered together to discuss mutual problems. 
Yes, indeed, a very good example of co-operative federalism. Already we have begun to implement some of the initiatives outlined in that report. 
Due to the early prorogation of the 30th Parliament the Committee has been unable to report on its inquiry into the former Overseas Property Bureau and the 12th Committee will have to decide whether to continue a major inquiry into the use of automatic data processing in the Commonwealth public sector. 
As this is the last statement from the Public Accounts Committee, I would like to place on record the Committee's appreciation to the Secretary of the Committee and his staff for their devotion to their duties and loyalty to the Committee, as well as the Committee's appreciation for the support given by the previous Secretary,  Mr Tom  Devine, who retired at the end of August after four years with the Committee, and his successor,  Mr Michael  Talberg. I would particularly like to note the loss to the Parliament which will follow the retirement of its vicechairman, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Frank  Crean. He has made a most significant contribution to the work of the Committee since the Committee's reestablishment in September 1952, of which he was an original member. We are going to miss his wisdom in the next Parliament but I know that all members of the Committee would wish him well in his retirement. 

 Mr President, I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noted the reports in today's  Australian Financial Review  that  Senator Wriedt  has adopted the role of Opposition spokesman on primary industry but does not wish to adopt the representation of the Treasurer in the Senate? Has he seen reports that if the Australian Labor Party wins the election on 10 December it will reduce tariffs, inevitably leading to further unemployment in manufacturing? Does the Minister agree that such major changes to Australia's industrial structure are long term considerations, in contrast to those proposed by  Senator Wriedt,  and that the policies outlined in the Government's White Paper on manufacturing are more appropriate? Finally, is it likely that  Senator Wriedt  does not seek to represent Treasury in this Senate because he is unsure as to which Treasury spokesmen or set of economic policies he would be representing? 
 I rise briefly in order to draw attention to this most important development, the creation of the Special Broadcasting Service, and to mention the need for the Government to consider the situation in relation to smaller States, particularly South Australia and Western Australia, as the Service is extended throughout Australia. I have in mind the position of radio station 5UV in Adelaide which provides time for local ethnic groups to broadcast their programs, as they determine them, throughout the Adelaide area. I draw the Government s attention to that point. Proposed section 79E(l)(a) provides for the production or presentation of programs or the arrangement or provision of facilities for that purpose and proposed section 79E(l)(d) provides for the acquisition, acceptance or taking on hire or the letting out of personal property, including programs or rights or interests in programs. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether these provisions are sufficient to allow for the extension of the activities of the Special Broadcasting Service into remote areas as well as to smaller cities such as Adelaide. 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Chairman  having reported accordingly- 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that the recent decision of the Government to assist non-government schools in categories 1 and 2 by increasing grants to approximately 12 per cent of per capita government schools costs still does not approach the level of IS per cent for similar aid to those schools provided by the South Australian State Labor Government? Can the Minister explain why the Federal Labor Party has opposed the recent moves whilst the South Australian Labor Party apparently strongly supports such aid? 

 Senator Georges- Mr President, I rise to order. I have been patient this morning. I took some good advice which was given yesterday, which was to refrain from interjecting on the Minister. I find it very difficult to sit here and see a sort of pavlovian exercise. Somebody rings the bell and the Minister gets up and drools. We are getting to a position where the Minister is using a device to make rather lengthy statements on government policy.  Mr President,  I say to you that this is a serious misuse of Question Time. I know that we do not have to suffer this situation much longer- for a couple more minutes today and perhaps for another hour tomorrow. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I ask: How many Aboriginal secondary education grants are being made available this year? How does this compare with the past? What steps are being taken to ensure that Aborigines are better equipped to secure employment after leaving school? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether, in the interests of preventive dentistry and the consequent savings to the community through higher standards of oral health, the Minister considers that the encouragement of the use of mouthguards in sport by children would be enhanced by their cost being allowed for tax rebate purposes? Further, would the Minister consider taking up with Medibank and private health funds the extension of insurance cover to the purchase and fitting of mouthguards as well as other preventive measures within the framework of present and possible future dental health schemes? 
I commend  Senator Haines,  from my home State of South Australia, on her contribution to the debate and wish her all the best while she is here in the next few months until 30 June. I know that she will represent my State, as all of us on this side of the chamber from South Australia certainly will, in the interests of that 
State. I should like to address my remarks in this Address-in-Reply debate to the situation in South Australia. 
One of the clear statements in the GovernorGeneral's Speech yesterday related to an improvement in the prosperity of Australians and the creation of more jobs. By all indications this certainly relies upon the development of manufacturing industry, as was pointed out in the Governor-General's address. But I point out that in South Australia the manufacturing industry is one of the key employment areas and consequently is the area to which our State looks in terms of recovery in the coming years. I am glad to say that the Fraser Government has addressed itself to that problem and has been seeking policies to reduce inflation, to lower interest rates and to increase the level of confidence in the community because these things will increase investment. 
I am reluctant to speak now of some of the problems, largely home grown problems, that do arise in my State. I know that probably I will be accused of knocking my own State and of knocking those people who currently occupy the Treasury benches in the State Parliament. Nevertheless, I believe that these things have to be said in the interest of obtaining a clear picture about the recovery which is emerging for Australians generally and the limitations upon that recovery in South Australia. I shall give a short history lesson. South Australia came into its position of prominence in the Federation by virtue of the development of skills and abilities in its population to an extent somewhat greater than in other States. This is clear because South Australia has always had a great lack of resources. It has lacked the water and mineral resources which some of the luckier States have been able to exploit. South Australia did get going originally on the basis of copper development but since then there does not seem to have been much of that type of development. 
Then we came to about the late 1930s- the beginning of the Second World War- when we were fortunate enough to have Thomas Playford elected as Premier of the State. It was his theory, his dream, that the State ought to develop by virtue of the development of manufacturing industry. The only way that it could do so was to employ the skills of the people to a better extent than in other States. South Australia succeeded in doing that and continued to do so until recent years. It did this chiefly on the basis of the simple theory upon which all great thoughts seem to be based; that is, that one should not expect to get more out of a product than one puts into it. Very simply, that relied upon the proposition that wage levels would be slightly lower in South Australia than in other States in order to compensate the exporter of goods to other States for the increased cost of transport. In order to compensate the wage earner for those lower wages, which was only reasonable, the objective of the Government of South Australia at that time was to keep living costs low also. That policy relied very heavily, first of all, on establishing a basis for cheap housing. In South Australia we have seen the development of the South Australian Housing Trust, which over a long period has provided a great deal of low cost housing for low income earners. It should not be said that that accommodation is insubstantial or inadequate; in fact, housing in South Australia is generally of a higher level than it is in other States. 
-Well, this is a States House. 
I am glad to see that  Senator Cavanagh  agrees with the proposition that South Australia is great. Following the adoption of the simple proposition which I have outlined, South Australia prospered and, very largely, in terms of population, it grew at rates in excess of those which applied in other States. That was pretty clear until about 1968. 
That is a funny remark when one realises that it was the Walsh Government which came into power in 1965 in South Australia and in a very short period reduced the State to ashes. In 1 968 it had to be taken over by the Hall Government, which tried to turn the situation around in a very short period. Of course, that Government was out of office by 1 970, when the rot really started to set in. 
-That is correct. Let us look at one or two factors in relation to the proposition which I have put, namely, that South Australia's development has been based very largely on the cost advantage it has had in relation to other States. What has happened during the period of the State Labor Government? In that period we have seen wage rises outstrip those of other States. Average weekly earnings increased from 1970-71 to 1976-77 by 209 per cent while in respect of Australia they increased by 204 per cent. This means that the wage differential between South Australia and New South Wales has fallen from 1 1 per cent to only 7 per cent and between South Australia and Victoria from 8 per cent to 6 per cent. Those lower percentages of six or seven per cent are now too low when compared with the added cost to freight goods between the States. 
The next point relates to the cost of living. In Tom Playford 's view the second great element in his theory was that South Australia should have a cheaper cost of living than other States in order to offset the effect on the ordinary wage earner of cheaper labour costs. We find that from the December quarter of 1970 to the December quarter of 1977 the consumer price index increased by 216 per cent, bearing in mind that average weekly earnings increased by only 209 per cent, whereas the average increase for Australia was 204 per cent. 
I am sorry, I am unable to compare it with that. However, that argument it totally irrelevant. We are talking about issues in South Australia. In the past month or so a survey came out which disclosed that food and grocery producers revealed that food prices in Adelaide were higher than in other States due to the higher worker compensation payments and higher overheads in South Australia. We see somewhat similar increases in freight costs in South Australia to those in other States. These costs have increased, naturally, because of added fuel costs and so on. Over the past six or seven years these costs in South Australia certainly have not increased at rates disproportionate with the rates of increase in the rest of the community. So it is not freight costs in themselves that have caused any real problems for the development of South Australian industry. On the other hand, let us look at State taxation revenue. We find that in 1970-71 taxation revenue raised by the State Government totalled $58.7m. In 1976-77 it amounted to $325. 5m, which was an increase of 554 per cent. On a per capita basis that increase was something like 295 per cent. For Australia that increase was 222 per cent. 
It is one-third more,  Senator McLaren.  Just to give some answers to  Senator McLaren's  point let us have a look at the cost of registering a Holden Kingswood sedan in South Australia compared with other States, that is the cost of stamp duty, registration and so on. A new Holden Kingswood 202 in Adelaide costs $33 1 to get on the road. I point out to  Senator Coleman  that in Perth it costs $ 1 3 1; in Brisbane, $162; in Sydney, $280, and in Melbourne, $328. So that the cost in South Australia is far and away ahead of the average Australian cost of registering a motor vehicle. Let us look at water rates imposed by the South Australian Government. The highest cost of water for consumption is something like 1 9c per kilolitre. I point out for  Senator Coleman's  benefit that in Perth it costs 12.73c. 
I am very pleased that  Senator McLaren  has brought that point out because it is precisely the one I want to make. South Australia exists because things are done better than they are done in the same area in some of the other States. What has happened in relation to water conservation in South Australia is something outstanding. I know that and  Senator McLaren  knows that. It is the reason why South Australia has existed. It is not necessarily because of the Dunstan Labor Government. It is because of the far-sighted plans made by people back in the early part of this century in relation to the use of resources from the River Murray and the development of the Hills Reservoirs. I am sure  Senator McLaren  will acknowledge that. 
I am sure the honourable senator will have an opportunity to express that view to some of her colleagues in Western Australia so that they can do something similar. In relation to workers' compensation, the cost to employers in South Australia in 1 973-74 rose by the astronomical figure of 98.2 per cent over the figure for the previous year. In 1 974-75 there was an increase of another 92.9 per cent. In 1975-76 there was a rise of 40 per cent and luckily in 1976-77 the cost has risen by only 20 per cent. But why has this happened in South Australia, and is the situation really much worse than the situation in the other States? Perhaps we should examine the position. Let us have a look at the source cost of workers' compensation insurance. We know that it relates to the benefits available to workers who are unfortunately injured and who consequently need to draw on workers' compensation. 
In South Australia compensation is based on average weekly earnings over the last 12 months of service which includes all additional benefits according to the award. In New South Wales, a Labor State, the current award rate applies for only the first 26 weeks. After that compensation is based on 90 per cent of average weekly earnings. In Victoria there is a $73 maximum pay-out per week with increases to make up the figure but these do not rise to the South Australian figure which is astronomical. So obviously there are reasons why costs in South Australia are higher than those in other States. It is this situation which ought to be attacked if we are to see an improvement in the local economy of my home State. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be in the list of priorities of the State Labor Government. 
In the last day or so the Premier of my State saw fit to make a statement- he did not see fit to deliver it in South Australia but he had to go over the border to Melbourne- which affected the welfare and future of South Australians. The statement concerned the introduction of socalled industrial democracy in South Australia. Very little detail has been given in relation to this matter. I understand that the State Government intends to bring into the State area of control in the very near future what is known as worker participation in relation to such bodies as the electricity trust, the housing trust and so on. I understand the Government intends to legislate in relation to that. However, apparently the Government will introduce and extend that scheme after 1 980 to cover the private sector. We have already felt a great deal of disquiet in the commercial business community in Adelaide concerning this matter. I shall read a statement made by the  Chairman  of News Ltd,  Sir Norman  Young, at the annual general meeting of that company in November of last year. It was said publicly. He stated: 
If South Australian companies are to bc controlled, in the future, by the joint forces of the trade unions and the Government, funds for new business projects and for business expansion will just not be available from the private sector. Who, in these circumstances, would want to invest their own money in a company in which the right to make major financial policy decisions has been taken away from the shareholders and handed over to the trade unions and the Government? 
-Senator Georges might say that that is misleading. 
Exaggeration, 1 am sorry I misquoted the honourable senator. The fact is that the principle of one-third of the directors being appointed by the unions, one-third by the Government and one-third by the shareholders is set out clearly in a policy document which was circulated by the South Australian Labor Party in 1975. That is a clear policy objective of the Labor Party in South Australia. There is no question of any exaggeration in that,  Senator Georges.  The general matter of worker involvement in his own work place is a most laudable ambition. It is something for which I would personally work. But the proposals of the Government in South Australia are not in the form of worker involvement. They are a form of worker control over private business. That is the point which  Sir Norman  Young was making in his statement. Of course, that is the point being made by other businessmen in the Adelaide community who are very worried about the future development of their State. It is pretty clear that the Government in South Australia intends to pursue this matter. 
The Premier, when asked in the State Parliament last year about the objectives of the State Government in this matter, said that there was a list of companies available to the worker participation unit or the worker democracy unit, as it is called, which set out a priority list for pressuring those companies to implement this program over the next few years. That is the sort of program which is before us and which consequently leads to a great deal of concern in the business community and obviously to a great lack of confidence in investment in South Australian industry. If that is so, what, then, for the future of South Australian industry? That is a question which I am afraid cannot be answered here. Certainly, general policies in relation to the economy need to be developed and promoted by the Federal Government. The Federal Government will continue to do that in accordance with the policy set out in the Governor-General's Speech. But there are local issues which are totally within the control of the South Australian Labor Government and which must be re-thought in order to ensure that South Australian industry gets going again. One has only to consider for a moment to realise the impact on the minds of potential investors of the mere statement of the Premier yesterday in Melbourne: 'We will introduce worker democracy in private industry after 1 980 '. If private industry were at all concerned to invest in South Australia in the immediately subsequent period, clearly it would withhold all plans for investment until it knew what the Government actually had in mind. As we have just noted, those plans are spelled out, but they are not in the form of legislation and no rightthinking businessman would act until such an important matter was clarified. One would think that the Government of South Australia was actively out to destroy industry in that State. One would expect it rather to encourage industry to get going with investment by making the position clear, by enabling businessmen to arrive at decisions about their future. Instead, it casts more gloom around the place and creates more indecision amongst the businessmen of Adelaide. 
I implore the Government of South Australia, in the interests of the people of our State, to reconsider its actions of the last few weeks in this matter, to take another look at State taxation and the problems wrought by the very high levels of benefits that accrue from workers compensation in South Australia. These things are at the core of our problems in that State. Until they are overcome I must reluctantly say that I have great hesitation about the future of the State. It worries me that South Australia cannot get going as rapidly as is possible in other States. I am sure that the South Australian Government is concerned about that situation, but apparently it is not aware of the facts and the impact its decisions are having on the business community. I implore it to rethink this whole matter. It is pretty clear that if it establishes an organisation for the economic development of South Australia but at the same time creates another organisation which is in contradistinction thereto, with exactly contrary objectives, such as the worker democracy unit, there will be very little development in South Australia. 
I will conclude by referring to one or two points that  Senator Button  made.  His  was indeed a thoughtful speech on the institution of Parliament. I do not share his pessimism about the future of Australian society and Australian institutions, which seemed to be the keynote of his speech. In fact, the institution of Parliament as we know it will survive because of the goodwill of those who occupy the benches in it. I believe that that is the real key; the amount of regard that we members of Parliament have for the institution itself will determine its future. It is the goodwill of those of us who feel concern for its continuing development and extension into the life of Australian society that is important. The institution, of itself, will not solve problems; rather, it is we who belong to it who will make it work. That is what we on this side of the Parliament are committed to- making things work. Institutions in themselves are mere buildings and facades; it is the people in them who make them go. That has particular relevance in the situation that we have in South Australia. 
Although I have been terribly parochial tonight, I feel that I speak on behalf of the small States in this regard. I again affirm my view of the vital position of the Senate in relation to the general life of the Australian community. I believe that it is the fullest expression of the contract between the States, of the Federal pact made back in 1 90 1 . We have seen it develop thus far. It has a long way to go, and I have the fullest faith in the development of this parliamentary institution. I support the motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to a report in the  Financial Review  of 27 February which indicated that there was likely to be a delay of more than a year in the implementation of the Government's policy in respect of the establishment of national securities industry regulation and national companies legislation. Is the Government in a position to proceed immediately with a revision of takeover laws which was reported to have been unanimously agreed to by State Ministers at their meeting last Friday or will action in this area be delayed until after the next meeting of Ministers in May? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it a fact that the complexity of pharmaceutical research and increasingly stringent government regulations are effectively increasing lead times in the development and marketing of new pharmaceutical products which are subject to patent? Is it also a fact that the maximum permissible life of such patents is 1 6 years? In view of the detrimental effect of rising lead times on the development of new products and their efficiency generally, will the Minister consider recommending to the Government that the term of patents be increased to 20 years? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of the recent spectacular successes of the Australian Narcotics Bureau and the appointment of 50 new narcotics investigation officers, will the Minister consider lifting the overtime limitations which apply to present officers with the object of further increasing the effectiveness of the Bureau? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the claim by the South Australian Premier that the Federal Government might welch on its Medibank arrangements to pay the South Australian Government $8m in reimbursement of hospital costs this year? Has the Premier used this figure to overstate the State's expected deficit this financial year? Can the Minister say whether the State Government is due for the $8m? If so, can she indicate when the sum may be paid? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to an article in today's  Age,  attributed to Tim Colebatch, querying the relevance of the reports of the Australian Bureau of Statistics on strike days lost for the year ended 31 December 1977 which, on first reading, showed a vast improvement in the number of working days lost compared with previous years but which excluded working days lost as a result of the Victorian power strike. Had the Bureau's definition of strike days lost included those days lost due to the stand downs caused by the Victorian power dispute, would the total statistics reflect the second highest number of days lost since 1967? Might users of such information be justified in treating with scepticism the methods of the Bureau and consequently devalue the Bureau 's otherwise useful work? Will the Minister look into the matter and determine whether there are similar definitional problems in other areas of the Bureau's operations which render data irrelevant? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development if he can indicate whether discussions with the State governments, seeking the establishment of building standards, have been proceeding? If so, and in the light of the significant potential benefits achievable through the proper co-ordination of State Housing Commission building activities, will the Minister undertake action to accelerate agreement? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I draw his attention to an article in the Adelaide  News  of 9 March 1978, reporting a sweetheart agreement in South Australia between the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union and the Metal Trades Federation, providing for overaward wage increases ranging from $4 to $15 a week, which is labelled as an attempt to avert industrial action by 270 members of that union. I ask: Does such an agreement indicate further evidence of the success of guerrilla-type tactics by small groups of key workers in industry in obtaining excessive benefits, leading to extensive disruption in industry and to the public? Are such agreements inimical to the interests of Australians generally in effectively countering the Government's actions in seeking a reduction in the rate of inflation? 
-I ask the Minister for Science whether his attention has been drawn to the menace of the Portuguese millipede which has been ravaging the Adelaide Hills area of South Australia for five years, which is rapidly spreading to other parts of the State and which is also known to be in the Blue Mountains. Is the Minister aware of the mental anguish, known locally as 'millipediosis', caused to families, and particularly to housewives, each morning when they face a clean-up operation involving collecting buckets full of black insects which are found on walls, ceilings, floors and furniture, wardrobes, curtains and linen stores as well as in babies' ears and nappies? Is the Minister further aware that the South Australian Government is not facing the question of effective control of the millipede with any sense of urgency? In order to restrict the further spread of this plague to other parts of the Commonwealth, will the Minister take the matter up with the State Government and consider assistance to it in finding a method of biological or other control? 
I notice that the Opposition is not opposing the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Bill. I address my remarks briefly to one or two issues raised in respect of the Industries Assistance Commission report which preceded the introduction of this legislation. I noticed that  Senator Walsh,  who has just resumed his seat, largely outlined the general matters set out in the Bill. I do not intend to repeat them. In respect of the age old question of bounty versus tariff, I support the view that the bounty certainly is the most equitable method of distributing the cost across the community. It also provides that visibility to consumers and to others in society as to the real cost of tariff protection. In this case it has the effect of not imposing higher costs on our community at a time when the recovery, which  Senator Walsh  is seeking, is struggling valiantly against periods of high cost increases which occurred over the last few years. It is an issue at the right time in terms of the recovery which he seeks. 
In reviewing the IAC report which preceded this matter it is interesting to note that a deal of information emerges about the crisis that faced Australian industry, albeit a relatively small industry, in the last few years. I notice that in terms of the production of these machines, that is, belt-driven pulley operated non-power fed bench or pedestal drilling machines, the total market for the items produced in 1972-73 was some 3,900 and, of that market, local manufacturers provided 40.2 per cent, whereas in 1976 the market had risen to almost 10,000 machines but the local market provided only 10.7 per cent. Obviously, imports from Taiwan and other countries have radically affected the ability of Australian firms to compete against imported machines. That is highlighted very drastically by the comparison between the total value of the market and the number of units. In 1972-73 Australian manufacturers had some 40.3 per cent of the market, which was roughly the same percentage as the number of units produced, whereas in 1976-77, in terms of value, that market had fallen to 32.5 per cent. Very clearly, whereas the Australian manufacturer had only 10.7 per cent of the market in terms of units, the value was 32.5 per cent. In other words, they were selling to a very much more expensive part of the market. 
That is clearly evidenced in the IAC report which shows that the unit price of drilling machines locally produced in 1972-73 was, on average, $201 and subsequently that price rose to $431 in the last financial year. The price of imported machines in fact fell from $201 in 1972-73 to $1 10 in the current year. There is no doubt that the competition which Australian firms have suffered has been a direct result of the serious cost increases in this country during that period. It is very interesting to see that the IAC in reviewing this matter took the view that the tariff ought not to be increased in this case as it would further inhibit the total market size, that there ought to be a definite attempt to increase the total market and, at the same time, provide Australian manufacturers with a bounty in order to be able to compete more effectively against imported items. That is a very significant point and it was well made in the IAC report. We need to note that this Bill only covers the provision of a bounty until June 1979, so it is a very temporary measure. 
I think it is important that further consideration be given to the plight of the industry. When the IAC brings down a further report on machine tools and the Government makes a decision on it in a few months we may be able to see this relatively small part of the total machine market in its proper perspective. Then we may be able to form better judgments about the future of this industry which, although small, provides a relatively important sector of some areas of the market. I finish my remarks by merely reiterating the point that the decision to provide a bounty in this case is the right measure at the right time. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether the costs of surgical footwear for use by people confined to wheelchairs, or with particular malfunctions of the feet, are rebatable for income tax purposes as medical or surgical appliances. Further, are such costs insurable under health insurance programs? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether the Australian Statistician announced yesterday a strong rise in retail sales in February? Is this the result of the new taxation scales which commenced on the first of that month? Does this further demonstrate the correctness of the Government's mix of economic measures which are aimed at stimulating the economy? 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to the recent commencement of a practice in the State of Colorado in the United States of America, which is rapidly being applied by other States in the United States, and which requires governmental regulatory bodies to go out of existence each six years unless they justify their existence to the legislature in open public inquiry? If not, will he draw this matter to the attention of the Government with a view to establishing the worthiness and relevance of such a process in the Australian context? 
I am indebted to the Opposition for proposing this matter of public importance today and for reminding us of the tragedy of the Whitlam Labor Government's dealings with the 
States. It is well for us to remind ourselves every now and again of the intentions of that Government in seeking to destroy the relationships with the States and in fact their very existence. We all know that some years ago it was spelt out quite clearly by various spokesmen for the Labor Government, including the Leader at that time,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, and even by the Premier of South Australia, that it was their purpose to establish one centralised government in Australia based on one House of Parliament in Canberra and to seek the abolition of the States and to rule through regional councils established throughout the area of the Commonwealth. Their intention was- and remains, as it was made quite clear in the speeches we heard today- to abolish the States and to seek the centralisation of power, particularly in relation to tax collection and the capacity to expend money on programs, in the hands of the Federal Government here in Canberra. 
It has been the purpose of the Fraser Government since being elected in 1975 to seek the devolution of power both by means of expenditure and by means of alterations to laws. As was demonstrated by  Senator Carrick  during his earlier speech on the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, it is the intention of the Fraser Government to have a working relationship with the States in a way which is relevant to the whole power process within the Commonwealth. That is directly opposed to the Opposition's approach. I thank  Senator Wriedt  for bringing that matter to our attention today so that we can remind ourselves again of the tragedy- I could almost say it was a comedy tragedy- of the period between 1972 and 1975. 
Let us look at some of the questions that have been raised today by the Opposition in this debate, pitiful though they were. We note that  Senator Wriedt  has raised in quite an orderly fashion the sums of money which the States would have received under the Whitlam Government's formulas that applied up to 1975. He said that during the last three years the Federal Government has not passed on some $367m in real terms to the States. What  Senator Wriedt  ignores is that he is basing his argument entirely on the fact that only one issue is involved, namely, that it is the question of inflation which makes the difference. That is not so. Another factor involved includes the alterations to the programs themselves. One has only to contemplate the effects of the State government in South Australia and Tasmania selling their railways to the Commonwealth to realise the significant effects- I think that we can count up bills amounting to almost $120m in those two sales alone- upon the finances-- 

 - Senator Bishop interjects. All I am seeking to establish here is a point which the Opposition clearly is overlooking when it is making these arguments against the Commonwealth. I wish to come down to a very simple discussion about this whole matter. If the States are so badly off, why is it that they are able to cut taxation in the way they have in their Budgets last financial year? Why is it that they have been able to further extend their finances? I do not hear any comments from Opposition senators about those matters. Why is it that the States have been able to increase the numbers in their public services?  Senator Wriedt  cited the figures. There has been an increase from 777,000 public servants to 951,000 public servants in the last two and a half years. Those figures compare with a reduction in the Commonwealth Public Service in the same period. If the States are so starved of funds, how is it that they can organise themselves to make sure that they can do all those things? 

 Senator Wriedt made the point that the great burden of unemployment has fallen upon the States as a result of this Fraser Government's policies. The States are employing more people through their public services. In a sense, we must agree with the Opposition on this point. If we properly support the principles of devolution of power and the devolution of proper monetary control, surely we agree with the principle that more people must be employed at this level rather than at the Commonwealth level. Therefore, we do not see any argument in that policy. We congratulate the States on taking such a major step in providing sympathetic concern for the unemployed people in this situation. We know of the difficulties in industry. But that is not to say that the State governments do not have a proper role in ensuring that such steps go ahead.  Senator Wriedt  also made the point that the States now receive a guaranteed share of income tax which is set at 39.8 per cent of the last year's collections. This was exactly what the States sought at the last Premiers Conference. Yet the honourable senator complains about the fact that we have changed the policy since the 1 976 Premiers Conference when the share was established at 33.6 per cent of the current year's collections. 
A fundamentally different principle is involved. Yet he makes a point to complain about the fact that this is somehow depriving the States of their finances. Obviously,  Senator Wriedt  is out to make simple political points in trying to establish some support for his counterpart in Tasmania who has been saying these outrageous things in the Press in that State in recent days. Let us look at some of the effects of the recent payments to the States through the reimbursement grant system. I will cite the figures from the Budget documents. Payments to the States in the 1976-77 financial year increased by 14.3 per cent. In 1 977-78, that increase in payments was down slightly to 13.5 per cent. But we must make it clear that this is prior to the deduction made for inflation. In the 1976-77 financial year the consumer price index rose by 13.4 per cent which means that in real terms the funds going to the States increased by less than one per cent. But what is the position in 1977-78? We find that currently inflation is running at around 9 per cent or hopefully even less. When we compare that inflation rate with the 13.5 per cent increase in funds this financial year, we see that there has been a real increase in funds provided to the States of over 4 per cent, greater than the rise in inflation that was budgeted for in the gross domestic product in Australia. This clearly demonstrates that the States are doing better under the new federalism policy. 
We must remind ourselves also that it was the Whitlam Labor Government during the period 1972 to 1975 which, apart from its determined policy in relation to the law and the use of section 96 grants amongst other things, sought through inflation and interest rates, thereby creating more unemployment, to destroy the States and their basis of finance as well. We all know that State finances cannot react as quickly to the effects of inflation as can Commonwealth finances. This is simply because their tax base tends to be calculated on capital values rather than in accordance with rising salaries as is the fact generally in the case of the Commonwealth. All these things created definite problems for the States and obviously cause a great deal of trouble for them in those years. Those problems have to be overcome now through the increased generosity of the Fraser Government. Hopefully, they will lead eventually to a greater degree of independence for the States in future years. It is the future with which we are concerned in this policy. It is a forward looking policy. It has been supported by the people at elections in 1 975 and 1977 when they clearly demonstrated their interest and agreed with the general thrust of these policies. 
Let me turn to some of the benefits which have flowed to the people of the various States since the federalism policy was introduced. I will cite the situation in my State of South Australia where payroll tax exemption for a small business has been granted to a significant degree amounting to a tax cut of some Sim. Secondly, probatethat is, death duties- between spouses has been abolished leading to a reduction of $4m to $5m being collected in the form of death duties. I might add that that came about after a great deal of pressure from the public and from the Opposition in my State which the Government, up until that time, did not recognise. Also, concessions have been introduced in respect of land tax which has cost another $6.4m in lost revenue. Stamp duty reductions and a reduction of rates of duty, particularly in regard to housing, have saved the community another $3m. Those savings add up to some $ 1 5m in my State. 
It might be said that perhaps that has led to some increase in the deficit in South Australia. It could well be that there has been some change in those circumstances. However, an examination of the deficit picture reveals that for the period of the great socialist experiment from 1972 to 1975 when compared with the present position the accumulated total deficits for all the States in the 1973-74 financial year amounted to $32.8m. In the next financial year, 1974-75, there was a great leap forward to $77. 8m in the total deficits of the States. In the first year of the Fraser Government's period of office, when the new federalism policy was just commencing, the total deficits turned into a surplus of $2 1.4m. In 1977 that surplus, on an adjusted basis- bearing in mind a particular technical factor which was involved in South Australia- was $ 12.6m. Those figures demonstrate clearly the success of the federalism policies, inasmuch as the States are no longer suffering a deficit but are in fact growing under the benefit of these policies. 
I am pleased that the States are reacting to the increased area of confidence in the Federal Government insofar as there are now far better relationships between the States and the Federal Government.  Senator Walsh  made the point that there have been some six Premiers Conferences since this Federal Government came to power in 1975. He ignored totally, of course, that it was very necessary in that time to settle a lot of long term details and that the Conferences went very well during that time, when one considers that so many fundamental matters were up for discussion and determination. I conclude by commending the Federal Government, the Fraser Government, on its initiative of introducing this far-reaching, far-sighted policy. I thank the Opposition for again bringing this matter to our attention and giving us the opportunity of examining again the paucity, weakness and pitiful nature of its policies and particularly of highlighting the policy of centralism which almost brought this country to the step of ruin between 1972 and 1975. 
My remarks on the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill will be brief. I understand from the information available to me that this Co-operative has had a very chequered career and is a worthwhile organisation. We should at least give it a chance to see whether it can pay its way in the next few years. It seems to me that the Co-operative, which has as many as 10,000 shareholders in Victoria and some from my own State of South Australia, has proved that it is capable of making a profit. It appears to be quite undercapitalised in its present operations. This, no doubt, has occurred because of a lack of appreciation of the financial needs of the Cooperative over a long period. It has not been helped by the matters which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  brought to our attention earlier. 
I mention this matter because I believe that cooperatives of this sort in the farming community at the moment play an important role. On top of that there is an outstanding meat works at Brooklyn which already is in operation. It employs some 500 to 600 people. It ought to be given the chance to see whether it can survive in a financial condition where its requirements are stabilised as a result of the action the Government is now taking. I believe that  Senator Wriedt  adverted to one or two points which need to be discussed at a later time. I do believe that we ought not to hold up the progress of the Bill at this stage of the game. The government should proceed as quickly as possible to ensure that assent is given to this guarantee Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General seen recent Press reports that the South Australian AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Duncan,  and the South Australian Government are considering the encouragement of class actions at law? Has the Federal Law Reform Commission investigated this question? If so, will it be reporting in the very near future? Has the Attorney-General considered the problems affecting the legal profession in the United States where class actions have developed rapidly in the last few years? Since the issue has been raised in one State only, can the Minister say whether action taken in this area should properly require a uniform approach by all States and the Commonwealth? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that section 26AAA of the Income Tax Assessment Act, introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1974, imposes a capital gains tax on profits made within a 12-month period and subjects them to a penalty tax at the taxpayer's marginal rate of income tax as high as 60 per cent? Does the imposition of this penalty apply to all gains including those on homes sold for any reason other than forced sales in connection with changes of employment? Does this narrow definition exclude self-employed people and penalise people who, by reason of a change to their business operations or financial requirements, are forced to change their residential status? If so, is this not discriminatory? More generally, will the Government consider also the disincentive effect on investment of a tax of 60 per cent with a view to lowering the effective rate of tax applicable under this section? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the impact of Russian influenza in the northern hemisphere over the last year and the authoritative statements indicating the spread of the menace to Australia this winter. In the light of advocacy by doctors that people should obtain inoculation against this strain of influenza very soon, can the Minister assure the Senate that sufficient serum for this purpose is available to meet expected demand? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the recently announced government statement in regard to the new export development scheme which has been widely accepted by the business community. Is the Minister aware of the difficulties which small businessmen engaged in the export trade are having in servicing orders sent from overseas which are delayed in Australia because of strikes and other deficiencies occurring in the handling of mail? I cite an example of one businessman who lost a contract with a German firm because a letter posted there on 3 January did not reach Australia until 23 April. Does the Minister recognise that small businessmen do not have the same access as larger firms have to sophisticated communications equipment and that their reliance on mails seriously undermines their efforts to develop export markets? Will the Minister consider, as an adjunct to the export development scheme, implementing a scheme of assistance to such businesses for the establishment of more effective communications systems with overseas countries? 
As I have very little time in which to speak I want to deal with only two or three matters, but I feel that some of the issues raised by  Senator Coleman  deserve immediate attention. For instance she said straight off that there is no interest in energy in the Third World and that we should have no concern for ensuring that it gets uranium for the development of its own industry. Does she not realise that the only way in which the Third World will become thoroughly viable in the world's economy is by industrialisation and by the use of energy? That energy has to be cheap, in order to allow those countries to get moving. 
Let us quickly look at one or two other issues. For the reasons that my colleagues have been outlining throughout the evening, I support uranium mining. I do not intend to go further into that, except to report that I have visited the area surrounding the Kakadu National Park and the mine sites and have been very interested to see the undertakings that have been going forward in that area. Certainly it is one of the most beautiful areas in Australia. Certainly the escarpment area and the Alligator Rivers Region deserve the highest possible standard of safeguards in the protection of the ecology. I was pleased to note that Pancontinental Mining Ltd which presently occupies the area around Jabiluka is undertaking studies into the ecology of the Magela creek which flows into the South Alligator River system and is consequently doing this work which no other body, by the way, has so far done. Of course, this has been supervised and assisted by the responsible body in the Northern Territory. So we have seen a great deal of concern in that area. 
As to  Senator Coleman's  reference to the washing of the wastes and the flow of the water into that river system, I can assure her from what I have observed that there is a great deal of study being undertaken so that those wastes will flow into the river system only in the flood season when they will be overwhelmed by the huge weight of water in the vicinity. 
-Senator Button is always very happy when he hears people like  Senator Collard  assure him of the real truth of these matters. I hope that he will be able to convey that to the rest of his party. 
-We can talk about the Finnis River. I think that the example of Rum Jungle which has been raised by  Senator Mulvihill  is a very good one about which to talk. We looked at that area too. I agree that there are very big problems in the area. The fact is that we have come a long way since those days and I hope that the people of Australia and the Senate recognise this. That is what this debate today is all about. We are here to discuss the safeguards for the ecology, Aboriginal land rights and other issues. 

 Senator Coleman was discussing earlier the fact that she was shocked when she visited the mine site areas and saw that no controls were being implemented. She says that this was some time in 1974. 1 understand that in October 1974 the Government of which she was a supporter put down a document in the House of Representatives which was ratified 12 months later, on 28 October 1975, by the Whitlam Government which was in agreement with the Ranger partners as to mining in the area. That was the subject of the Fox report and is the subject of the debate tonight. It is also interesting to observe that on 15 October, just two weeks before that agreement was presented to the Parliament,  Senator Wriedt  became the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In fact, not more than 15 or 13 days later he apparently was one of those people who concurred in the agreement. 
That agreement is the core of the legislation that we are debating tonight. Under the Atomic Energy Act we are now seeking to ratify that agreement and extend it into legislative form in order to protect the areas about which we have been talking. It is interesting to observe that the most stringent safeguards have been set down in the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. I see that we are expanding our constitutional base from the defence area into the area of power relating to trade and, of course, to external affairs. Quite clearly this legislation does give the strongest power to the members of the Government who will need it in order to control the development there under proper conditions. 
We observe that clauses 11 and 13 of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill have come in for some comment from the Opposition and from some State Premiers. I mention in particular the Acting Premier of South Australia,  Mr Des  Corcoran, who, together with senators from his State, is sending us telegrams. 
I note that he did not bother to send them to us separately; in fact he sent us a group one which I received only today. 
I acknowledge that point;  Senator McLaren  is correct. 
There is discrimination even in South Australia.  Mr Corcoran  is complaining about the fact that there has been no consultation in relation to clauses 1 1 and 13 of that Bill as to the time at which this activity will be commenced. In fact, it mentions that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given an assurance that those provisions will not commence to be enforced in relation to the States until the views of the States have been considered. That seems to me to be perfectly reasonable in the circumstances. We have a situation in which the codes of practice which are endorsed by the Fox commission report will, I believe, be thrashed out in Australia. Health matters and transport matters will be thrashed out in conjunction with the States. That is the point where the negotiations and consultations must occur. That is the guts of the issue. That is the guts of the safeguards relating to milling and mining, and they are the issues that have to be thrashed out in conjunction with the States. As to the broader proposition, quite clearly it is not an issue for the States in the immediate term. Rather we see the development in the Northern Territory going forward before the States are involved. Nevertheless, there is going to be consultation on the codes. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he aware that some consulates representing countries which allow dual nationality for Australian citizens positively discourage such former residents of those countries from renouncing their former nationality? Will the Minister request his colleague to make representations to those representatives of such countries to ensure that the proper intention and wishes of Australian citizens who approach consulates for this purpose are given practical effect? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister noticed recent public statements by Opposition Leader Hayden that real cuts in wages are occurring and are hindering the recovery in consumer spending? Is the Minister aware of the release yesterday of statistics indicating that growth in the average wage for the last quarter substantially outstripped the rate of inflation and that this is consistent with earlier trends, indicating a real increase in wages? Is the Opposition Leader indulging in his usual practice of exacerbating problems for political purposes by making outrageous, irresponsible and untimely statements, in this case designed to incite the trade unions? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Can the Minister inform the Senate what percentage of Australia 's gross domestic product is represented by State and Federal public expenditure on education? How does Australia's public expenditure on education compare with that of other countries? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It relates to the present depressed state of the wine grape industry and, in particular, the criticism of Australian wines compared with wines made overseas. Is it a fact that Australia's natural grape ripening process encouraged by Australia's sunny climate is the subject of considerable envy overseas? Is it also a fact that French and German wine makers seek to achieve quality levels equivalent to Australian wines by the addition of sugars? In the interest of the Australian wine industry, which seems to suffer in the public mind by comparison of its product with overseas made wine, will the Government encourage the Australian Wine Board to advertise and promote the fact that Australian wines are of the highest quality by international standards and that overseas wine makers seek to achieve our level of quality by means of artificial additives? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Is he aware of a report in today's Adelaide  Advertiser,  attributed to the Iranese Meat Organisation, to the effect that Australia's live sheep trade will be in jeopardy if there is a continuing disruption to the trade by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union? In the light of this and the inability of Iran physically to handle violently fluctuating levels of consignments caused by industrial action, will the Minister enter into discussions with the AMIEU to ensure a proper understanding of the issues amongst union members and undertake other positive steps to ensure an even and orderly flow of trade to the newly developing markets of the Middle East? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a fatal motor collision at a railway level crossing near Lameroo in South Australia to which the honourable member for Barker,  Mr Porter,  and I were amongst the first to arrive last Monday. As the South Australian Government has sold its railways to the Federal Government this matter is now of concern to the Parliament. Is it a fact that unlit railway rolling stock is difficult to discern in the dark of night on level crossings where no warning systems are in operation until it is too late to avoid a collision? Would the fixing of reflective tape which is sensitive to headlights to the sides of goods wagons assist in alerting drivers to potential dangers? Would the Minister take up this matter with his colleague, the Minister for Transport, with a view to his endeavouring to have this or some other appropriate remedy adopted by the Australian National Railways? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 169th report. I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
-The 169th report refers to a Department of Finance minute relating to the Committee's 157th report, presented in April 1976, which dealt with items arising from the Committee's examination of the AuditorGeneral's Report for 1973-74. The practice of presenting a Department of Finance minute as a report is the result of arrangements made between the Committee and the Treasury in 1952. The Committee forwards a copy of each of its reports to the Minister for Finance for consideration immediately that report is tabled in Parliament.  His  reply, in the form of a Department of Finance minute, is then examined by the Committee and included in a later report to the parliament. 
The Department of Finance minute is meant to ensure that the Committee's recommendations are acted upon, and that the Parliament will be informed as soon as possible, where appropriate, of the steps taken to implement the Committee's proposals. In this context, the Committee welcomes the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  requiring departments to respond quickly to the recommendations made by parliamentary committees, as some delays have been experienced in the past by the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee is currently considering additional procedures to ensure that its recommendations where appropriate for the improvement of administration in the Public Service are in fact implemented. 
In the 157th report the Committee had been critical of the Department of Defence, the Department of Education, the then Department of Manufacturing Industry and the then Australian Council for the Arts. Tractors were required by the Department of Defence to be airportable, but were subsequently found to have insufficient clearance to fit in aircraft intended to carry them. Further, the Committee noted that the poor design features of transportable homes purchased for a Royal Australian Air Force base made them very expensive to demount and relocate. 
The Department of Education failed to obtain ministerial approval to extend the broadbranding of incomes when calculating living allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. The Committee was particularly critical of the lack of adequate training and supervision, and the high turnover of staff in the salaries area of the departmental administration, leading to a very high incidence of errors in payments. In relation to the then Department of Manufacturing Industry, the Committee was particularly critical of aspects of the Production Performance Allowance scheme introduced by the then Department of Supply into its factories in 1964. There was some disagreement between the now Department of Productivity and the Committee over the use of terminology in the Committee 's report. 
I wish to emphasise that the Committee is concerned to obtain at all times complete and accurate information. Evidence to the Committee is given under oath and it is the responsibility of witnesses to ensure that the information provided is correct. The Committee has stated repeatedly that where departments discover that evidence is deficient a supplementary submission should be provided, prior to or during a public hearing, or to clarify and amplify previous evidence. The Committee also considered criticism by the Auditor-General of a number of unsatisfactory features relating to the expenditure and activities of the then Australian Council for the Arts. In spite of an apparent general acceptance of the Committee's recommendations by the now Australia Council, the Committee still has reservations as to whether proper controls are being maintained. The Committee proposes to keep a close watch on the activities of the Australia Council. 
When I tabled the last reports from the Committee at the end of the 30th Parliament, I drew the Parliament's attention to two matters on which the Committee had not reported. These references are still before us. They are: The Committee 's inquiry into the administration and financing of property owned or leased by the Australian Government overseas and the use of automatic data processing in the Commonwealth public sector. In relation to the former reference the Committee has recently completed the taking of further evidence and will be in a position to report in the Budget session. 
Senators should be aware that the Committee regards the inquiry into automatic data processing as an extremely important inquiry. It is a major growth area of Commonwealth expenditure for which no detailed figures are readily available. The cost of MANDATA, the first area on which we intend to report, gives some indication of the growing use of computers. The MANDATA project is a case study which fits well into the Committee's terms of reference for the inquiry, which are: 
1 ) To investigate computing matters raised by the Auditor-General in his report for the year ending 30 June 1 976 and earlier reports. 
In relation to computing in the Commonwealth public sector: 
Inquire into the procedures adopted to identify needs for computing equipment. 
Inquire into the procedures in use to procure computing equipment. 
Ascertain in selected cases the utilisation and effectiveness of installed computing equipment. 
I should like to take the opportunity of acquainting the Senate with the progress of" our investigation into MANDATA. MANDATA is a computer system being developed by the Commonwealth Public Service Board for personnel and establishments covered by the Public Service Act. Its principal purpose is to increase the efficiency of administration and to assist in manpower resource management throughout the Commonwealth Public Service. When complete, MANDATA should replace the traditional labour-intensive manual record keeping. It is expected, by the Public Service Board, to effect significant staff reductions and provide a wide range of management-oriented information concerning personnel and establishments. This, it is claimed, will lead to tighter management within departments, permitting further staff savings to be made. 
A feasibility study of MANDATA was performed in 1971 by the then Management Services Division of the Public Service Board, which estimated costs of the MANDATA project to be $ 10.1m for the equipment and implementation of the system, and $2m to $2. 7m a year to operate it. The decision to establish MANDATA was taken by the Government in 1 974 on the basis of a report of an interdepartmental committee chaired by the Public Service Board, which is responsible for examining the purchase of all computers for departments prior to seeking Cabinet approval. The Government approved, in February 1974, expenditure of $7.2m for the purchase of equipment for MANDATA, to be spread over three years. However, by June 1977, when the Public Accounts Committee became interested in this program, the total actual expenditure was $13.2m, made up of $ 10.6m for equipment and implementation costs and SI. 6m for operating costs. 
Due to the Government's concern about spiralling costs a study was carried out by management consultants in 1 977 and the Public Service Board produced a revised estimate for computer equipment and implementation costs of $25.4m, more than double the 1971 estimate. Operating costs were expected to be $6m per annum, an increase of 120 per cent to 200 per cent on the original estimate. I point out to the Senate that inflation between 1971 and 1977 accounts for only a part of this large increase. If the effects of inflation are removed by calculating the 1971 estimate at 1977 prices, the 1977 cost estimate for computer equipment and implementation is still more than the 1971 estimate by over 1 00 per cent, or $ 1 2m. 
A further matter of general concern to the Committee is whether sufficient scrutiny has been exercised over ADP expenditure by statutory authorities, which are not required to refer computer proposals to the IDC. The original concept of MANDATA in 1971 took into account the inclusion of the employees of the then Australian Post Office. However, when Telecom and Australia Post were established in 1975 these Commissions decided to withdraw and establish their own systems, thereby reducing the total number of personnel to be included in MANDATA by approximately half, and also reducing the viability of the project. The effect on the cost effectiveness of MANDATA following the withdrawal of Telecom and Australia Post concerns the Committee. Of more significance, however, is that these organisations are developing their own equivalent systems, which could cause considerable unnecessary duplication of effort and cost. The Committee proposes to inquire into the reasons why Telecom and Australia Post withdrew from MANDATA; what their plans are with regard to their own personnel and establishment systems; what these systems will cost; and whether it would be feasible for them still to use MANDATA. 
The Committee notes also that the differences in rules and regulations for the 75,000 Defence Force personnel may justify the establishment of a separate system for the Defence Force rather than its inclusion in MANDATA. The Committee will examine this matter further. The Committee also is concerned that there were significant delays and expense involved in establishing a permanent site for the installation of MANDATA and the purchase of equipment valued at $750,000, which is now no longer required for MANDATA. We suspect that it is most unlikely that this surplus and obsolete equipment can be sold. The Committee considers that in the public, as well as the private, sector departmental management should be highly involved in the setting of specific goals for computer effectiveness. The Committee therefore intends to examine the extent to  whir-h  senior departmental management has participated in the assessment of the need for and the planning of projects such as MANDATA. 
It would appear that the Public Service Board in 1971 greatly under-estimated the costs of equipment, development, and operational costs of MANDATA, as well as the development time scale required. In endorsing the Public Service Board's proposals to proceed, the interdepartmental committee on ADP accepted these under-estimates but we have yet to discover the reasons for this decision. As both the Public Service Board and the IDC have a responsibility for reviewing the ADP proposals of other Public Service departments, the Committee will be examining this aspect in detail. 
According to the Public Service Board, at the time of the initial feasibility study the project seemed to be well justified on direct cost savings alone. It appears now that the project is justified only if the management-oriented information which it will supply can be used to effect overall staff reductions in the Public Service. I must stress that an important assumption underlying the calculation of benefits is that improved management in the Public Service resulting from MANDATA will yield overall staff savings of 1 per cent, which is approximately $ 11.8m per annum at 1977 prices. As the benefit to cost ratio on a present worth basis is 1 18 to 100, it would appear to the Committee that, on previous estimating performance, we have good grounds to be sceptical about the anticipated management benefits occurring. 
The 1 977 analysis made by independent consultants is central to the Committee's assessment of the estimates of benefits. The Committee requested a copy of the consultant's report to allow it to look more closely into the assumptions upon which these imputed management benefits are said to have been based. For the Committee to produce a report which is accurate and fair to all concerned, we believe it is essential for us to have access to the consultant's report. I am pleased to be able to advise the Senate that the Prime Minister has asked the Public Service Board to make the report available to the Committee. Previously, the Committee had been formally informed that the report would not be made available on the grounds that such reports are traditionally made on an 'in-confidence' basis to their clients and that reports of interdepartmental committees are regarded as internal working documents and advisings to the Minister. The Committee maintains that it is following its traditional path by requesting documents that have a relevant bearing on the implementaion of Government policy. We do not question and have not questioned the basis of policy but we question the basis of its effective and economic implementation. If committees of the Parliament are to function effectively, there needs to be a high degree of trust between the Public Service and the committees. I am unaware of any case in recent years where committees have been irresponsible in the way in which they used confidential information made available to them. It remains of fundamental importance to the effectiveness of Parliament that its committees have access to all information relevant to their reports to this Parliament other than Cabinet documents. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
I should like to commence by referring to some of the remarks of  Senator Wheeldon  in respect of his understanding of English history and the way in which death duties have developed over the last 70 or 80 years. He referred particularly to a statement by Winston Churchill back in 1909 and made the point that Churchill said that a death tax serves two main purposes, lt serves to support the progressivity of the tax structure by the indirect means of a progressive levy on wealth once a generation. It also directly limits the growth of large inherited fortunes, a trend that most people would agree has undesirable social consequences. I put it to the previous  speaker  that had Churchill been alive today and considered the tax structures of today's modern nations, and Australia's in particular, he would not have come to that judgment. 
If you will listen I will go into that. It is quite clear that the rate of income tax applying in England in the early part of this century and in the 1 9th century and previous centuries, when the great wealth of Britain was established, was very low. I have not had time to check it but, from memory, the rate of income tax applicable in Britain at that time was something like sixpence in the pound or less. 
I am talking about 1909. In that event, it seems to me to be quite inconsequential to draw the conclusion  Senator Wheeldon  has drawn, that whereas there may have been some consideration at that stage to establish a death duty, there would not be the same opportunity for those people who had accumulated wealth to accumulate it under the tax structures that apply today. I think that is the essential difference, and so renders his argument totally inconsequential. 
I am not here to defend  Mrs Thatcher.  The honourable senator had his opportunity to speak on an earlier occasion and made a point concerning Winston Churchill. I have made a point in contrast. A very important element that flows from this point is the principle of equity between taxpayers. It is well known that the form of death duty operated by the Federal Government is very inefficient. It is costly to collect, and I will quote from the records of the Commissioner of Taxation to indicate the percentage of tax collected in relation to the cost of that collection for four different types of tax. In the case of personal income tax, collection costs are about one per cent of the total collected; sales tax is about 0.6 per cent of collections; gift duty is of the order of 8. 1 per cent; and estate duty is of the order of 3. 1 per cent. The proposition I put to the Senate is that in the event of there being such a disparity between the costs of collection, an inequity is imposed upon taxpayers in that those from whom it costs more to collect are in fact contributing more to the community than they ought to contribute in proportion to other taxpayers. I think it is essential to recognise that point in regard to equity. 
The second matter is that the amount of money involved in regard to both estate duties and gift duties is a mere $90m; that is 0.6 per cent of the total taxation collections of the Federal Government. The point arises that some of the States will continue to apply death duties, and I believe that they are in a far better position to levy these sons of taxes than is the Federal Government. For instance, in terms of that element about which I have just spoken, the efficiency of collection and the cost of collection, the States have at their fingertips all sorts of facilities, including valuations of land and their relationship with various business regulating bodies within the community, and they are able to assess these sorts of taxes a lot more efficiently than is the Federal Government. That leads me to the point that we have had a duplicated system for far too long. As one who has been a practitioner in the field of advising people in regard to their estates generally, I can say that this has been an extremely worrying problem in terms of getting efficient processing of estate duty matters. Indeed, it has drawn out affairs for quite a deal of time. That comment applies more particularly perhaps to the State bodies. Although I have said that they are more efficient than the Federal organisations, the States still tend to take a great deal of time in handling the affairs of deceased clients. 
I turn now to some more general points. Whether we like it or not, there is in the community a perceived disincentive arising from the application of death duties. People are affected by the thought that whatever they accumulate they may well lose in taxation to the government in the event of their death. People, particularly those in some key areas of the economy, refrain from developing their estates to the fullest possible extent. That comment is heard clearly whenever one talks to people in the rural community or those engaged in small buinesses. In fact, it is those two areas which have most felt the impact of federal estate and gift duties. The previous speaker mentioned that the estates of only 12 per cent of the people who die in one year are affected by federal duties. It so happens that, of that 12 per cent, most were in small businesses or rural areas. If we look at the position of farmers we find that in 1971-72, whereas farmers represented 4.6 per cent of personal income tax payers and contributed 4 per cent of income tax, they contributed 29 per cent of estate duty. That indicates quite clearly that it is this area which has been most affected by this particular form of tax. 
I was about to come to that point,  Senator Button,  because I think it is important to recognise the point that  Senator Wheeldon  made, that whereas equity depends upon each paying his share, the facts are that those who are in the best possible position to organise their affairs pay less in this area. It is a fact that it is more difficult for small businessmen and rural people so to organise their affairs as to be able to reduce the impact of death duties because, simply by virtue of the occupation that they follow, they need to remain in control of the factors of production- that is, the land itself, the machines that comprise the business or the property. By virtue of that fact it is quite clear that those people are disadvantaged in relation to other people in the community who have a better opportunity to organise their affairs. I believe that that is a significant thing and it is very much highlighted in everyday practice by the activities of the banks and other money lending institutions which require that sort of control to be retained by the operators of the businesses. 
Let me touch on one or two other matters that relate to the whole area of these two taxes which we are discussing today in order to bring to the Senate's attention the state of affairs in South Australia. As honourable senators would know, most of the States are moving toward the abolition of estate duty, or succession duty as it is called in South Australia. South Australia has stated that there will be definitely no movement in that area. However, in the last lear or two the State Labor Government has provided for estates passing between spouses to be free of succession duty. Whilst this is certainly a move in the right direction, it has simply exacerbated the problem that exists for many small businesses and rural people. The reason for that is quite obvious. When these sorts of assets move from a deceased male farmer to his wife, no duty is paid at that point, but on the eventual death of the wife, because of the progressive rates of tax that apply, the whole of that estate is taxed at a far higher rate than it otherwise would have been. Consequently the estate which passes to the eventual descendants, is reduced significantly, to the point of economic unviability. I believe that that is probably a very clever trick on the part of the Dunstan Government in South Australia to ensure not only that it benefits from the great ripoff by way of tax in this area, but also that rural producers are made unviable. . 
It is interesting to compare that doctrinaire approach with the one of  Mr Wran  in New South Wales. I note that on the day following the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that estate duties were to be abolished,  Mr Wran  said that this was directly in line with his objectives in New South Wales. Another South Australian,  Dr Blewett,  a member of the House of Representatives, made his attitude on this matter quite clear in the debate on this legislation on 10 May 1978. He said that under a Labor government- heaven rue the day that occurs- there will be a reintroduction of death duties. He went on to say:   . . this will be done through the reimposition of death duty, the introduction of a wealth tax, by revamping capital gains taxation or a combination of all these actions is something which will be determined in the years ahead. But of two things I am certain. One is that a tax on capital will be imposed. 
So there cannot be any doubt about what the left wing regime in South Australia thinks about this matter. It is in direct conflict with the New South Wales Labor Party on this matter. 
I understand that the present position is that the New South Wales Government is considering the abolition of death duties in next year's Budget. That is the undertaking at present. I conclude by congratulating the Government on what I believe to be a courageous move in the area of death duties. For the reasons outlined, I support the Bill. 
I must refer to the amendment moved by the Opposition that requires an alternative form of tax on capital to be introduced. I point out to the Opposition that there are capital taxes applicable today, whether they are levied by the Federal Government or not. The State Government levies death duties, as I have just mentioned. There are land taxes applicable. There are rating systems imposed by various State governments. Of course, there is the infamous section 26 (a) of the Federal Income Tax Assessment Act which taxes capital very effectively, except for those who cannot really afford to pay it. 
I address my question to you,  Mr President.  Have you received any complaints from Commonwealth Police stationed in Parliament House concerning the lack of adequate accommodation for meal areas and mustering purposes? I understand that for the 59 officers, including four policewomen, the total area provided is only 187 square feet and that there is insufficient seating and locker space. Will you undertake a review of the problem which may have an effect on the morale of the force? 
To sit on this side of the chamber and listen to the cliches and tired arguments that have been pouring forth from Opposition senators during the last two hours has been absolutely galling. One would have expected that at least by now they would have found a new basis for their argument. Instead, we have had the same old tired stories that we have been hearing since the Fraser Government came to power in December of 1 975. The Opposition has learned nothing and forgotten little. It remembers full well who created the problems back in 1974 and 1975. It has apparently forgotten that this Government has a policy which is working; that inflation is indeed being conquered; that the defeat of inflation is a prerequisite to establishing a foundation for the solid growth in the economy which is to come. 
Let us examine some of the points that have been made by the Opposition during this debate. The Opposition denies totally that there is a linkage between government expenditure and inflation. Its whole argument is based on the premise that inflation derives from some outside cause and is not generated within the Australian economy. As we know, the very solution that the Opposition proposed when it was in government in 1974 was to spend more money. So we saw government expenditure balloon by 46 per cent in the 1 974-75 financial year and by some 23 per cent in the following year. What happened? Unemployment went through the roof. Inflation went through the roof at the same time. These are facts. Opposition policies have been tried and have been seen to fail. The linkage between government expenditure and inflation was demonstrated clearly during the period when Labor was in office. 
Over history one thing has been certain: an increase in the rate of inflation of any nation has been preceded immediately by a huge increase in the money supply. The factor that contributed most to the increase in the money supply during the four or five years of the Whitlam Administration was the expansion of government expenditure, which was of the order I have just mentioned. Those are the factors that are at the core of the present problem. It is all very well for the three stooges on the other side to say that by now this Government ought to have overcome that problem. The difficulties were created by virtue of the huge wage increases of that time, which were accentuated by the huge government expenditures and the costs caused by shortages in the economy as a result of the Government's diverting resources that would otherwise have found their way into the hands of the private sector. Those costs have been passed on, through wage indexation, to augment the costs we face today. 

 Senator Walsh proudly reminded us, by reading a headline from a newspaper, of the fact that there had been a 1.3 per cent increase in wages- a flow on from the consumer price index. What he was saying was that the costs that have been created in the past quarter will have to be passed on, by virtue of wage increases that must be absorbed by employers, in this quarter. That is an illustration of what has been happening in the economy as a result of Labor's term of office. One quarter's cost rises have been passed on through the wage indexation system to the next, and successively down the line. We find that cost rises are still flowing through from those which originated three or four years ago. Those are the facts. Those are the things that we are still fighting against in order to get the economy back on a sound footing. 
Indeed, the Fraser Government, as a result of successful representations to the Arbitration Commission, and elsewhere, has brought down the rate of inflation from 1 7 per cent or 1 8 per cent to approximately 8 per cent for the March quarter of 1978. We expect that the coming year will produce an even lower figure. I hope that that will be so. It is the key to the economic recovery in Australia, as we now perceive it. We will go on to look at the situation on a worldwide basis. The very problem that Australia faces is that because of competition from goods made overseas, it has been forced to reduce its work force. Simply expressed, consumers in this country choose to buy imported goods. Those factors are still fundamental to our problem. As I think  Senator Wriedt  pointed out earlier, because of the cost problem in the economy, manufacturers are moving into the use of machinery in order to displace workers. That is one of the unfortunate effects of the cost problem which was induced by the other problems which the Whitlam Labor Government brought about in the period prior to 1975. 
The only way in which we can solve the problem of machines displacing workers in factories is to make it cheaper for goods to be produced in Australia rather than overseas. It is therefore of the greatest importance that the Government's policies be aimed at increasing productivity to ensure that unit costs are reduced and consequently that we are able to re-employ workers in other sectors of the economy. This is the thrust of the Fraser Government's policies. The Government is properly spending money on training. It introduced the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training Program and other schemes aimed at training people for new positions. It is in this area that the right thrust has been generated by the Fraser Government. 
A very important aspect emerges if one studies the figures. Very significant taxation cuts have occurred since 1976. Through personal income tax indexation, by the taxation reforms which were implemented on 1 February this year, and which will have a major impact this financial year, a total of S3, 684m has been trimmed off the potential personal income tax bill over the last three financial years. Those reforms have had a huge impact on the position of consumers in the economy and obviously, in the year to come, they will have a very significant effect now that there has been a substantial fall in the level of inflation in the recent financial year. We will see consumers emerging from their shells and starting to buy again. Let us look at some of the production figures for the last financial year. 
One of the most significant features of the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd index for the January quarter 1977 to the March quarter 1978 period is that factory production of all groups, based on an index factor of 1 65 at the end of the January 1976 quarter, is currently of the order of 160. However, during the months of October and November 1977 it fell- 'plummeted' would be a better word- to an index factor of 152 or 153. We all remember what happened in that period. There was the great Latrobe Valley power strike as a result of which production in this country fell through the floor and consumer demand was obviously affected by the lack of confidence created by that huge dispute which had considerable effects throughout the economy. It was factors such as that dispute which interrupted our economic recovery and which need to be borne in mind by the Opposition before it comes in here criticising the positive policies which have been producing the direct results we have seen in the last few months in relation to inflation. Our policies have been praised by no less a person than  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales. An article in today's  Australian  states: 
The NSW Premier,  Mr Wran,  yesterday praised the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  for getting inflation down, dismissed Gough Whitlam's leadership as 'helter-skelter years' . . . 
Those sorts of statements do not come from our political opponents unless they have properly analysed the reasons for making them. Clearly  Mr Wran,  having recently been overseas, can understand the international problems we face, which have been caused by the huge cost rises in this country over the last three or four years. The situation, which is well recognised by him, is that we need to get costs down before we can start reemploying people and that is the foundation on which the economy needs to be built. Our rate of cost increases needs to be lower than it is in other nations. We have seen that as a result of our policies our increase in the consumer price index is falling below that of nations such as the United States of America and Japan and below the average figure for OECD countries. This means that if this trend continues as the months go by it will be easier for Australia to sell on world markets. Consequently we will be able to re-employ people in industries in which they have not been employable because of the disastrous effects of the policies pursued by the Labor Government. 
T refer not only to the level of inflation that was generated by the Labor Government but also to the tariff cuts it introduced in 1973. Tariffs were reduced across the board in such a ham-fisted way as to destroy workers' jobs. They were reduced without consideration having been given of the effects of the arbitrary theoretical decision which was taken. This decision consequently displaced up to 120,000 people in the manufacturing sector during 1974 and 1975. Those jobs were destroyed and have not come back into existence because manufacturing industries have been destroyed. We have only to look at the effect of those sorts of policies on some of the important industries in my State of South Australia. In the white goods industry we find that products are being manufactured from mainly imported components. The problems in the motor vehicle industry stem directly from the theoretical arbitrary decision that had no basis, received no analysis and showed no concern for the unemployed. I am sure that Opposition senators, by their silence, acknowledge that point. It is that same attitude which lies behind the silly comments and the silly motion which have been put forward today by the Opposition. I remind the Senate that the Opposition in its motion has suggested that the reduction of Government spending will have continuing harmful effects on the economy. 
There is only one way in which the economy will regain full health and that is by reducing our cost levels below international cost levels. In that way we will be able to sell on the overseas markets again. We will not be displacing Australian workers by importing goods. Instead we will find opportunities in the world markets because we can manufacture goods cheaper in Australia. We need to capitalise on the huge investments that have taken place in education over the last 10 or 1 5 years to ensure that we develop a higher level of technology allied to a lower cost structure in order to ensure the progress of manufacturing and of our whole industrial base. 
Discussion concluded. 
I rise only to reply to the point made by  Senator Rae.  Very quickly may I just make the point that section 80 would involve an amendment to prevent losses being carried forward to another financial year. If we accept the proposition that the action being taken under this Bill is not truly retrospective, the action which  Senator Rae  suggests would be. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. As InterScan was a research project of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and is now accepted as the international aircraft landing system, can the Minister offer any information regarding the technical development of that equipment? Is there a possibility that electronics manufacturers in States such as South Australia would be considered for the production of equipment or components which may be required? 
I oppose the amendments moved by  Senator Rae  in respect of retrospectivity for this Bill. It seems to me that  Senator Rae  has based his argument on the point that in fact no notice has been given about the type of legislation to be introduced against the Curran-type schemes. The fact is that when we consider the issue we find that a very clear statement was made in the Budget Speech last year, stating that there would be a crack-down on tax avoidance schemes. Not one person in the community who had anything to do with taxation, with accountants or with the business world generally, and who knew something of the Curran-type scheme, would not have assumed that that would have been the first scheme to have been struck down by legislation. 
The point that I believe we have to realise is that in fact- I am not taking it as a separate issue but as a point related to that statement in the Budget- clear evidence was given in a statement to that effect back in 1 974 by Treasurer Crean. All the tears that we have seen in the last few weeks concerning this matter are nothing but crocodile tears. They come from people who were fully aware of the rigours of the game- as Lord Greene put it- which we were playing. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind about that because, clearly, from contacts that I had in the community with people who were seeking to take advantage of Curran-type schemes, the only question in their minds was whether this legislation would be made retrospective. There was no consideration of whether the particular scheme had merit. 
The Government is thoroughly justified in taking the action that it has. Another point that has been made relates to the position of Liberals and the Liberal Party platform.  Senator Townley  and others have mentioned that we are required not to allow retrospective legislation on taxation matters. On the other hand, the same policy, in the same section states that there must be equity in taxation amongst various groups of taxpayers. Consequently, I believe that Liberals have been faced with a dilemma in relation to this matter. But obviously they have to choose what I believe is the greater principle and that is, the matter of equity amongst taxpayers. On that basis I form my judgment about where I stand on retrospectivity in respect of this matter. 
The fact is that the Curran-type scheme has absolutely no commercial realism to it whatsoever. It is totally artificial whereas it can be argued that other schemes do have some commercial realism. I believe this brings us to a very interesting point when we are considering the whole tax avoidance industry as it has become known. We know that today there are people in the community who are in fact taxation scheme wholesalers. They are not legitimate taxation advisers in the sense that they are not advising people to take advantage of a legal situation in order to plan their finances properly for marginal taxation benefits. The wholesalers, the sharks, in the tax avoidance industry come up with a fancy scheme which is designed to rip off all taxation and to deny the revenue any access to taxation on taxpayers income, in respect of not one year, but many years. 
This is precisely the situation that pertains in regard to the Curran-type scheme. Again I hope that the issue of retrospectivity that has been raised in this legislation will make that wholesaling industry aware of the rigour and the rules of the game it is playing. I hope that it does have an effect on the sharpness of the industry's teeth and that in future the Government will stand up against these sorts of operations. I repeat: These are not the legitimate operators in what is known as the tax advisory industry. These people have nothing else in mind but profit for themselves when they come up with some bright idea and peddle it around the market-place as though it were some commodity or other. 
In making up my mind on the question of retrospectivity, I have been very much concerned as to whom we are really supporting in the tax advisory industry. The facts are that the wholesalers who have been flogging these schemes will be let off the hook, will escape from the wrath of their own clients, by virtue of the activity that we have undertaken. We are in fact saving them. They would already have collected large sums of money from their clients and because these schemes will now be over-ruled, the client will tend to blame the Government rather than the wholesaler himself for that action. I believe it behoves us as members of Parliament and of the Government to take as much of a public stance as we can in this matter to draw attention to the activities of these outrageous wholesalers in the tax industry. 
I draw attention to the fact that it will be the legitimate side of the tax advisory industry that will suffer in the eyes of the public unless some action is taken by the Government along the lines of that which we have just taken. The point is that a lot of legitimate advisers would not recommend the Curran-type scheme to their clients because they believe it to be morally wrong. Unless those people are supported by the action the Government is now taking, they will feel let down. They will feel that they themselves ought to get involved in these outrageous schemes because the Government will not stand up for them. Consequently, I believe the Government's action in making this particular clause retrospective to 16 August last year is very much in our interests, the Government's interests and the nation 's interests. 
While we are talking about the issues of retrospectivity in this Bill and the whole question of tax avoidance, I wish to echo some of the arguments put forward by  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright in regard to section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I shall not read out that section again but there is a real need these days to have that section of the Act brought up to date in such a way as to ensure that there is clarity in regard to the understanding of the taxpayer's position on tax avoidance schemes. I hope that the Government will attempt to look into the question of overseas law in respect of the United Kingdom, the United States and perhaps even New Zealand, where the law has recently been amended to provide that tax avoidance schemes are individually proscribed. I believe that that would be a way of getting around the problem and, as I have said, I hope that the Government will take some action in that regard. 
Because of this particular deficiency in our tax law, I believe that we, as a Parliament, are giving far too much power to the Commissioner of Taxation in regard to his discretion on matters affecting tax avoidance schemes. In fact I have been through this Bill and I find that 56 different types of options are given to the Commissioner to form a judgment about a particular situation in regard to avoidance schemes. What this means is that the Commissioner himself, if he is satisfied, will form a judgment about the legality or otherwise of particular arrangements. This is an abrogation of this Parliament's rights and ought to be eschewed at all opportunities by members of parliament. We ought to be as specific as we can in the tax law so that people can properly plan their affairs in a legitimate way and so that they are not put out on a limb, so to speak, and find themselves wanting when it comes to the application of the law in their case. 
I should like to refer to one discretion that I know of that is being exercised by the Commissioner in relation to section 99a of the Income Tax Act. That section refers to the transfer of income to beneficiaries of a trust. Last year we passed legislation in this chamber in relation to will trusts- trusts arising by wills- for the benefit of infant beneficiaries being created artificially on the death-bed by some totally unrelated person. What the Parliament did at that stage was to give the Commissioner a discretion to decide whether or not a will trust created in those situations was legitimate. We now find that in some cases the Commissioner has been exercising his discretion against beneficiaries in those sorts of trusts, quite outside the terms of reference of the legislation which we decided upon last year. In fact trusts that had been created years ago have now been limited in their application by virtue of handing over that discretion. I believe that point has to be recognised as an important issue as far as this Parliament's relationship with the Government is concerned. 
I conclude my remarks by again referring briefly to the situation with regard to section 260. I implore the Government to look at that section to ensure that it is expanded to take account of tax avoidance schemes. A recent case known as Cridland 's case, which is covered by this legislation, is an example of the total limitation of that section. I believe it is something to which the Parliament and the Government ought to pay immediate attention. 
I shall say a few words about the Commonwealth Banks Amendment Bill which is very important from the point of view of small businesses. I commend the Government for introducing this particular piece of legislation at this time, following the promises made before the election in December of last year. It is a step in the right direction. Whilst the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  seems to see this legislation as some sort of bailing-out operation for small businesses that is certainly not the case. I am afraid that he misses the fundamental problem of small business which, of course, came about as a direct result of the Labor Government's period in office. I am referring fundamentally to the question of high taxation caused through inflation and to inflation itself which has caused problems of financing for small business organisations. 
The problems that small business face will not be overcome by a sudden injection of funds through the banking system. We have to overcome fundamental imbalances in the economy, such as inflation, in order to put small business on a sound footing. The purpose of legislation such as this is to provide that small businesses which are discriminated against in the capital markets on a fundamental basis have an opportunity to redress that wrong which is largely brought about by the first call on available funds going to large businesses. It is that problem which this Bill seeks to redress. That is the fundamental issue in this particular matter. It is surprising that this point was missed entirely by the Opposition in assessing the worth of this particular Bill. 
I shall refer to one other point which concerns working capital for small businesses. Certainly, the Commonwealth Development Bank has a history of supporting small businesses of a rural type, and those in tourism from the point of view of providing capital for new fixed asset purchases, that is equipment, plant and so on. One of the major problems which small businesses face is that they find it very difficult, particularly in times of inflation, to finance the expanding needs for debtors, stock and working capital of the sort. That is a very real problem. Whether that banking system can cope with that is something which has been problematical in the last few years. Indeed, most small business have gone broke as a result of not being able to get support from their banks for those sorts of needs. It is a truism in business that businesses go broke in the short term; not in the long term. If they cannot meet their debts today or tomorrow they will go broke. Yet, they may have the capacity to be able to find money in the long term. 
Consequently, I draw that point to the Government's attention. I hope that the Commonwealth Development Bank recognises fully the need to be able to assist small businesses as much as possible in the area of working capital, as distinct from the provision of capital for the purchase of fixed assets. I do not think that the Opposition offers very much by its amendment. Certainly there is a need for further funds to be provided. But as the Government is considering other measures in regard to the financing of small businesses- this is spelt out in the second reading speech- it seems to be inopportune to discuss such an amendment as the Opposition has moved. I support the Bill. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General seen recent reports that the South Australian Attorney-General,  Mr Duncan,  is considering the encouragement of class actions in law? 
Has the Australian Law Reform Commission investigated this question; if so, when will its report be available? 
Has the Attorney-General considered the problems affecting the legal profession in the United States of America, where class actions have developed rapidly in the last few years? 
Will the Attorney-General consider a uniform approach by all States and the Commonwealth to effect any action which might be necessary in this area? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health give an indication of the amount of the very considerable savings to families resulting from the changes to the health insurance arrangements announced in the Budget last night which will greatly offset cost increases? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

I  present the following petition from 1,005 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  of the Australian Senate and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we beseech the Australian Government to condemn the unjust persecution of human rights compaigners in the USSR, and that we bring to your attention the inhuman treatment of the prominent member of the Ukrainian group monitoring the implementation of the Helsinki Agreement, Lev Lukyanenko who was released in 1 976 after serving 1 S years of imprisonment and now has received a repeated sentence for his support of human rights in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. 
Your petitioners humbly implore the Government of Australia to do all within its power to help this prominent Ukrainian lawyer. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science in his capacity as Minister for Science and Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. I refer to reports that the Government proposes to sell Vietnamese refugee boats moored in Darwin harbour. Has the Minister seen a statement by the Mayor of Darwin,  Dr Ella  Stack, claiming that these boats should be burned because of evidence of infestation of a highly active and destructive type of termite previously unknown in Australia, which may have disastrous effects on our timber industry? Has the Minister received a report on this matter? If not, will he request his Department and the Department of the Northern Territory to advise appropriate action? 
It gives me great pleasure tonight to support the Budget which was brought down last Tuesday night in this place as well as in the House of Representatives. I believe that it is a document which sets out the future development of Australia because it attacks the real problems of Australia. As the Opposition has put forward in its alternative Budget, it does not attack some sort of artificial set of circumstances which Opposition members say are afflicting the Australian economy. The facts are that the basic issues have to be attacked, and that is what this Budget has set about to do. I am very impressed with the way in which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has drawn up the document in order to provide long-term, sustainable recovery in areas of vital importance to the economy. It is amazing that the Opposition continually misses the point about what is wrong with the Australian economy. 
Let us look at just a few of the current issues. The Opposition misses the point that the opportunity to create new jobs in this community will result only from the ability of this nation to be able to develop its technology, its skills and a future for its products. Certain industries, well known to Opposition senators and honourable senators on this side, have been destroyed by the activities of the Opposition when it was in government in seeking to achieve higher levels of costs to the community by encouraging wage increases beyond those which the community could stand, by imposing higher taxation levels and by ensuring that the wrong sort of emphasis was given to the development of certain programs in the economy. 
Let us look at some of the real issues which the nation faces at the moment. Let us look at the fundamental issue of unemployment. How did the present unemployment come about? We know that in 1973 and 1974 there was a virtual encouragement by the Whitlam Government to increase cost levels through increasing the level of wages paid in the community. The trade union movement was encouraged to seek wage increases outside the levels which might otherwise have been reasonable. We know that this situation was encouraged through positive policies in the Public Service. We know that these attitudes have flowed on into the various sectors of the community. How is it that the Opposition can stand here tonight and make the point that the only way to achieve new jobs is to adopt those same policies? Tonight the Leader of the Opposition has put forward the views that we should be increasing the level of real wages in the community and that we should be increasing the levels of payments via the taxation system or the Federal Government in order to achieve more activity in the community. Through 1974 and 1975 those policies were seen to fail. There is absolutely no doubt about that. 
We have evidence of this from the 1975 Budget.  Mr Hayden,  the then Treasurer, who delivered the Budget in that year referred specifically to the problem of inflation. He made the point that there was no way to economic recovery through increased Government spending, or by encouraging increased wages in the community or by imposing increased costs on the business community. In the Budget Speech in 1975 he stated: 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
That is the issue which is before the Government today and which has been before it for the last three years, that is since it came to office in December 1975. The consistency of the Fraser Government's policy in attacking inflation has been remarkable. Today the commentators in the community who can be most believed and those who have a full appreciation of the real nature of the problem have appreciated that situation and they have said so. 
Syntec Economic Services Pty Ltd for one and Philip Shrapnel and 
Co. Pty Ltd for another. Let us look at the interrelationship between this basic problem of inflation, the rest of the economy and the way in which it operates. Let us have regard to the key issues. We know that at the moment interest rates are too high. We know that that situation has been induced because of inflation which has been brought about by profligate policies over the last three years of the Australian Labor Party Government. We know that monetary policy needs to be expanded. But how can that happen when we have such a high level of interests rates within the economy? We have a situation where inflation is automatically a factor in keeping interest rates high. We know that interest rates are falling in line with the fall in the rate of inflation. 
We had an example before us yesterday when the Commonwealth issue of bonds brought in some $76m indicating that the community which invests in these things is aware of the fact that interest rates are on the way down. Quite clearly people are getting in now while government bond levels are around 8.8 per cent or 9 per cent which is already some 1.5 per cent or 1.7 per cent below the Commonwealth bond rate which applied some two to three years ago. So we have an indication that the bond rate is about to fall further. That will have a widespread effect throughout the rest of the community. In recent weeks we have seen the huge inflow of capital into building societies. This is a further indication that interest rates are on the way down. We are about to see increasing activity in the housing area. Of course, this is a matter about which the Australian Labor Party- out of time and out of step as usual- this afternoon challenged by its matter of public importance. 
Let us have a look at the way in which inflation affects our position overseas. We know that Australia's policies in developing the resources and in establishing new industries in this country rely very heavily on capital formation and technological know-how brought in from overseas and then developed to Australian conditions. We know that at the present time a policy of the Government is to borrow overseas in order to meet the deficit on the current account in regard to the balance of payments. That has been an issue of very great consequence in the past in order to ensure that the rate of the Australian dollar vis-a-vis overseas currencies is kept highly viable and kept up. Now we have a situation developing because of the lack of overseas activity in the markets.  Senator Wriedt  alluded to a possibility that there will be less demand for Australian goods developing overseas. That is perfectly feasible in the light of the fact- as he said- that Japan has cut back on its development projects and its use of imported materials. We have also seen the possibility that the United States may have some cut backs in its usage of imported materials. 
But this issue really overrides the major point and it is one which  Senator Wriedt  completely overrode, namely, that tied to the question of whether there will be increased volume of materials, resources and goods from this country sold to Japan, to the United States or to other countries is the fact that there is a rising trend in the prices which we gain for these goods. We can see rising trends in beef prices, in wool prices and in other items like that. The matter of the rise in our balance of trade will tend to offset the disadvantage of decreased volume in overseas trade. That is brought about because inflation in this country is falling. In fact, it becomes more profitable for Australian manufacturers and Australian resource exporters to export. Consequently we are finding markets which were not otherwise available. This is encouraged by the Government's policy of the overseas export grants. That policy was announced some three or four months ago. We look to further developments in that respect. 
I make the point that the likelihood of this country developing further markets is very pronounced in that we have the terms of trade continuing to run in our favour. We have decreased inflation in this country relative to the rest of the world so that our manufactured products will be able to find markets which were not otherwise available. This will offset the decreasing demand from overseas countries for Australian products in terms of volume. I am afraid that the Opposition fails to understand those things. It fails to study these basic issues which are before us. These, of course, have been the basic issues which the Government has addressed itself to over the last two and a half years since coming to office. The Government has sought to achieve the reduction of inflation in this country so as to put Australia into a position where it can export goods, where it can achieve new markets and where it can establish a new basis for prosperity. That happens to be the way of the future for Australia's industrial development. 
Australia's market is basically very small. We have a market of some 14 million people and a considerable industrial base to support. The future of that industrial base depends very much on the development of the export markets and our ability to sell goods, whether they be motor vehicles, white goods, other manufactured goods or goods of very high technology, on other markets. It is those things which need to be developed by future government policies. It is those things towards which this Government has pointed itself. Money is being spent through this Budget on overseas grants for exports. As one senator on this side of the chamber, I wholeheartedly encourage that development. I hope that with that money, together with other research and development moneys that are being spent in this Budget, we will achieve new product developments and new ideas to sell on the world markets. 
Let us look a little further at the potential of the Australian economy to overcome the difficulties that have been imposed upon it by virtue of those years of misrule by the Labor Government. Let us also consider a little further the problem of interest rates. We know that the economy is basically dependent upon the ability of private entrepreneurs, private industry, being able to obtain funds cheaply in order to spend on new developments. 

 -If Senator Walsh would care to listen for a little while he might hear a little more about that problem. As he well knows, 120,000 jobs were destroyed by the Whitlam Government in the textile industry, the footwear industry, the motor vehicle industry- you name it- by virtue of policies which produced high cost inputs in industry and consequently developed policies quite opposed to the future of this country. All attempts by the then Opposition to encourage the Labor Government to change direction were without success until  Mr Hayden  became the Treasurer in 1975. In his statement, which I read earlier, he acknowledged that the Keynesian type policies the Labor Government had been advocating were no longer relevant. I come now to the speech made last night by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place in which he put forward an alternative Budget. An alternative Budget- I ask you! First of all, we are going to develop new ideas in the direction of expenditure and, under his policy, we are going to direct some $450m into housing. One thing that is certain is that people will not buy houses unless interest rates are low enough for them to be able to afford to do so, and the interest rates which the housing buyer suffers today have been brought about by the positive policies of the previous Labor Government. Fed through the inflationary policies of three years of Labor Government, those policies created the sort of situation which is now successfully being wound down by the Fraser Government. 
-Bond rates are falling. In fact, they have fallen by nearly two per cent. 
-Senator Walsh is one of those people who always has a crystal ball in front of him. He speaks in terms that sound as though he has all the answers. The fact is that I am not able to predict the exact trend of interest rates tomorrow. What I do know is that interest rates generally will fall as a result of government policy. It is quite clear that building societies are being more heavily funded and will have more money available for housing in the not too distant future. That is clearly evident from the inflow over the last couple of months since the tax season that applied during the 1978 financial year. 
Let us look at some of the points raised last night by  Mr Hayden. Senator Wriedt  referred to the rubbery figures in the 1977-78 Budget. If they were rubbery, I would say that the figures in  Mr Hayden  's alternative Budget have the consistency of chewing gum. We have this sort of thing: A resources tax is to be imposed that will yield $150m. Where are the supporting documents for that? Who is to have this tax imposed upon them? How is it to be imposed? Is it to be imposed on resource bodies only or is it to be determined by virtue of some sort of esoteric calculation of what is a decent return on capital for all sorts of enterprises- large enterprises in the manufacturing sphere, small manufacturing businesses, small retail or commercial organisations? What are we talking about? It is said that it is a resource rental tax. What does that mean? Where is the documentation to back it up? Where is it spelt out? How could anybody in the business community have any faith in the approach of the Labor Opposition when it presents that sort of viewpoint? A resources tax- what on earth does it mean? If the Labor executive has some sort of approach to this I would appreciate hearing about it, as I am sure would members of the business community. They would like to know how they are to be ripped off for $ 1 50m without the Opposition spelling it out in any way. 
A capital gains tax is to be levied and an amount of $300m raised. We heard this evening from  Senator Wriedt  that this is to be raised by virtue of a tax- he did not spell it out in any way; we do not know in what way it is to be levied- on people with estates, I think it is, over $200,000. Is it a capital tax on gains realised or it it a levy on wealth? Are they going to run around with their little note books every 12 months and tot up the wealth of everybody and assess it as a levy? They will raise $300m. I do not know on what basis the Opposition intends to apply the tax and at what rate it intends to apply it, but let us assume it is a 20 per cent tax. That represents gains in the community of some $ 1,500m, a very considerable sum which would have capital gains tax attracted to it. It is very interesting, but I cannot help feeling that the figures have been pulled out of the blue merely to set up some sort of alternative which the public, uninformed as to detail because the Opposition is not providing any detail, might accept and which uninformed journalists might see as being in some way equitable; in fact it is in no way equitable at all. 
Let us look at another figure which has a very chewing gum type consistency. We see an investment allowance at $400m, and yet the Budget provides less than $300m for expenditure on the investment allowance. Somehow the Opposition is going to find $400m- another $ 100m- in order to achieve that objective. In my book it is an amazing piece of arithmetic. Nevertheless, I am afraid it is par for the course as far as the Opposition is concerned. It looks at the question of family trusts and thinks that somehow it is an outrageous rip-off on the community. They do not appreciate that it is merely a vehicle to achieve some sort of equity in the taxation system and that in fact many people organise their affairs in that way in order to protect their family interests in the long run. It is a vital element in preserving the free enterprise economy by virtue of businesses being able to preserve capital within the family. This is a vital element in terms of the development of the free enterprise economy and especially in light of what occurred during the period of the Labor Government- high rates of inflation and rip-offs in taxation generally. 
Let us just look at some of the inconsistencies that the Opposition has in this regard. We note that  Senator Wriedt  was saying that a Labor Government would wipe out the means test on family allowances. Apparently this is going to be a very popular action. The point about this is that the Government has said already that the means test in respect of children's income for family allowance purposes will not apply to children 's income by virtue of the moneys that they earn from newspaper selling and so on. This has been spelled out in answers to questions over the last few days- and answered quite satisfactorily. The very thrust of this son of legislation that will be included in the Budget is to stop any abuses in respect of family trusts and family allowances. Yet the Opposition wants those people who are abusing the system to get away with it. There is a total inconsistency on the part of the Opposition in terms of its approach to the problem of family trusts. Yet it wants us to believe and it wants the people who are listening to the broadcast of the Senate tonight to believe that it has the concern of the little man only at heart. But in fact here the Opposition is adopting a double standard by trying to let off the hook the person who is abusing the family trust system. That is an amazing set of double standards, but again it is consistent with the Opposition 's approach, with its chewing gum figures set out in Hayden 's alternative Budget, which are designed merely to attract some headlines in some newspaper, to present some alternative which does not exist. 
I shall conclude by addressing myself to the more fundamental issues of the Budget. The Budget is well recognised now by the community and is well accepted by the community. Members of the Opposition must have got hives last Wednesday morning when they read the newspapers and found that by far the majority of newspaper editorials supported the Budget and its general thrust. Of course that is one of the things to which we on this side of the chamber are totally dedicated. We find a consistency in this Budget that has been with us since the election of the Fraser Government and which  Mr Hayden  as Treasurer in 1975 acknowledged in the statement that I read out to honourable senators earlier. 
-Then perhaps I had better have some water. I reiterate the general basic thrust of the policy of this Budget- that is, to achieve lower inflation. By virtue of achieving lower costs in the Australian community, by virtue of achieving a lower cost of production, we will be able to sell our goods on the open market, on the world market, better than any other nation. That in itself, by virtue of the improvement in terms of trade that are evident in various products I have outlined previously, will produce a better balance of payments situation, which will in turn improve the value of the Australian dollar versus the rest of the world's currencies, which in turn will improve the capital inflow into this country, which will in turn help to reduce interest rates, which will lower costs to the business community and which will obviously bring about the recovery that we seek. The only way in which we can achieve the ultimate recovery in this economy is by achieving a lower cost structure- lower than that of other nations- not through the alternative strategy that the Labor Party offers. If the Labor Party's offering is anything, it is a burnt offering because it would be a disaster to the Australian community. In fact it has been seen as such. The Australian community, as evidenced by the newspaper editorials and by statements made to me have been quite clearly in support of this Budget. People in Australia recognise the fact that there is still some pain to be borne in this community by virtue of tax increases to put the Australian economy back on to a better basis. That is the only way in which Australia will achieve sound and sustainable development, for the future. 
The Senate is debating the Loan Bill 1978, which is well established as a traditional procedure for transferring the deficit incurred on the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund in order to fund the deficit. It also authorises borrowings up to the limit of that deficit on the CRF. As estimated in the Budget Papers, the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit this year will be something of the order of $ 1,903m. The Bill authorises borrowings of up to $2,000m, only slightly more than the anticipated deficit.  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out the difficulties that occurred when his Government was in office in 1975. Might I say that in terms of underestimating revenues and expenses, whereas the Hayden Budget in 1975 estimated a deficit of some $2, 800m, from memory, by about October or November it became perfectly obvious that the revenue estimates were not going to be reached and that in fact expenditures had blown out to considerably more than the Budget estimates. It was well known around financial circles that it was expected that the Labor Government at that time would have a deficit by the end of June 1976 of the order of $5,000m, or almost twice the deficit that was budgeted to be incurred during the 1975 year. Yet  Senator Wriedt  has claimed today that there are likely to be overestimates in revenue, likely to be underestimates in expenditure, and that consequently the deficit is going to be far greater than that set out in the Budget Papers. I would like to see evidence of that, bearing in mind that his party has never been well known for its arithmetical accuracy. 
Nevertheless, let us look at the basic reason for this Bill. The deficit, which on a total basis will be about $2, 800m according to the Budget Papers, does and will have a very significant effect on the money markets in Australia. We know that the fact that the Government needs to borrow so heavily in order to fund the deficit and to keep down inflation is a major cause for high interest rates within the community. A dollar taken from the money markets to fund the Budget deficit of the Government has the same effect as charging taxation to the private sector. The dollar is not available to the private sector for its own expenditure. Very significantly then, the deficit- of whatever size, and certainly the lower the better- has an effect upon the money markets and hence the rates of interest available to the general community. It means that interest rates for housing are higher than they ought to be. It means that businesses cannot borrow as cheaply as they might. It also means that families cannot borrow on hire purchase for their cars as cheaply as they might otherwise do. Consequently, this is a major factor in the decision-making process of families as to whether or not they spend more money on white goods, household appliances, furniture, housing, or whatever. It is a very significant figure in assessing the possible ability of families to increase their personal expenditure. 
The interest rate factor is a very significant factor in assisting economic recovery. Might I say, therefore, that the Government's policy of seeking to reduce the deficit as much as possible, and the Budget proposes a decrease in the deficit of over $500m compared with the result in 1978, points the way towards increased economic activity and is consistent with the Fraser Government's policy since it came to power in 
December 1975. 1 congratulate the Government on its policy and its success in being able to achieve such significant reductions in the rate of inflation and in interest rates generally. The bond rates have already fallen very significantly. We know that they were at 10% per cent some two years ago and the latest loan raised a record sum of $760m in the last few days, offering interest rates at about 8.8 per cent or 9 per cent. 
It sounds to me as though the people of Australia have very great confidence in this Government when they are prepared to invest those sorts of sums. It is clear, notwithstanding  Senator Wriedt  's derisory comments, that the overseas money markets have a great deal of faith in Australia since they lent huge sums up to $2,000m last year to Australia on the basis that Australia commands a three star rating in the money markets overseas. Clearly, people in Australia who are investing with the Government and overseas money markets have faith in the policies which the Fraser Government is carrying out. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to support the Bill. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development. No doubt the Minister will be aware of the large number of newly built homes in the metropolitan area of Adelaide which are still unsold and the very high proportion of those which are apartments or home units. Is it a fact that even though such a surplus exists the South Australian Housing Trust is still having difficulties in obtaining suitable rental housing for low income families and that it contemplates the possibility of erecting more houses in this category? Would it be to the advantage of the State, the builders, as well as the consumers, for the South Australian Housing Trust to consider the lease of existing apartments or housing for rental to low income families on a subsidised basis rather than to invest more capital in new building? Will the Minister refer this matter to his colleague urging him to use his good offices with the South Australian Government to encourage such an outcome? 
It is with a great deal of pleasure that I, being one of those of rather light skin, rise to support the Bill. I am one who is particularly concerned about the protection of the skin from skin cancer. I can well recognise that in the past people were precluded from buying skin preparations because of their price. I believe this Bill is a move in the right direction to ensure that people have access to this type of preparation in order to protect themselves from our very hot summers. In the context of  Senator Wriedt  's remarks I also say that it appears to me that his attitude is well worth supporting insofar as there does appear to be a need to ensure that the preparations that are on the market are adequately screened- forgive the pun- by the Department of Health to ensure that they properly carry out the functions for which they were designed. That particular matter is very important since it is possible that people who find themselves using such preparations and not receiving the protection which they believe they are receiving could endanger themselves very greatly unless this aspect is properly taken into account. 
In regard to the broader question of sales tax as it affects the community generally, I just mention one other item which I would like to see incorporated in some later amendment of the sales tax classifications legislation. I refer to the log hauling equipment used in the timber industry. At the moment there is some deal of confusion amongst people engaged in log hauling in my State of South Australia where equipment which, if used in conjunction with a bulldozer or a tractor, would be exempt under the relevant sections of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act either as primary production equipment or as log hauling equipment. A machine which is mobile and, in itself, acts as a picker up of logs and a carrier of logs from deep in the forest to an assembly point, which is not necessarily a timber mill- that particular sort of equipment is called a log forwarder- is not exempt from sales tax under the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. These machines cost something like $90,000 a piece. 
The amount of sales tax involved is quite considerable. I believe that it is an anomaly in the law that sales tax is imposed on the purchase of such machinery when machinery which is doing exactly the same sort of job does not suffer the imposition of sales tax simply because the character of its construction is slightly different. So in effect we are penalising new and modern methods in the loghauling industry by virtue of this anomaly, for which I do not feel there is any justification. I support the Bill, mainly for personal reasons insofar as I have a light skin, as I have said, and in the future I will have the opportunity of obtaining more of the skin products covered by this legislation. No doubt  Senator Bonner,  because of his skin, will not need to patronise that industry very much. 
Firstly, I would like to answer a few of the points raised by  Senator Gietzelt.  The honourable senator put forward the argument that somehow if the Australian Labor Party were in power it would impose a resources tax which would save the ordinary consumer in Australia money, that somehow it would reduce the rate of inflation and that in fact would assist in the economic recovery. I think that anybody with half an eye could quickly see the falsity of that sort of stupid argument, if I may put it that way. As  Senator Geitzelt  would well understand, if a resources tax were imposed it would be a cost on the community. It would be a cost on business. It would impose through the consumer price index further costs on the community simply because in the first place it is recognised that in order to pay the resources tax the price of oil must rise to a level at which it could support such a tax. The essence of the honourable senator's argument is that first of all the price of oil must rise to import parity, otherwise the resources tax would not be applied. The honourable senator views the resources tax as some sort of a claw-back of that increased value; that is all. 
There is no way that the Labor Party can confuse the people of Australia by suggesting that in fact Labor's policies would lead to cheaper fuel. The people who were outside this building today with their semi-trailers and who were complaining about the Budget would not be drawn into that sort of silly argument that comes from the Opposition. Those people know full well that the price of oil ought to rise, must rise and will rise irrespective of what this Government or any other government does simply because as the supply of oil within Australia runs out we will need to find imported oil to replace it, and it is as simple as that. Whether we do it sooner or later we are going to have to pay the cost. The sooner we wake up to that the sooner we will be better off. 
I will just deal with a point that  Senator Gietzelt  raised in connection with the resources tax. The resources tax is a very cunning argument which is put forward by the Opposition to create the impression that somehow the assets out in Bass Strait, on the North West Shelf or somewhere in Australia off-shore or on-shore that have not yet been found belong to somebody who has not yet found them. The situation is that although these assets may be there they simply have not been discovered. If they have been discovered they have not been developed and the oil has not been brought on-shore. Those are the essential points of this argument. It is a question of establishing incentives for people to want to get out there and get involved in the business of exploration, discover the new oil wells which would supply Australia with its own oil in order to ensure that Australia will be able to succeed in the future, have its own source from a defence standpoint and to keep oil prices within the parity level. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  we are used to this sort of thing from  Senator Walsh.  When he argues a case from one side to the other he is inclined to go all over the place, but he does not allow anybody else to expand an argument a little beyond the immediate point of discussion. The issues that are before us, of which this Bill is a part- this Bill is of course part of a larger Budget- include the question of the consumer price index which is a matter that the Opposition totally ignores. While it is recognised by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget that an increase in the price of oil will lead to some impact on the consumer price index in the coming year- that is well recognised in the community- there are offsets in the Budget that will reduce that impact. I mention the changes to health insurance. The new health insurance arrangements will assist families in meeting the extra costs which arise from the impact of this type of increase. The fact is that we do not live in a fool's paradise any more. We have to live with the fact that we need to conserve energy, particularly oil, because our whole economy is oriented about that at the moment. We need time to adjust our economy and our industrial structure to new forms of energy. Consequently, we have to pay the costs of that. 
Let me quickly turn to the whole question of motor vehicles and the use of fuel in Australia.  Senator Collard,  who is very experienced and expert in the matter of design rules for motor cars, mentioned earlier this afternoon emission controls. I believe that  Senator Young  also mentioned this. We know that in Australia these things have been imposed over the last three years, I think, on motor vehicles manufactured in Australia and on imported vehicles. The fact is that emission control systems have significantly increased fuel consumption which means greater costs for the motorist. Quite apart from that, there has been a depletion of the supply of oil and fuel within Australia. It is a very significant factor not only in the development of the motor vehicle industry itself but also very much an imposition on community assets of crude oil in wells which are yet to be discovered and those which have been discovered. The fact is that without the degree of emission controls that have been implemented in Australia we would be able to save a considerable amount of fuel. It could be of the order of 15 per cent to 20 per cent of current motor vehicle fuel consumption. That would be a significant factor in moving towards improved conservation of crude oil. 
I turn quickly to the more important question of the motor vehicle industry itself. It is clear that the imposition of new design rules in recent years has had a great impact on the price of motor vehicles at a time when the cost of vehicles to the public was inflating as a result of other factors, such as wage demands in the community generally. Coming on top of these other factors, the imposition of new design rules has reduced the demand for motor vehicles and people have put off purchasing new vehicles the prices of which have been inflated by these factors. We know that people have retained vehicles for longer periods than they otherwise would have done. This has caused lower employment in the motor vehicle industry and has had an effect on regional areas, particularly in the metropolitan area of Adelaide in my State of South Australia where two of the largest car manufacturers in Australia are located. 
I should mention the role of the South Australian State Government in this regard. As we well know, the Dunstan Government in South Australia refuses to consider the reduction of emission controls, with the effect that Adelaidians and other South Australians are not able to find jobs in the motor vehicle industry to the degree that would have been the case had these controls not been so rigidly imposed. I understand from information given to me that the Premier and the South Australian Government are absolutely adamant on this matter, preferring to trade off costs against some theoretical political advantage that the Premier sees in maintaining emission controls on motor vehicles. That aspect ought to be examined by the Federal Government in an attempt to have State governments, particularly the South Australian Government, see the light and come to some arrangement whereby the design rule requirement may be alleviated in some way. 
I return briefly to consider the resources tax because it is one of the key issues raised by the Opposition tonight in the debate on this Bill. The matter of the resources tax arose very largely because we have seen what the Opposition calls windfall profits emerge in favour of those companies which have control over old oil, that is, oil which already has been discovered. The increase in the price that these companies charge the consumer through their various marketing organisations accounts for the increased profits in the industry. The Opposition would like to see most of those profits stripped off in favour of the Government. The point we must recognise here is that Australia has not yet discovered sufficient oil for its future needs. The next round of exploration and the next round of development of" oil wells in Australia will cost significantly more than did the last round of development, particularly the development in Bass Strait. We have only to look at the example of the WoodsideBurmah off-shore development on the North West Shelf. If it comes to fruition there will be of the order of $3,000m invested in that venture. What company in its right mind would invest in such a major project and take the risks involved unless it saw an adequate return? That development will take many years just to plan even before it becomes a reality in the sense of establishing drilling rigs in those deep waters. 
As the supply of oil in Australia diminishes, exploration will have to extend further beyond the coastline, further into deeper waters, and this in turn will be more costly. Obviously we need to keep up a pool of expertise within our oil exploration companies to ensure that we can go on discovering more oil. It is clear to me that those companies will survive only if they are given an adequate return on the investment which they make, bearing in mind that the cost of development is rising quickly and is likely to rise faster than the average cost increase in the community as a whole. Consequently it is only proper that adequate profits be earned by such companies to provide them with sufficient capital for further investment in future exploration and development. It is that factor which the Government has recognised in assessing the applicability of a resources tax, and I commend it for announcing in the last couple of months that it would not apply a resources tax. That decision will be of great importance to this nation as it will lead to further development of our resources. Related to that development will be the element of expertise within our oil exploration community which is so important to the future of this nation. 
I finish by referring again to the fool's paradise within which the Opposition would have us believe we are able to exist. Australia needs to face up to the fact that in a very few years time we will have to import considerably more oil than we do at present and we will have to pay the price for doing so. Consequently the movement towards import parity in this and accompanying legislation, which will come later, is essential for a proper understanding of future movements in the community. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer refers to the recent Government loan, which closed on 2 1 August. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the details of the loan? Is it a fact that cash subscriptions to this loan constituted an all-time record? Could the Minister say whether, with this Government's credit rating both at home and overseas so high, the August loan result will help create the circumstances for further reductions in interest rates? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a report in the  Australian  of 10 September that members of a commune in Carlton, Victoria, are investing surplus funds of $500 arising from a combined fortnightly unemployment benefit of $720 in speculative situations listed on the stock exchange, and that the group is earning spectacular profits? Would such profits be regarded as personal exertion income of the members of the group for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act? Would such income classify the commune members as self-employed and accordingly ineligible for the unemployment benefit? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to the very considerable problem of unemployment among partly-skilled juvenile females, who in previous times found jobs in offices of insurance companies, business houses, et cetera, as office juniors to undertake such tasks as running messages, filing, et cetera. Is it a fact that because of the clerical awards now applicable to such employees and the very narrow margin between that wage category and adult wages, most employers decline to hire such people for such relatively simple jobs which, however, do provide valuable work experience? Recognising the problems associated with awards covering this area, will the Federal Government consider giving support to, and making appropriate representations for, the adoption of a special award level of wages pitched between the rate of applicable unemployment benefit and the lowest rate applicable to employees under the clerical awards to cover the category of office juniors? Does the Minister agree that such a level of wages, which would be appropriate to the skill required, would encourage employers to hire more female juveniles? 
This afternoon I would like to touch on a number of matters mainly affecting South Australia. Before doing that I would like to comment on a few remarks of  Senator Georges  to highlight the huge mountain that he is making out of a molehill in respect of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  Clearly the thrust of  Senator Guilfoyle  's remarks in the days following the Budget in August were along the lines that the Government had no intention of catching in its net the wages and earnings of newsboys or children in that situation. That was the thrust of her argument at that time. I understood her at that time clearly to say that that being so and this being not the intention, the 
Cabinet would consider the matter again. That has now happened and a report was made today to the effect that the maximum amount involved has been raised to $20 a week. The only point I am seeking to make in this regard is that if  Senator Georges  is seeking to cast aspersions at  Senator Guilfoyle  he is certainly on the wrong track. Clearly she has nothing to answer for in this regard and her statements in August followed by the one today clearly are consistent. 
The other matters that I would like to touch upon are the problems which the nation faces because of the extension of technology in industry. There is a paradox in Australia's industrial climate today. Unless it extends its technology and becomes more efficient- super efficientcompared with some of the nations of South East Asia which are expanding rapidly this country will fail, will not grow and the standards of living of its inhabitants will not improve. The paradox lies in the fact that by doing that it is possible in the short term that workers will be displaced. I stress that it is that short term aspect which is of great consideration and importance when looking at this matter. The problem that Australia faces is how to cope with that short term movement. Clearly if Australia can become super efficient and rely on heavier levels of technology than it has up to now more jobs will be created. This must follow from the extension of its export markets. If we can sell goods cheaper than other nations on world markets we must create more jobs in Australia. The question of scale is the answer to Australia 's problems plus the fact that technology will help us to lower our costs and so allow us to sell goods more efficiently on the world market. 
It has been argued by the Opposition that the question of technological advance in industry is all one way; all that it will do is destroy jobs which will not be replaced. The reverse is the truth. In fact if Australia becomes more efficient than other nations we will be able to extend our operations on the world scene. It is interesting to note that even though in the last month the total value of exports has drawn closer to the total value of imports to Australia- in fact the gap has decreased- the proportion of exports of manufactured goods has risen. This is something that some people may have ignored. Our potential for selling manufactured goods on the world markets is rising. It will continue to rise as we beat inflation and get our cost structures back on to an even keel. We know the reasons for that and there is no need to go into that matter now. 
On a narrower scale, those problems of the scale or volume of production and the application of technology have particular application to my own State of South Australia. As you would know,  Mr President,  the State of South Australia exists because in the past it had a cost advantage in production which could offset the cost of exporting goods from that State to markets interstate and overseas. Had that advantage not existed South Australia never would have been able to create the industries that it has. In 1970 the actual difference in the cost of production of goods in South Australia compared with goods manufactured in other States was 12 per cent. Today that difference has decreased to some 5 per cent or 6 per cent. Because of that and because freight costs represent roughly 7 to 8 per cent of the cost of production of manufactured goods, there is now no advantage in manufacturing goods in South Australia and transporting them to other States. For that reason South Australia is facing a crisis of confidence in industry. There are many reasons for that. I want to come back to those in some detail in a few moments. Clearly some people need to answer for this situation. 
South Australia's advantage in terms of costs was derived over the years from careful husbandry, particularly by the former Premier of South Australia, the Honourable  Sir Thomas  Playford. He was in power for 26 years in that State and created a situation based on the simple reality that one cannot sell something at a price which is more expensive than that for which somebody else can make it. Consequently he ensured that goods were made more cheaply in South Australia than in other States. This was done in a variety of ways: Firstly, by keeping the State taxation low; secondly, by ensuring that there were good industrial relations in the State. Thirdly, the wage levels which were somewhat lower than those in other States were compensated by a cost of living which was lower than that in other States. That situation existed for more than 40 years. The genius of  Sir Thomas  Playford in this regard was that he recognised that most of the component of the cost of living for the ordinary average family derived from the cost of housing. Consequently, by careful management of the housing market in South Australia, particularly through the activity of the South Australian Housing Trust, the codes operated by builders and the constant communication and consultation between the builders and the Government, we ensured that housing costs were kept at a low level. Furthermore, there were important extensions to the means of financing houses through the State Bank of South Australia. 
These arrangements existed in our State for some 30 or 40 years. They were the idea of  Sir Thomas  Playford. The savings that were made in housing and food and in the cost of living generally in South Australia more than compensated the wage earner there for his average weekly earnings which were somewhat lower than those of workers in other States. That was the germ of the idea that created the industrial miracle in my State. By ensuring that the worker did not suffer and by allowing a cheaper cost of production, we ensured that South Australian industry could survive and develop. 
It is clear that the advantage which prevailed before the Dunstan Government came to power in 1970 has disappeared, and clearly the State has suffered a crisis of conscience and confidence in its industrial future. I put it to the Senate that the problems of my State arise directly from the policies of the Labor Government in South Australia. I have just to refer to one or two statistics which highlight the movements that have occurred. Let us look at the consumer price index of South Australia and compare it with the consumer price index for the rest of Australia in the period 1970 to 1977. In that period the index in South Australia increased by 216 per cent; the increase for the rest of Australia was only 210 per cent. Average weekly earnings in South Australia were 209 per cent greater in 1 977 than in 1 970; the figure for the rest of Australia was only 204 per cent. Not only had wages in South Australia increased faster than wages in any other State, but also the worker in South Australia was disadvantaged to an extent greater than a worker in any other State. As a result, the worker in South Australia has not improved his position by virtue of the policies of the Labor Government at all; in fact he has suffered by them. He has been affected by the consumer price index to an extent greater than a worker in the other States. 
Average weekly earnings are the key to the factors that I mentioned earlier in connection with the cost of production in South Australia. Yet, wages have risen faster in South Australia in the seven-year period of the Dunstan Government than in any other State. Honourable senators might say that 5 percentage points is a fairly marginal difference, but we are talking about marginal differences. South Australia existed because it had a marginal advantage previously, not because it had some inherent massive advantage such as being close to a market or having huge natural resources like water or minerals. It had nothing of the sort; rather it had to manufacture an advantage out of the things available to it. Consequently, the Liberal Government of South Australia, which was in power from 1938 to 1965, encouraged and developed those ideas. These marginal factors were the lifeblood of South Australia. They have been destroyed by the Dunstan Government. 
Is there any wonder that there is a crisis of confidence in South Australian industry? It is pretty clear, even today, that people are thinking seriously about moving their factories away from South Australia. Clearly, with the loose statements emanating from the Premier about the introduction of industrial democracy, without giving any reasons for or background to the proposal but suggesting that all companies in South Australia will have to have one-third of their board of directors appointed by the Government, one-third appointed by the trade union, and the shareholders, if they are lucky, will get one-third representation on their own boards, is it any wonder that the owners of business are thinking about moving to other States? 
It might be a little hard to blame  Mr Dunstan  for all this. Indeed, we cannot do that. Clearly, he is under pressure from the left wing of his own party in South Australia, and particularly from people like the Attorney-General,  Mr Duncan,  who has some advanced ideas on industrial development. Clearly we have to consider a few of the factors that the Premier of South Australia has promised to the people of the State and never delivered. In 1970 he said to the people of South Australia: 'South Australia needs to broaden its industrial base. It needs to be less dependent upon the motor vehicle industry and the white goods industry. In fact, we ought to extend our industries into more broadly based technologies. We need to become more efficient than other States'. Those were very laudatory remarks. All of us at the time agreed with them. We hoped, as indeed the people of South Australia hoped, that this bright new fancy pants of a Premier would deliver the goods when he came into power. So, he was elected to government in 1970 on these promises. We have not seen any evidence of a new industry, whether of super technology, super efficiency or otherwise, being delivered to the scene in South Australia at all. In fact, the movement has been the other way. 
The Dunstan Government policies on workers' compensation, higher taxation and other areas of concern have diminished the industrial base that was strongly established in the State. The Dunstan Government has failed dismally in producing the answers to the State's longer term industrial policies. If the Government in South Australia cannot produce the answers another party ought to be given the chance to produce them. Last February, following the Address-in-Reply Speech, I made a plea to the Dunstan Government to change its policies, to cut back on its high taxation policies, not to put so many people into the Public Service thereby imposing higher costs on the people of South Australia and to reduce the outrageously generous workers' compensation insurance scheme that was operating in that State. Far higher costs were imposed on the business community in South Australia than in any other State in an attempt to try to awaken it to the need to change its direction so as to save South Australian industry. But nothing further has happened. Nothing has changed. The South Australian Government still goes on offering the same platitudes, believing that somehow we will save ourselves as long as we stick to socialism. 
Around about that time- I think it was about the time of the 25 th anniversary in Parliament of the Premier of South Australia- he was reported as having said that we were going to move forward to become the centre of head offices for all Australian businesses; that business executives and people who run business organisations throughout Australia would want to come and live in South Australia, particularly in Adelaide, because of its magnificent climate. He said that we were going to establish a new industry based on these tertiary industries. I hasten to add that that remark received an absolute panning from the business community and from many other persons in the community at that time. In fact, I recall that  Mr Allen  Swinstead who is the Executive Director of the Metal Industries Association of South Australia in Adelaide, said in reply that the Premier's aim to make South Australia a centre of tertiary industry is a politician's dream.  Mr Colin  Branson, the General Manager of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry S.A. Inc., said that if the Premier wants to attract tertiary industry he should shut up about industrial democracy.  Mr John  Roche, an Adelaide builder, said that business leaders in other States tend to think of South Australia as a leper colony. 
-Mr John Roche. 
-He is a former Lord Mayor of Adelaide. That shows how much the honourable senator knows about Adelaide. 
-Perhaps the honourable senator does not care, but other honourable senators in this place care, including honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. Indeed, this being a States House, I believe that we have every right to discuss these matters. These sorts of problems that exist in the industrial scene of South Australia can be solved neither through radical action, nor by pulling solutions out of the sky. The whole problem of South Australia revolves around the need for us to get down to facts and to work with what we have. South Australia is short of natural resources. Therefore we need to ensure that we develop the State properly, paying careful attention to the factors in production that ensure that we can sell our goods on interstate and overseas markets in order to improve the living standards of the people who live there.  Senator Ryan  is not interested in the living standards of people in South Australia; no doubt she has other constituents to worry about. But, as I said, there are honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who are just as worried about this problem as I am. Indeed, from time to time they have expressed their views on this matter here and in other places. 
I pass on from that point to mention one or two other problems which exist in South Australia at the moment. We know that whilst South Australia is short of natural resources, there are opportunities for development in our State. We know, for instance, that the establishment of petrochemical works at Redcliff would offer quite a real possibility for development in South Australia. We look forward to the decision of the Loan Council in this regard, which can be only a matter of weeks away. The development of this project will require the Federal Government to allow South Australia to borrow some $200m in order to provide the infrastructure in the Redcliff area around Port Augusta. A number of complex problems are associated with this project, but I shall not go into them because they have been well and truly canvassed on previous occasions by my colleagues,  Senator Young  and  Senator Jessop.  Development of this project in the north of the State will offer great opportunities for us to diversify our industrial base in South Australia and so ensure that we can attain the ideal which the Premier of South Australia advocated in the earlier part of this decade. 
Another factor in the industrial development of South Australia is the huge reserves of brown coal that we know exist in several unfortunately remote parts of the State. We know of the Lake 
Phillipson deposits and of the deposits near Lock. There are other brown coal deposits in the vicinity of Balaclava. Obviously, these deposits provide potential for the future development of the State. I am very interested in the possible development in the Latrobe Valley in Victoria of a German method for the liquefaction of brown coal to manufacture petrol. That seems to me to offer some opportunity for South Australia to move into the production of petrol. But I know that even more technological difficulties would be experienced in ensuring that such a project got off the ground in South Australia than would be experienced in Victoria. The main reasons for that are pretty clear. The distance involved and the delivery problems in our State are particularly difficult in comparison with the situation in Victoria. 
Another potential area for natural resource development in South Australia that is of particular interest- I believe the State Government ought to take this up- is the Roxby Downs area. Roxby Downs, in the northern part of South Australia, is said to have a huge copper and uranium deposit. It is said- I believe that the people who have said this can be relied upon- that the copper ore deposits in the Roxby Downs area are as great if not greater than those at Mount Isa. The problem that the South Australian Government has in facing up to the development of such a project as this is that the copper ore is intertwined with uranium. The South Australian Government, for ideological reasons, is not prepared to consider developing such a project because it would involve mining uranium. We know that the Minister for Mines and Energy in South Australia,  Mr Hugh  Hudson, is on record as having said that he would like to see the project go ahead but that the uranium ore would have to be stockpiled. It is obvious, from statements that have been made by the Western Mining organisation, the operators in the area, that the project would not get off the ground simply because it would not be profitable if it relied exclusively upon the mining of copper. 
It was a very small mine at Kanmantoo. 
It is clear that  Senator McLaren  is a great expert on copper. I notice that he has not mentioned anything about the Burra mine. Clearly those two relatively small operations involve nothing like the sorts of considerations that are involved with huge development at Roxby Downs along the lines I am suggesting. 
-That is the very reason why miners would need to sell the uranium as well as the copper ore. That is the whole point. Consequently, in this particular instance it is up to the South Australian Government to pay regard to the industrial priorities of South Australia. If the South Australian Premier is truly interested in the future development of my State and the State of other honourable senators, including honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, he will take action- soon, I hope- to ensure that the Roxby Downs development gets off the ground. There are other potential developments which, of course, are too ideologically hot for the Dunstan Government to touch as well. They are matters of sheer daytoday politics as far as that Government is concerned. For instance, the South Australian Government will not consider the development of a uranium enrichment plant in South Australia, although it talked about it in the days of the late  Mr Connor.  Now, purely for political reasons, it will not proceed with such a project. 
If it can win the next election, which I seriously doubt at this stage because of the lack of popularity of the Dunstan Government, it is quite possible that the uranium enrichment development will get off the ground. That may happen if the Government feels that it is politically safe for it to do so. That Government 's ability to jump about and change its mind on various issues has been demonstrated clearly ever since it came to power. Of course, we all remember that the Dunstan Government came to power in 1970 on the promise: 'We will build Chowilla'. 
-Yes, it did. 
It was not.  Senator McLaren  is an expert on matters connected with water, feathers and things of that sort. The point I make, and I make it simply, is that when  Mr Dunstan  became Premier he changed his mind overnight about whether we would have a dam at Chowilla. He accepted the recommendations which had been taken up by the Hall Government during the period from 1968 to 1970 and accepted the same recommendations to put the dam at Dartmouth. Clearly that demonstrates the flexibility of mind of that Government. 
I am merely stating facts. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations: Is it a fact that the European Common Market authorities require all wine imported into Europe to be tested by detailed analysis by the Market's nominated officials who will not accept Australian certificates of analysis in lieu of their own checks? Does this severely inhibit Australian wine exporters, particularly small wine makers, from developing European markets? Is this further evidence of the ultrarestrictive and unreasonable trade policies of the European Economic Community? Will the Minister undertake appropriate representations to the EEC to obtain agreement that such wine testing be carried out by properly qualified oenological testing centres which abound in wine producing areas? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to statements emanating from Opposition Jeremiahs in this place who have deliberately misled the Parliament and the public about the trends in the volume of lending for housing and the trends in the rates of interest applying to such loans. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the latest indicators in relation to lending for housing? 
I support the Departure Tax Bill. I was very interested to hear  Senator Wriedt  's support for the measure. Indeed, I think that he said most of the things I wanted to say. However, I will expand on one or two points he mentioned. Firstly, I am very interested to see that an effective means of collecting this tax, which will not cost a great deal to administer, has been worked out. Obviously, with a tax of only $ 10 a head it would be very easy to organise a tax collection system, the administration of which would run away with the greater part of the proceeds if it were not thought through very carefully. I believe that the tax stamp approach is a good step in that it appears it will be relatively easy to arrange for agents and airlines, as well as the Department of Transport, to collect the tax. There may be other taxes which could be approached in the same way in terms of collection in view of the fact that this must be one of the simplest and certainly one ' of the cheapest ways of collecting taxes. 
The matter of whether this form of tax will be a deterrent to people wishing to travel overseas ' has been canvassed. I am pleased to see that the Government has selected the sum of $10 a head, which I do not think will be a deterrent. Had the sum been greater than that it could have been something of a deterrent for families with four or five children travelling overseas in a group. Such families could have been rather seriously affected by a charge running up to $ 100 or $200. The point  Senator Wriedt  made about New Zealand is a very interesting one. Obviously an attempt is being made to control the outflow of capital by virtue of this sort of arrangement, and no doubt other countries in the world adopt the same sort of procedure. However, on the whole, I believe the Government was wise to select a figure of $ 10, which will not impose a great hardship on Australians or on visitors to the country. Whilst it is somewhat above the charge being levied by countries such as the United States, where it is $3, and even Israel, where it is $5.70, it certainly is not going to be a huge burden on the community. 
May I commend the legislation. I should also mention quickly the problems of the tourist industry, in which all honourable senators, particularly those on this side of the House, are very interested. The problems of the tourist industry affect my State as well as  Senator Wriedt  's State of Tasmania. Every dollar that can be brought to South Australia must be regarded as a captive one and is very important in keeping our economy afloat at the present time. As to a tax such as this having an effect on traffic to and from South Australia, I will be very surprised if that comes about. However, no doubt the impact of other government measures in relation to the economy will have an even greater effect on the success of Australian tourism insofar as inflation will be reduced and therefore the costs incurred by people travelling to and within parts of Australia will be reduced and opportunities will flow from people being able to spend their money more easily. I support the Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Science noted recent Australian National University tests concerning the weaknesses of properties of some sunglasses which show that they inadequately filter harmful rays of the sun, and the exhortations of some medical consultants that squash players should wear protective spectacles? In the light of the Minister's most recent experience concerning eye protection, is he able to comment on the value of these suggestions? If he is not able to do so, will he please investigate the evidence on this matter with a view to possible regulation under the Trade Practices Act? 
Listening to  Senator Button  speak in the last few minutes, one thought that he was going back about four years to the years of the Labor Government, particularly during the period when there was so much confusion in the policies of that Government and certainly in its legislative program that taxation measures and economic measures of all sorts were being changed by the Caucus almost weekly. The Labor Government became so disreputable that it lost the election with such derision in the eyes of the public in December 1975. Certainly the one great thing about the Fraser Government since it came to power in December 1975 is that there has been consistency in its policies right from that time. In fact, the Government's aim has been to reduce inflation as a prerequisite to the reduction of unemployment and the creation of a climate for further investment in this country. That is precisely the strategy contained in the Budget which sets out quite clearly the economic objective of encouraging overseas investment and determining a better value for the Australian dollar on the world market, thereby ensuring a growth in the Australian economy. Of course, if one reads statistics which have emerged recently, for instance the retail sales statistics, one finds that there have been real increases in retail sales in the last 12-month period in all States, except South Australia where there has been a real fall in the last 12 months. That, of course, is consistent with State Government policies in that area. 
Let us have a look at some of the particular matters which were raised in this debate by  Senator Button  and, in particular, the matter of personal income tax. As  Senator Button  rightly said, it would be a very popular government indeed which decided that it would go to the people in any election process and declare that it would cut taxes or remove them altogether. 
Poujadists exist only on the other side of the chamber. As I was saying, the degree of consistency in the Liberal Government's policies since 1975 has been perfectly evident. Its aim of reducing the deficit and reducing interest rates has been consistent with its policy since 1975. Consequently, the Government, when faced with a possibility of a very difficult deficit situation, grasped the nettle and in fact imposed an unpopular increase- an unpopular surcharge- in income tax of  V/i  per cent, at a time when obviously it was very difficult to educate the public to accept a higher level of taxation. Clearly, the claim of the Australian population is for lower taxation. That is, of course, amongst all people except members of the Opposition. We can well remember the clear statements by  Mr Willis,  the economic spokesman for the Labor Party, in Brisbane a matter of three, four or six months ago when he claimed that the Labor Party had to spend more time educating the Australian population and that it was a good thing to pay more taxation. 
Honourable senators opposite cannot deny that. These are tenets of their philosophy and their policy: Higher taxation in order to increase the size of the public sector. The earnest of that is the fact that during the period 1973 to 1975 we saw taxation increase by over 100 per cent. When we consider it in that light- when we consider which party is in fact a low tax party and is dedicated to the reduction of income taxes- we find that for the first time in 20 years this Budget results in a real decrease in income tax. 
-This is the first time in 20 years that income tax has decreased. That is after taking into account the personal income tax indexation and, of course, the income tax cuts which were introduced bravely in February 1978. If one considers that situation- that this Government, faced with an extremely difficult position, increased income tax rates by  Vh  per cent across the board as a temporary measure for one year only- one will find that even after that increase there was still a net saving, a net reduction, in income tax in the Budget , for this coming year. 
-That is perfectly true.  Senator Gietzelt  should have a look at the tax figures.  Senator Gietzelt  says that that is untrue. If he looks at the Budget Papers he will see that the increase in revenue from personal income tax expected this year is about 6.7 per cent. In fact, the expected inflation rate, as predicted and mentioned in various discussions around the place, is about 7 per cent. That represents a real decrease in income tax collections. Perhaps  Senator Gietzelt  ought to look at his mathematics a little more closely. 
Let us have a look at some of the pluses paid on the income tax side. The  Vi  per cent surcharge is a matter of some concern. It is certainly something which I do not believe anybody in the community would enjoy paying. For a person on the average wage level of, let us say, a little over $200 a week, the average cost will be about $ 1 50 during the current financial year; but offsetting that is the saving which the average taxpayer will be making in respect of his Medibank payment. A Medibank levy payer will be saving  2Vi  per cent on that figure, or a maximum of $150. The average person- the Medibank levy payer- will come out square with the increased costs. Overall, he will not be suffering any further charge. If he decides to take out private health insurance on top of that, that is his own decision, and rightly so. 
That example illustrates the consistent attitude of the Fraser Government. It puts the decision making process as to the people 's future in their own hands. That has been a consistent policy objective since this Government came to power. In the light of that example, let us look a little further at the position of people who are contributing to private health funds now. A middle income earner who is on the highest medical benefit table is going to save something in the order of $4 a week, according to the statements made by the private health funds last week. This means that about $200 will be saved in a year. If he has a total taxable income of $15,000 he will be paying about $225 extra in income tax. His net cost is therefore $25. These points are not clear nor have they been made clear by the Opposition. Rather of course it takes the sensational publicity seeking line of trying to create some sort of impression in the community that disaster lies ahead. In fact it is quite obvious from the way in which the Budget has been received in the stock exchanges and overseas that it is clearly establishing a basis for sound investment in the Australian community. 
-Senator Gietzelt talks about the Australian people. We must remind him that the Whitlam Government created an unemployment level of over 200,000 people. Those jobs cannot be brought back through the Opposition's sorts of policies. New jobs need to be created. We should look at the amount of capital required today to create new jobs. I cite the example of the Redcliff proposal in South Australia. To create 700 new jobs in the Iron Triangle area we need to spend $ 1,000m. That is an extra cost of over $1.3m per job. In future Australia needs to encourage more capital- not to deny it- to provide more jobs. The only way in which we are going to create a viable economy is by starting all over again from the Whitlam mess and creating a whole, new range of jobs and industrial structure. Accordingly, the Fraser Government's policies are aimed in that direction. 
Let us look at the other areas of legislation before us today. I mention particularly the matter of taxation of lump sum retirement payments in regard to unused leave, particularly annual leave and long service leave. Prior to the Budget coming down there was a considerable amount of confusion in the minds of the public, fostered by the Labor Party and certainly by the Press, that the average person would have his superannuation benefits taxed under these new arrangements. In fact, for many years five per cent of superannuation payments have been taxed at the current rate of income tax applying.  Senator Chipp  apparently did not understand that today when he said in his question that five per cent was the amount of tax imposed on unused leave and so on. The truth is that taxation is applied at the current rate to five per cent of the amount received. The point about this legislation and the Budget statement is that this taxation provision does not apply to superannuation payments, nor does it apply to retirement allowances generally, those retirement allowances being of a character different from superannuation. It does apply to annual leave that is accrued up to the date on which a person leaves his employment. That full amount of income which is defined as income in a proper sense will be taxed at the current standard rate of taxation which will be 33! per cent this year or 32 per cent next year. The same principles as applied previously are being applied to the taxation of that form of income. The difference is that instead of only five per cent being taken into account the full amount- 100 per cent- of the annual leave is being taken into account. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I am glad that you are in the chair at the moment because you will not tolerate any interjections. The point here is that annual leave changes in character once it is paid to the taxpayer in that lump sum form. It is not in itself paid as annual leave. The reason it has been subject only to that special provision of five per cent in the past is that employers have calculated a lump sum to be paid to employees at the date on which they terminate their employment in accordance with the formula that is applied to annual leave or long service leave. At the point of payment it was not called payment of annual or long service leave; it was called a lump sum on retirement. That payment then became eligible for the concession that applied to superannnuation and other retirement benefits. In other words it was a tax gimmick. It was an alteration of the character of the payment in order to take account of and receive the benefit of that law. It is as simple as that. Very largely it has been used as a tax avoidance device. 
-Senator Gietzelt might complain about that. I did not think he would be on the side of the tax avoiders generally. 
I just explained to the honourable senator the reason why it has been worked out in that way. It is a practice which has grown extensively over the last few years. 
The second point about the matter is that a person who decides to organise his affairs in a particular way is always at risk in relation to the point at which the law will apply to him when he finally decides to have tax charged on his income. If he decides as a matter of his own judgment to accumulate his annual leave he takes the risk that the rate of tax in respect of that amount, whenever it is received, will change. Let us take as an analogy to the situation a person who normally conducts his affairs on a cash basis- let us say he is a small businessman who receives his income in cash- and who renders his tax returns on the basis of cash received; he does not include the accounts that he has rendered to his customers. Although he has sent a bill to his clients some three or four months before he is paid, whenever that income is received it could be subject to different rates of tax that will apply from that time onwards. 
That to me is a perfect analogy to the situation with respect to annual and long service leave. In fact, there have been people who through their own positive decisions have decided to take the risk on what the rate of income tax would be when they finally received that income. Consequently some people have had the misfortune of finding themselves in the situation of having that increased taxation imposed upon them. I reiterate that this provision does not apply to superannuation payments or to retiring allowances. In fact it applies genuinely to items of annual and long service leave to which it has applied in the past. I am glad to see in the legislation that the concession is retained in respect of deceased taxpayers and that tax at the full rate will not be applied to their spouses. 
I notice that the Government has moved to narrow the gap by which people can estimate their own incomes for provisional tax purposes so as to ensure that there is a closer relationship between the tax finally paid and the amount estimated for provisional tax purposes. I regard that as a perfectly reasonable step, provided that the Commissioner of Taxation is flexible enough to allow for reasonable fluctuations in income and is careful not to impose tax at the higher rate in situations where unusual things happen to people's incomes at the times when they are affected by this proposal. I believe that on the whole the measure is quite reasonable in the way in which it has been drawn. Of course, it is a matter of administration. Therefore, we look to the Commissioner of Taxation to consider individual cases in a reasonable way so as to ensure that no inequity is caused. 
It is a fact of life that the averaging provisions in respect of primary producers are becoming more and more complex in terms of understanding and calculating their effect. Until recently some of us tried to interpret the statements that have been made by the Treasury without having the Act before us. We found it extremely difficult to make calculations. Although the provisions are complicated I am pleased to see that calculations can be made reasonably simply. There is a problem inasmuch as farmers who normally prepare their own taxation returns may find it very difficult to do the calculations in respect of the averaging provisions. Not being trained in accounting, nor being terribly proficient in reading Acts of Parliament, they may find it difficult to understand the nuances of the calculations involved. 
I am particularly pleased to see that the Government has moved to ensure that people who have income from sources other than primary production are limited in their ability to use the averaging provisions of the Act for tax avoidance purposes. It is something which I believe ought to have been done many years ago. However, recognising the reality that farmers will need to have income from other sources particularly in bad years- in a drought year, for instance, they may be forced to work for the local council- a ceiling of up to $10,000 on a shaded-in basis on income from sources other than primary production will be taken into account and will not affect the averaging provisions. I believe that on the whole the decision to introduce this provision is reasonable. It is certainly in the interests of the revenue. 
I now refer to two or three matters which  Senator Button  mentioned. He referred to the taxation being imposed on post-graduate students. As I understand it the amount of a postgraduate award is at present approximately $4,200 per annum. This compares with the threshold of $3,833 at which income tax applies. The average post-graduate award recipient will incur tax at the standard rate- this year 33W per cent- on the difference between $4,200 and $3,833. This is roughly $100. That assumes that the student has no other income or deductions. For instance, if he had a dependent spouse with no other income he would not pay any tax. He would probably be in receipt of family allowance in addition. A student will not be detrimentally affected to a great degree, certainly not to the degree that  Senator Button  mentioned. 
To compare post-graduate awards with incomes that are applicable generally in the community is not the way to look at this particular problem. As we know, under-graduate students who receive allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme receive approximately $1,600 a year if they have no dependants. That compares with the amount of $4,200 which a post-graduate student receives. Surely, if a person is eligible to enter the work force, having gained one degree, and receives from the Government through a post-graduate award nearly three times as much as an under-graduate student who has no job it is reasonable that taxation should be applied to his award. I believe that this is the true essence of the test in this regard. A post-graduate student is receiving extra benefit from the community by receiving approximately three times as much as an undergraduate student. 
I am very much in favour of that. I would be very surprised to find that the amount of $100 was a serious disincentive to post-graduates completing second and further degrees and then finding work in Australia. 
I see that in exactly the same light. I cannot accept the point that  Senator Cavanagh  makes. In the light of that particular comparison I believe that  Senator Button's  point is irrelevant. When questioned by interjection he was unable to give us any estimate of the effect on the average student. I visited a post-graduate organisation at the Flinders University in Adelaide last Thursday to discuss economics. I was very surprised to find that a great number of students regarded this measure with no concern at all. They recognised that they would be paying very little tax. 
I am reiterating my experience in that regard. As I indicated earlier, I support these Bills. I believe that the philosophy behind them is generally consistent with the Government's policy. The Government has faced up to very difficult decisions. Nobody likes imposing heavier taxation. Consequently, the decisions that the Government has made in imposing a surcharge of 1.5 per cent for this year only is a very careful but important decision in ensuring the recovery of the Australian economy. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that, while there is a subsidy for telephone rentals paid by pensioners, Telecom allows no concession in respect of telephone installation costs? Does the Minister agree that the provision of a telephone in the home of an aged or infirm pensioner is no longer a luxury and could be vital in such a person making contact with a medical practitioner or relative in the event of urgent need? In the light of the obvious humanitarian considerations, will the Government request Telecom to consider extending telephone installation cost concessions to pensioners who also would be entitled to reduced telephone rental charges? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Has the Minister noted reports of the continuing exploration success of the Western Mining Corporation Ltd at Roxby Downs in South Australia demonstrating the extensive potential value of the copper and uranium deposits located there? Is the Minister discussing the possible development of this project with the South Australian Government? Has the South Australian Government indicated its attitude to mining such deposits even though the South Australian Premier has publicly stated his attitude to be against uranium mining? If not, will the Minister use his good offices to determine whether the Premier would be prepared to encourage the development of this promising and sorely needed employment generating project in the interests of the people of South Australia? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and concerns Federal-State financial relations. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the Leader of the Opposition, when speaking at the annual conference of the New South Wales Local Government Association recently, said that the Commonwealth is reducing State financial allocations, thereby forcing the State Premiers to cut essential programs or to increase taxes? Was  Mr Hayden  reported to have claimed also that the Whitlam Government made a mistake in allocating finance to local government on a needs basis because a number of councils received no grants under this arrangement? Will the Minister explain again for the benefit of  Mr Hayden  and members of the Opposition, particularly those in this place, the advantages of the Fraser Government's new federalism policy, in particular its advantages for local government? 
-I present the following petition from 1 78 citizens of" Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that Adelaide's River Torrens was entered on the interim register of the 
Australian Heritage Commission about 15 months ago? Has the Heritage Commission now settled its final register of items to be preserved? If so, does this list include the River Torrens? If not, is this due to representations made by the South Australian Government to exclude it so that the Torrens Valley might be used as a route for the controversial and unpopular tramway called NEAPTR which is to be built from the north eastern suburbs to the city of Adelaide? Would the inclusion of this river on the final register preclude the provision of Federal Government public transport development funds in respect of the tramway? Has the South Australian Government provided the Commission with an environmental impact study covering this development? If so, will the Commission release this document for public inspection? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On a recent visit to Darwin I observed railway track being loaded onto rail trucks for shipment to Indonesia. Is it a fact, as rumoured in some quarters, that such railway track is being removed from the North Australia Railway system, which is now closed? Can the Minister assure the Senate that this action would not seriously affect the re-opening of the North Australia Railway in the event of future changed circumstances? 
My question is addressed to  Senator Durack  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of the imminent failure of petrol supplies from the Fort Stanvac refinery to South Australian consumers as a result of the Seamen's Union ban on the use of tugs for tankers carrying crude which are presently lying off-shore? Has the Minister any information for the people of South Australia regarding this matter as in the next few days they face severe disruptions to the supply of petrol as a result of a run-down in stocks which is partly contributed to by other apparently co-ordinated industrial action in New South Wales and Victoria? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In the light of the rapid advancement of new technology, it is becoming increasingly obvious that new mechanisms are needed to facilitate the transition from education to work. Does the Minister agree that children very rarely have first-hand experience of adult work? Is it a fact that in the United States of America some companies have developed arrangements with secondary schools to afford youngsters the opportunity to learn about the real world of work before they make their own career decisions? Would the Minister consider initiating such an arrangement in Australia and possibly expanding it so that every business could adopt a nearby school so that children could regularly visit the business for the purpose of inspecting and learning production processes, as well as adult endeavours, through in-plant and in-office involvement? 
Tonight I want to address my remarks on the Appropriation Bills to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which was reviewed by Estimates Committee B, of which I was a member, under the able chairmanship of  Senator Peter  Rae. In particular I want to draw the Senate's attention to the worthwhile contribution made by the Department, which was revealed to the Committee during its hearings, in its submission to the study group on structural adjustment in industry currently being undertaken and which is commonly known as the Crawford Committee. I found the report which came into our hands of very great significance and interest in outlining the difficulties which the Australian economy faces and which it will face for years to come. I believe that it puts into proper context the directional changes that have occurred in the economy in the longer term. 
Perhaps it would pay us firstly to look at some of the reasons why' the labour force in Australia has developed in the way it has over the last 30 years. I extend our thinking back to the commencement of the application of the Government's White Paper on manufacturing industry which applied in 1945 and which has been the basis of industrial policies until recent times. In particular I believe that the report is correct in outlining the three major reasons why the work force has developed to the extent is has. The three areas that are covered in the report are: Firstly, immigration, which has occurred very substantially since 1945; secondly, the influx of married women seeking and finding employment within the work force; and thirdly, the fluctuations in the proportion and number of young people who are entering the labour market, accompanied by a trend towards longer average periods of full-time education. Of course, that has occurred through positive government policies at State and Federal Government levels to encourage tertiary education to a degree higher than had previously applied and to provide better opportunities for children at the secondary level. We have seen an extension of the primary school leaving age. It has risen from 1 4 years to 1 5 years over the last 10 years or so. 
I will examine each of these three points and consider, firstly, immigration as a factor in the growth in the labour force over the period I have mentioned. In fact, the proportion of the civilian labour force born overseas represented only 12 per cent of the total Australian civilian labour force in 1947. It rose to 18.9 per cent in 1954, to 23.3 per cent in 1961 and to 26.9 per cent in 1971. The sources of that work force varied greatly. The increase in the work force averaged out at about 40,000 per annum during the 1 950s and 1960s and peaked at an average annual growth rate of 49,000 in the years from 1 96 1 to 1966. The direct effect of immigration for those 20 years was a contribution of at least 40 per cent to the annual increase in the Australian labour force. Indeed, in the 1950s the contribution would have been as high as 50 per cent. 
The next point is female participation in the work force. This has been a major factor in the development of the labour force over the period that I am considering. The female component of the labour force rose from 22.8 per cent in 1954 to 25.1 per cent in 1961. In 1966 it reached 29.5 per cent and by 1971 it was 31.7 per cent. Over the same period, the married female component of the female component of the work force rose from 6.9 per cent to 9.6 per cent, and then to 1 4. 1 per cent. In 1971, it represented 18 per cent of the total female component. So the contribution to the labour force arising from the participation of married females really was dramatic insofar as there were increases of up to 300 per cent in roughly 30 years. 
The labour force growth was caused by this greater participation of females. The growth rate rose frome an average yearly increase of 3 1 ,000 between 1954 and 1961 to 51,000 between 1966 and 1971. While females accounted for 40 per cent of the labour force growth from 1954 to 1 96 1 , the proportion of females in the work force rose dramatically to 60 per cent between 1961 and 1966 and was 54 percent between 1966 and 1971. Therefore, married women accounted for over 80 per cent of the escalation in the labour force growth rate due to the addition of females. That is a very significant factor which has great social implications, apart from economic implications. When we look at the percentages of changes in relation to the total number of persons in the labour force, including both males and females, we find that over this period the percentage rose from 1.9 per cent to 2.8 per cent and then settled back to 1.9 per cent by 1971. The position in regard to married women in the work force had changed. The number of married women in the work force had increased from 6.7 per cent to 11.1 per cent, and in 1971 it was 6.9 per cent. Again, this demonstrates the very significant contribution that married women made to the work force during that period from the early 1 950s to the present day. 
The third area I wish to refer to is that of the teenage labour force. We know that this has been affected by many factors. The increase in the numbers of teenagers entering the labour force between 1954 and 1971 is as follows: Between 1961 and 1966, persons in the 15 to 24 age group accounted for approximately 43 per cent of the labour force growth. This increase was absolutely astronomical. That 43 per cent growth rate should be compared with the earlier growth rate of 34 per cent. From 1966 onward education started to have longer-term significance. The trend was for young people to stay at school longer and to take on full-time education in the new colleges of advanced education. Of course, there was a considerable easing in the position of students who wished to enter universities at that time. The number of teenagers continuing their education grew considerably. Between 1966 and 1971 the number of teenagers entering the work force had dropped to 18 per cent of the labour force growth. It was down from 34 per cent in the 1954 to 1961 period. Very largely, that significant characteristic of the labour force over the last 20 years has had a considerable influence on the changes in the needs of the labour market insofar as married women have found jobs in areas which had not previously been available to them. Because of changes in the education system, teenage labour did not find opportunities to obtain jobs in industry. One can easily see by making a rough comparison that the teenage labour force was not growing at the same rate as it had previously and that the jobs available were being absorbed by the female labour force. I believe that that at present is still a very significant factor within the labour market. 
Factors influencing the growth in Australia of the teenage labour force are of more than just casual interest when Australia's experience of employment and unemployment in the 1960s is compared with the experience in North America. For instance, the United States of America has an average annual growth in its labour force of about 2 per cent. Canada has an average annual growth rate of 3 per cent and Australia has a growth rate of  Vh  per cent. All three countries experienced a very big rise in their labour forces in the 1 960s. However, of those three countries, only Australia managed to maintain very low unemployment rates. One of the pressures during that period in the United States of America and Canada, unlike Australia perhaps, came from that fast growing teenage labour force which within Australia was being absorbed very largely into the education system. The teenage labour force of both the United States and Canada grew at an average rate of 4.3 per cent during that period whereas Australia's teenage labour force grew at an average rate of only 0.4 per cent. If that factor was important to the different unemployment experiences of the three countries, it is impossible to isolate its influence from so many other factors. 
It is interesting to note that the projected teenage labour force growth of the three countries to 1985 shows a total reversal of that pattern. In Australia there is likely to be a very significant growth in the number of teenagers coming into the labour market whereas in the United States and Canada the reverse will be true. Consequently a very significant problem will arise in the future in that area in Australia. Perhaps it might seem absolutely pointless to remark upon it here because clearly the teenage labour force problem is very well known to members of the Senate and indeed the Government. 
I will just give a few more statistics to demonstrate the effects on the various sections of the labour force and the economy insofar as they have been affected by changes within the various sectors. If we compare the percentages of the work force which have been involved in the various sectors, we find that in 1 950-5 1 rural industry accounted for 14 per cent of the work force whereas in 1977 the percentage had dropped to 6.4 per cent; the mining industry accounted for 2 per cent of the work force in 1950-5 1 but the percentage had dropped to 1.3 per cent in 1977; manufacturing industry accounted for 29 per cent of the work force in 1 950-5 1 but in 1 977 the percentage had dropped to 21.6 per cent, a drop of about one-quarter on the 1950 figure which is a very significant change in the light of the very great growth that has occurred in the economy and the manufacturing sector since the end of World War II. 
Of course the very significant area of growth in the labour force has been in the services sector. Whereas in 1950-5 1 that sector accounted for 55 per cent of the work force, in 1977- the latest available statistics- it accounted for 70.7 per cent, a growth of about 30 per cent. I must mention of course that services includes that sector covering the Government's employment and consequently probably demonstrates a very significant growth over those 25 years of employment in that area, quite apart from the normal contribution of growth in services, such as those available through financial institutions, areas of entertainment and activities of that sort. To demonstrate also the similar pattern that has occurred in that sector, I would like to point out that in that period the services sector increased from 49.9 per cent of the total gross domestic product to 66.9 per cent in 1974-75. Clearly that area has been the most significant area of growth in the economy over those 25 years. 
When we consider the forces that are working to move jobs from one sector to another, it is quite clear that while there has been a very significant period of boom in those 25 years when viewed in the longer term, there have been very great changes with people moving from one sector to another upon incentives that have occurred more or less naturally in the economy as a result of increasing profits in one sector as against another and increasing developments brought about by definite government policy; for instance, the encouragement of development in regional areas, in sections of States and indeed in some States as against others. In that context I mention the development of manufacturing industry in a regional area such as South Australia. Although it is a State with a small population, it has indeed attracted significant manufacturing industry over the last 30 years which of course has led to a dramatic change and increase in the level of population in the State. Those changes have resulted from deliberate policies of protection and specific incentives being offered by State governments and of course in some instances local governments to encourage development. It is pretty clear that had some of those industries been exposed to the fullest impact of imported goods they would not have survived. But, through conscious government policy, those changes have occurred. 
As we consider the impact of and the reasons for change in those areas, it becomes pretty clear that, because of the development of certain industries which have been based on noneconomic factors- that is, they have developed under the protection of government tariff policies and through other more or less artificial devices- there is a continuing pressure from imported goods on those particular industries. In fact, this effect has been heightened in recent times by the process caused by economic recession. It is pretty fair to say that had the recession not occurred and had the Australian economy remained as buoyant as it was in the 1960s and early 1970s very little would have been heard of the problem of structural change. In fact the problem has become clearer insofar as there are now very real needs to transfer people more rapidly from the unemployed sector- the sector which is likely to be most exposed to rapid change caused by economic difficulties- to other industries that are of greater potential. Those are the factors to which the Government is addressing its mind. The paper which has been put forward by the Department to the Crawford committee suggesting ways in which this might occur is of very great interest. 
I for one strongly support policies which are aimed at gradual change through tariff reform and, allied to that, adjustments through the taxation system. I refer to action on the part of the Government to seek change in industry and to develop industries in more profitable areas and areas of greater potential in order to ensure that such changes are made smoothly and without the enormously disruptive effects that could occur through straight out structural change resulting from actions of government aimed at reducing the protection through tariff and other measures that are presently available to various sectors of industry. This sort of approach, I think, is vital to the future development of Australian industry. Quite clearly, Australia's economic potential lies in developing industries which have a real future in the development of goods and services that can be sold on the world markets but which in fact are developed better in Australia than anywhere else. That, of course, is basic economics. We face the difficulties of regional development and development within various States. The sudden removal of protection in those areas would result in massive unemployment and dislocation of social and economic services. We would be faced with a very real community problem that could not be matched by sufficient performance on the part of the Australian Government. It seems to me that we have very clearly a challenge in this regard. For example, I refer to South Australia. There is a need to effect structural change in industry in various part of South Australia. It is clear that the Government will need to consider the process of change in such States as South Australia which are affected by economic pressures from overseas to the point that they can in fact move into areas of more economic potential for the future. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the total amount, expressed in Australian dollars, of loans raised overseas in the year 1 977-78. 
How much was borrowed in each transaction, through which bank was each loan negotiated, and what were the terms and interest rates applicable to each loan. 
Were all such loans lodged outside Australia; if not, what proportion was lodged within Australia. 
I have been involved in two sweeps this week. In the first of those which was conducted on Tuesday I did not do too well, and in today's sweep I am again almost at the bottom of the list. However, 1 intend to be very brief in my remarks. In this long debate two features stand out very clearly to me. The first is the legal position as stated by  Senator Tate  as a legal man. I believe he has a very clear comprehension of the position in the Australian Capital Territory. The second feature was  Senator Chaney  's speech. He spelt out the position with abortions and the moral dilemmas that face people who consider both sides of the argument.  Senator Chaney  made clear to me the issues involved. Indeed, I believe he made them clear to the whole of the Senate. He spelt out the point that life begins at conception. If one accepts that proposition, then the Opposition's argument regarding the rights of the living cannot be reconciled. That is a fundamental issue which I have to face and which I have faced. I accept the point that life begins at conception. Therefore I am opposed to abortion. I state that as a personal view only. 
I wish to discuss the rights of the people in the Australian Capital Territory. I believe that is the key to our problem today. The fact is that the way the Capital Territory Health Commission in its operation of the public hospital system carries out abortions in accordance with the law and the Menhennitt ruling quite clearly is accepted by the bulk of the population of the Australian Capital Territory and is accepted by honourable senators in this chamber. I believe that most honourable senators understand and comprehend quite clearly the law which applies in the Australian Capital Territory and agree with it. I believe that the law is being applied properly and the Commission is operating within its boundaries.  Mr Hunt's  responsibility as Minister for Health is quite clear; he has responsibility for the administration of health and abortion law in the Australian Capital Territory. That is clearly spelt out in the letter dated 16 March 1 977 which was written by  Mr Staley,  the Minister for the Capital Territory at the time. In referring to the Legislative Assembly's report, the third paragraph said: 
This appears to the Minister for Health to be a matter of great community interest and one in which he would expect to have the views of the Assembly before he institutes positive action, of any kind. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators particularly to the words 'the views of the Assembly'. Clearly the object of the Government in contacting the Legislative Assembly was to ensure that its views were made known in the Australian Capital Territory, and conveyed to the Government so that it could form its own view. Many references have been made tonight to  Mr Hunt's  so-called abrogation of duty. Attention has been drawn to certain statements that he made in the Parliament on 10 March 1977, 17 March 1977 and 24 March 1977. None of those statements as I read them- they do mention the. key word 'decisions' with regard to the Legislative Assembly- in any way refers to the binding effect that those decisions might have on the decision of the Government. Rather, the context of those remarks clearly points out that the decision was to be taken by the Legislative Assembly after forming its own view. 
The decision was to be made by the members of the Legislative Assembly after drawing together the views of the ACT community. The Assembly was to form its own judgment and having decided upon a view was to send that view to the Minister. To make the point that that decision is binding on the Government is, to my mind, misrepresenting the case. I hope that  Senator O  'Byrne is listening. He was making the point that the Minister was somehow hoodwinking the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the members of this Parliament. I believe that the words are quite clear. Attempts by honourable senators to represent the case otherwise are designed to skip around the major point to which I now return. The official statement sent to the Legislative Assembly on 16 March 1977 by the then Minister for the Capital Territory, the  Hon.  A. A. Staley, quite clearly asked for the views of the Legislative Assembly. That, to my mind, clears up that matter without any doubt whatsoever. 
I turn now to a matter which  Senator Puplick  mentioned during his speech. He referred to the question of abortion being a morality issue. It is, but it is not within the context of the authority and the responsibilities and duties of the Minister for Health. This aspect is referred to quite clearly in an answer the Minister gave to  Mr Stewart,  the honourable member for Lang, on 17 March 1977 in the House of Representatives. In response to  Mr Stewart's  question, which I will not read as it has been quoted before tonight, the Minister said: 
I thank the honourable member for Lang for the question. The only point that I wish to make in addition to those that I made in the House a few days ago is that the Capital Territory Health Commission considered the safety and medical aspects of the operation of free standing abortion clinics at its meeting yesterday. I am awaiting a formal report from the Commission. However, I have been informed that the Capital Territory Health Commission gave consideration to a report from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists on the health aspects of free standing abortion clinics. It is my understanding that the Commission is concerned that proper health safeguards should be imposed to ensure the safety of patients receiving any clinical service. It is recommended that properly qualified staff should undertake such operations in clinics within hospitals conducted by public authorities. The Capital Territory Health Commission will be formally reporting this recommendation to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. 
That answer makes it quite clear when considering the questions to which we have addressed ourselves in this debate that this is a health question and not a moral one. On those grounds the Government obviously came to the conclusion to draft the ordinance in the form that it has in order to protect the health of those who within the law are seeking abortions within  Mr Justice  Menhennitt 's ruling. 
That question seems to be quite clear. Within the legal terms drawn earlier tonight by  Senator Tate,  it seems to me that the proposition the Government has put forward, which I strongly support, that abortions within the law be carried out in a public hospital in the form that has been outlined is the correct way to handle this matter. Within the terms of the statements made earlier tonight by  Senator Baume,  it is clear that the report of the Legislative Assembly which was brought down in the course of its deliberations on this matter makes the point that abortions within the law are to be carried out within the grounds of a public hospital. In fact, the emphasis is on abortions, admittedly after 12 weeks, being carried out within a public hospital. To my mind, that clears the basic issues in this matter. 
We are addressing ourselves to the question of the Government's administration of the health facilities in the Australian Capital Territory. The Government has not only a right but also a duty and a responsibility properly to carry out its health activities, especially within the boundaries and parameters of the decisions that relate to the law, and I mention particularly the Menhennitt clauses. Consequently, the Government is acting properly in ensuring that this ordinance is put into effect. I therefore reject the motion that is before the Senate tonight. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland) &lt; 1 1 .7) - I have been given the right to vote on conscience, a right which I did not desire. If it is a matter of conscience for members of this place to vote upon such an issue, which clearly is a moral issue in spite of the fact that it commenced as a debate on technicalities, then surely it is a conscience vote for the whole of the community. If it is a conscience vote for the whole of the community, surely we can take it further and say that it is a conscience vote of the person most concerned, the individual woman, and that is where it rests. For that reason I want to put my position clearly on the record so that everyone should know it, if they do not already know. Perhaps they do know my position because I was not flooded with the same number of letters as others have received, although I did receive some telephone calls to which I responded. 
My position is clearly this: I will oppose any law or ordinance that comes into this place which limits a woman's right to exercise her conscience in this very important matter. Further, I support the proposition that any laws which limit that right should be taken off the statute book, except those laws which concern health procedures and govern the various health institutions. Let me make it clear that I believe this is a matter of conscience for the individual most concerned. That individual if she desires to consult with her spouse or her spiritual adviser or her medical practitioner is free to exercise that right, but the decision remains hers and hers alone. I find it distasteful that in this place we should be debating the matter in the manner that we have. I believe it to be a grave invasion of privacy, and I think that that is how it ought to be considered from now on. I listened to those people who rang me in order to impress me with their views, but what did impress me was that they had little faith in their own faith and endeavoured to support that with a secular law. To my mind that shows a weakness in their position and in their ability to establish in themselves, in the community in which they live and within their family the standards which they spiritually support. I would not thrust my views on another and I would hesitate to advise that others should do the same to me. This I clearly state. I say again that no matter what regulations or ordinances of that nature come before this place, I will resist them. I will seek the repeal of all such laws on the statute book. This matter came before this place in such a way that if it had been properly considered in the first place the decision which may be reached tonight could have been different. It astonishes me- I must confess that I am also guilty in this respect- that four members of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which had the responsibility to scrutinise this Ordinance, are now opposed to the Ordinance. 

 Senator McAuliffe  Who are the members of the Committee? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that Adelaide is the only mainland State capital without an international airport? Does this result in South Australians travelling overseas paying as much as 19 per cent more than other Australians pay for overseas air fares? If so, is this an unfair discriminatory impost on South Australians, quite contrary to the spirit of federalism? Will the Minister take up this matter with his colleague with a view to redressing the situation by establishing a fare structure which allows a greater degree of equity amongst all States? 
When I spoke on the Appropriation Bill (No. I) 1978-79 last Wednesday, 8 November, I discussed the report of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to the Crawford Committee on structural adjustment which was presented to Estimates Committee B of which I was a member. I outlined the important statistics which that paper revealed with regard to the very significant movements in the labour force within Australia over the last 30 years. The attendant changes in industrial structure have caused significant differences in our view as to the way industry ought to develop for the future compared to the view held 30 years ago. I referred, in particular, to the situation in various regions of the States and the Commonwealth. From the Commonwealth Government's point of view, I tried to outline some of the problems which the Government is now facing with regard to the serious changes which have occurred in industry over the last few years. These are mainly due to the economic recession. One also has to bear in mind some of the longer term problems that industry is faced with. 
Positive decisions are made by governments in seeking to encourage industrial development within States and in one State as against another. Of course, that may involve the offer of incentives by various State governments in their respective spheres and also by local government bodies. It is most important to recognise the very significant effect that the Federal Government has had in devising protectionist policies since the implementation of the White Paper on manufacturing which was first brought down, I believe, by the Curtin Government in 1945. That paper outlined, for the benefit of businessmen and industrialists in Australia, the outlook at that time. This was based on wartime experience with the near Japanese invasion of Australia and the length of time it took to deliver goods from the great manufacturing centres of Europe, in particular Britain, to Australian shores. Bearing that in mind, I suppose it was natural that those in power at the time developed manufacturing policies designed to substitute Australian made goods for imported goods. The objective was clearly to obtain self-sufficiency to an extent where our defence needs were looked after and to ensure the future employment of Australians. The labour force was built up as a result of substantial immigration at that time. 
That policy has been followed substantially by all governments since then. Faith in Australia's industrial future was not challenged until about 1976 when the Government brought down a further White Paper on manufacturing industry. That has been the subject of much discussion in the Senate on previous occasions. Suffice it to say that, during that discussion, the point was made that change in manufacturing industry in Australia was necessary, albeit on a gradual basis and after having established a firm foundation for the economy so that significant changes can occur with the least possible social and economic disruption. It seems clear to me that the Government's action in appointing the Crawford Committee has been good. Even though we recognise that changes in industrial development will be gradual, we need to consider their very important socio-economic effects throughout Australia. 
I suppose it was inevitable that since Federation, because of the nature of the compact and the outlook at the time, each State would develop its own industry base in accordance with its own facilities. Of course, that has happened to the point of disregarding many economic realities. Very little regard has been paid to the fact that some industries would have been better located in different States. They have grown unnaturally in one State or in a region of that State. We have to face the possibility that some industries may move because of natural pressures in the economy from imported goods and cheaper labour available outside Australia. Some multinational firms operate not only in this country but also overseas. They find it better and cheaper to operate factories in offshore countries rather than in Australia. As a result, significant problems are developing. This is true not only of Australia, but also Europe. For example in the Saarland in Germany, severe social dislocation is occurring because of the uneconomic nature of the German steel industry as compared with competitors in the developing nations. It is even becoming clear in the South East Asian region that nations such as Korea have a better cost structure and are more competitive. They are pushing the Japanese themselves out of the markets of the world. Australia must take note of such problems. There is no point in remaining protected behind high tariff walls without paying regard to the serious pressures which the Australian economy is under and which will continue until the 1980s. That is not to sound pessimistic. I believe that Australia is better placed than most. 
-That is correct. It is being realistic. We are facing up to the real need to alter the direction of Australia's policies in accordance with the White Paper brought down in 1976. I refer to some of the present problem areas. It is pretty clear that Australia needs to develop more technologically efficient industries. We have spent billions of dollars on education in recent years. Australia needs to capitalise on that education expenditure. The education of the work force in Australia is far superior than is the education of the work force of any other nation in this part of the world. Obviously, the challenge is for us to make sure that we can utilise those higher skills in such a way as to develop newer industries which are far and away ahead of those of our competitors. We are thinking of the developing nations of Korea and Brazil and others with what might be called vast economic opportunities before them. 
It seems to me that that must be where we start in defining our education and training directions so that we can match properly our skills with the future work force that we will need. So it becomes important for us to realise that, small individually though they might be at the start, projects such as InterScan and now Sirothem and the continuing development of organisations such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation are of the greatest future importance to Australians insofar as we can find through them new ways, new methods, new projects and new skills for the Australian work force. Certainly I believe that Australians will rise to the challenge. Indeed, we have the background required to achieve those things. Actually, I believe that that is what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was talking about in his statement last Sunday when he spoke of looking forward with optimism to the 1980s. Clearly, in some areas it is not going to be easy to face up to those challenges, but unless we do the alternative is not very nice to contemplate. 
I refer now to the regional problems that we have in Australia. I mention my State of South Australia in that context because, as honourable senators would know, South Australia's work force relies very heavily- to some extent more heavily than other States- on manufacturing as the core of its work force. We have seen that manufacturing industry develop through the positive policies of both State and Federal governments. Clearly, if there are to be changes in government policies there is a need to think through the effects of those changes and to design government policies, at both State and Federal levels, to take account of the human, social and economic problems associated with the dislocation that will occur as a result. 
It is not a very nice prospect that manufacturing industry will move substantially out of South Australia, as some people have predicted, and that consequently the Federal Government will be in a position of having to take action to fund new developments or, indeed, to make very substantial contributions towards the cost of relocating people in other parts of Australia. Therefore, our policies of protection ought to be designed so that we can phase ourselves into new industries and out of others. This is happening. Indeed, in South Australia, which as honourable senators would know is very heavily involved in the white goods industry, we find that the Electrical Manufacturers Industry Advisory Council has prepared a report discussing the introduction of phased reductions in the rate of tariff applicable to white goods to make way for change. The recommendations of that body have been conveyed to the Government and incorporated in the decisions made recently in accordance with the industries Assistance Commission report. They provide for phased reductions in tariffs over the next five or 10 years to ensure that the white goods industry does change, that it does not become inefficient and, consequently, that it will meet the demands of the future. 
I made an error in mentioning the word Manufacturers' in the title of the Advisory Council to which I referred. In fact, it is not an advisory council of manufacturers at all; it is a body made up of members of the trade union movement, manufacturers, representatives of political bodies and government. The decision of that Advisory Council was taken with the consent and on the advice of all of those people sitting on the Council. It seems to me that that sort of activity indicates the direction which the Federal Government ought to take in ensuring that government policies in respect of protection- in respect of support for private enterprise throughout Australia- are aimed clearly towards developing more economic structures in our industry, towards better training of people who need to seek more skills or better skills, and to capitalise on the huge investment in education which has been made over the past 10 or 20 years in this country. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the concern in the Riverland area of South Australia with regard to the two present Industries Assistance Commission inquiries on potable spirits and grape growing. Can the Minister say when these respective reports will be received and when the Government will be in a position to announce its decisions on these matters which are of vital importance to the brandy industry in South Australia? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen reports attributed to Australian Labor Party economics spokesmen, and particularly to the South Australian Attorney-General,  Mr Peter  Duncan, that in government the Australian Labor Party would introduce a wealth tax? Are such taxes which require annual valuations of property already in existence overseas and known to be disproportionately costly to collect? Does this mean that such a tax would be inequitable since it would impose a heavier cost burden on taxpayers than other more efficient taxes? In view of this would the ALP's wealth tax be not only inequitable and inefficient but also confiscatory? 
Does such a tax appear to have been dreamt up by the ALP idealogues purely to satisfy left wing pressures to continue the implementation of its platform objective of socialisation which was restored to respectability in Victoria last weekend? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware of the present requirement of the Australian Passport Office that married women, when applying for a passport, provide evidence of change of name, usually in the form of a marriage certificate? Does the Minister agree that this procedure may be unduly onerous, if not discriminatory, particularly in cases where previous marriages have occurred? Would the Minister consider the possibility of amending the regulations to allow the option of issuing passports in the maiden name of the female applicant? 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he has noted the concern expressed by South Australian teachers that there is a considerable surplus of equipment- teaching aids and the like- in South Australian schools which is largely unused from one end of the year to the next because the South Australian Government chooses to order the priorities of its expenditure in favour of departments other than its Education Department, thereby depriving of funds the training of teachers in the utilisation of this material. 
I wish to speak briefly to the amendment moved by  Senator McLaren  and to make one or two observations concerning the grape growing industry in South Australia. I pay tribute to the comments of  Senator Teague  in relation to the industry and in particular his own degree of involvement in the discussions that have taken place with the industry, the State Government and other bodies since this matter first became a subject for public discussion following presentation of the 1978 Budget. During the debate which immediately followed the Budget brought down on 15 August I made my position quite clear. I indicated that I supported the Budget in total. I do not demur in anyway on that issue and thoroughly support the Government and its objective to bring down inflation and restore the economy. I believe that the Budget/in its entirety is central to that aim. The objective which  Senator McLaren  has in mind in moving these amendments tonight is merely to embarrass the Government supporters who have represented, as have members of the Australian Labor Party, the interests of the South Australian people by taking these matters forward to the Federal Government and ensuring that the Government fully recognises the problems in certain parts of South Australia. I find nothing inconsistent in that matter, except as to policy. 

 Senator Elstob mentioned during his discussion on the second reading speech of the Bill that he felt that action had to be taken immediately in order to save jobs in this area. Action was taken immediately by this Government in respect to the grape growing industries of South Australia. We know that the Government consciously avoided the imposition of taxes on wine in the Budget. In fact, wine was the only alcholic beverage saved from the impact of taxes. Consequently, the Federal Government is concerned now to ensure that the wine industry finds its own way out of its problems in South Australia. Brandy manufacture is not the solution to the problem of absorbing the huge surplus of grapes that we have had in recent years, and in particular last year. That has been demonstrated clearly in studies made by the Government and other persons. It is well recognised in the industry that the one way to absorb the surplus of grapes is to ensure that the wine industry becomes more profitable and takes in more grapes in 1979 than it did last year. 
-Senator Elstob has had his go. The honourable senator mentioned in particular the doradillo types of grape which are limited largely to a very narrow area of brandy production. I can not identify one grape grower in the Riverland who relies wholly on doradillo grapes for his income. All grape growers have a mix of grapes on their blocks and consequently will feel the tremendous benefit of the upsurge in sales which has come about since the Budget by virtue of the Government's conscious determination not to impose a wine tax and to face up to the real problems of the Riverland in ensuring that grapes are absorbed into the market. That is an essential and fundamental element but apparently is totally unrecognised as such by the Opposition. If we turn the argument around and ask the Opposition senators how they would feel about the imposition of a tax on the wine industry, which is the corollary of what they are proposing- 
I do not have to answer that sort of nonsense. The fact is that they reduced the wine tax with one hand and took that benefit away with the other in the imposition of a further tax by reducing the effect of section 3 1 A of the Income Tax Assessment Act. They know that. They imposed a huge excise on brandy in 1973. 
Let us not be diverted from the real issue. The real issue is how to get the grape growing industry going, as a preliminary act to the discussions that the Government will undertake in the full public eye, as any government should. I believe that what the Whitlam Government or any other form of Labor government would have wanted to do was to discuss the whole question of the industry under the eye of the Industries Assistance Commission. As we know, there are presently two inquiries going forward. One on grape growing and the other on the potable spirits industry. The essential element of this Government's policy, having consciously not imposed a wine tax to assist the industry in this difficult vintage of 1 979, will be to ensure that there is a thorough consideration of the long term problems of the industry when those IAC reports come down. Consequently we, as representatives of the South Australian electorate, will be making sure that the Government sees the problems of the Riverland in their proper context. I support what the Government has done to ensure that the Riverland is looked after in respect of the wine industry as a whole. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask the Minister Has he noted recent economic indicators which show continuing improving trends in housing, capital expenditure, interest rates, industrial production and even the enigmatic consumer confidence index compiled by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research? Can the Minister explain why the Australian Labor Party Opposition- particularly its leader- continues to spread doom and gloom and is becoming increasingly isolated as the only group which refuses to acknowledge the success of the Government's policies? 
The Senate is discussing two amending Bills to the Trade Practices Act but I would like to address my remarks to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) which is concerned chiefly with amending section 45D of the Trade Practices Act. The issues concerning section 45d of the Act have been canvassed very deeply over a period of months in the Senate as they were in the debate when the original amendment was brought forward. Therefore, I do not intend to go into that area at this stage other than to acknowledge that the amendment which was made to the Act in June of last year was a very proper one. In fact, the institution in the Trade Practices Act of an even-handed approach to the question of businessmen as well as unionists who both have equal opportunities to boycott the businesses of other businessmen seems to me to be an entirely proper approach. In fact, at the time I commended the Government for taking the step that it did. 
The weaknesses that have revealed themselves in the implementation of the, law have been referred to by  Senator Elstob.  I believe that this amending legislation, which covers the export of goods and goods being traded between the States and territories, is a further extension of the principle of ensuring that there is absolute clarity in the implementation of the law. Hopefully it will circumvent the sorts of problems that  Senator Elstob  experienced in South Australia because of the legal vacuum that existed in the dispute over the export of live sheep to which he referred. 
The questions raised in this debate by  Senator Elstob  referred to the success of discussions between unionists and employers. I believe that to be a proper development. I believe that all disputes can be properly settled by an acrossthetable approach. No ohe believes that the passing of a law such as this or its implementation will solve all the problems of a particular industry. We should look upon this legislation as establishing a framework of rules within which people should work. If it is even-handed in its approach then I believe that this is an entirely proper way of going about business. Without legislation such as this we would have one section of the community treated under the law differently from other sections. I believe that this legislation will ensure equity and justice for all. 
I notice in the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission that there has been a great degree of success. Paragraph 3.33 of the report reads'. 
The Commission has not so far instituted any court proceedings under section 4SD. There has, however, been a degree of success from the arrangements made with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Industrial Council that will consider whether they can secure the lifting of a boycott or threatened- boycott before the Commission considers court proceedings. 
Clearly that indicates that the Commission is interested in going through normal procedures of discussion in trying to find solutions to the problems of industry and solutions to disputes before taking any action. In fact, the annual report of the Commission goes further to point out that no proceedings have been entered into at all by the Commission in its short life. 
-Yes. As  Senator Harradine  points out- I was just going to mention this- there is provision for others such as businessmen, or the Government if the national interest is involved to take part in actions against the unions under this legislation. Indeed, the Trade Practices Commission has been very careful to ensure that it did not become looked upon as some sort of heavy in trying to force issues on trade unions, and I commend that approach. The sorts of fears that were running around last year that the legislation could have been of an oppressive nature and result in the Commission becoming such a body, have not eventuated. I agree entirely with the approach that the Commission is adopting. As I said, the legal framework is there for. people who feel that their rights are being affected by the activities of others in secondary boycott situations. This is provided for under this legislation. I support the amending legislation which extends the provisions to cover trade in other areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Has the Minister's department recently conducted a survey to establish the latest actual level of optimum capacity in manufacturing activity. If so, has the graph on the last page of the September issue of Quarterly Survey of Manufacturing Activity of the Department of Industry and Commerce been adjusted to that new base. If not, and in the light of recent comments by the Reserve Bank and others, will the Department undertake such a survey to ensure that the base then applicable is still relevant to today's situation in the industrial world. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. In the light of the continuing economic recovery and the already evident long term shortages in the supply of skilled labour in Australia, has the Government noted a recent statement by a prominent member of the National Training Council that firms taking on apprentices should receive preferential treatment in the awarding of government contracts. Will the Government consider the merits of such a scheme with a view to providing a report to Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education: In 1977 the Government introduced a new program aimed at extending education services available to children living in country areas. I ask the Minister: What is the current position in regard to funding of the program? How is it administered? How many schools are benefiting from it at the present time? 
-The past few minutes in the Senate tonight have certainly been very revealing. At last we have found out exactly what the Australian Labor Party was on about in raising this matter of public importance. It did not move the motion before us out of concern for the pensioners in Australia; rather, it moved the motion to raise the question of the honourable member for Franklin,  Mr Goodluck,  and the motion that for some time he has been talking about moving. In particular, this has been done to embarrass  Mr Goodluck  politically in Tasmania. It is as simple as that. It was a very simple political exercise and had nothing at all to do with the welfare of Australians, least of all the welfare of Australian pensioners. Having said that, I turn to the major concern which we on this side of the House have for the old age pensioners, the underprivileged people of Australia. Since coming to office in 1975 the Government has raised substantially the level of benefits paid to pensioners and other welfare recipients. 
Exactly. That is because  Senator Cavanagh  cannot see the truth. For the benefit of the Opposition, I will cite one or two very simple statistics to show the force of my argument. In particular, let us compare the age pension paid in December 1975 with that paid today. In December 1975 the pensioner was receiving $38.75 a week. 
I will come to that in a very brief moment. In December 1 978 the pensioner was receiving $53.20 a week, representing an increase of 37.3 per cent since the Fraser 
Government came to power. The Opposition is talking about average weekly earnings, so let us look at that. In December 1975 average weekly earnings were $167.50.' Today they are $221.10. That represents an increase of only 32 per cent. So the age pensioner has received an increase of 37.3 per cent and average weekly earnings have increased by 32 per cent. But what about the rate of inflation? We will talk about that. As a result of the disastrous policies in the Hayden Budget in the Whitlam years, the consumer price index rose rapidly in 1976. Its rate of escalation slowed down substantially in 1977 and has slowed down to a very low rate this year. Because of those Whitlam policies, the overall rate of inflation since the Whitlam Government was in office has been 34.7 per cent. That means that the age pensioner has received a substantially greater increase in pension than the increase in the inflation rate. He has also done substantially better than the average weekly wage earner. That is a fact of life. The Opposition apparently does not recognise that. 
There seems to be some very great concern about that situation. Let us look at it. For the benefit of  Senator McLaren  let us compare December 1970 with December 1978. We find that the age pension has increased in that period by 243 per cent whereas the average weekly wage earner's income has increased by only 168 per cent. During that time the rate of inflation has increased 126 per cent so that, in effect, the age pensioner has done twice as well when we look at the rate of inflation. That measures the total improvement in the position. Let us follow that up with one or two other small items. 
-Let us have a look at that situation if I can find my notes.  Senator McLaren  asks about the pension rate in 1 973. Is that recent enough for the honourable senator? 
The rate was 2 1 .4 per cent of average weekly earnings at that time. What is it today? 
-In 1975 it was just on 23 per cent. What is it today? Under the Fraser Government it is 24.1 per cent. Let us look at the logic of the Opposition's argument. Opposition members are trying to say that the pensioner has not been given proper consideration in the community because of the so-called negligence of the Fraser Government. But, in fact, there has been a substantial increase in real terms in the percentage of the pension when compared to the average weekly earnings. What is more, there has been a substantial drop in the rate of inflation in the last three years which means that the rate of adjustment is not so necessary. Let us consider the plight of the pensioners during those Whitlam years with inflation at 20 per cent per annum, when we found that, in fact, every time pensioners turned around in the supermarket the prices had gone up again. No wonder the pensioners needed the indexation which was brought in under the Fraser Government in 1976. The need is not there today, with inflation brought under control by this Government. Consequently, we find a very substantial difference by virtue of the superior management of this country under the Fraser Government. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development noted the statement by the Vice-President of Exxon Chemicals of the United States,  Mr Ron  Grandy at a meeting yesterday of the Australian Chemical Industry Council, pointing out that there is a tendency towards increasing international trade in chemicals and that this trend is likely to intensify away from nations in Western Europe, and Japan and the United States? Is the Minister aware that the Dow Chemical Company which is currently examining the feasibility of establishing a petrochemical works at Redcliff in South Australia is primarily interested in the development of substantial exports of its products from such a plant? Does such an objective accord with the Government's vigorous encouragement of exports demonstrated by its launching of a new export drive this week? Would this substantially assist Australia's balance of payments? 
-I rise to support the statement that has been made and to welcome it as a very real contribution to the debate on foreign affairs at this time. Quite clearly, Australia is facing a period of change. The events of the last few months have been rapid, to say the least. As with the rest of the world, we have been caught up in having to make rather rapid assessments of changing events that are occurring almost daily. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  admits that this document is not total in its treatment of all nations and all flash-points or potential flashpoints in the world, but certainly it is a summary in very clear terms of the immediate interests of this nation. 
I should like to join with the other speakers, all of whom have mentioned the word 'miscalculation'. Frankly, that is the very real problem the world faces in the difficulty in Indo-China. We all realise that. The great fear we all have is that one nation or another will make such a mistake as to think it can win a war based on the use of nuclear armaments. However, Australia's application of its principles in the last few weeks has been to make clear in the various councils of the world its position as to the withdrawal of forces in the Indo-China war from Vietnam as well as from Kampuchea. Clearly, an even-handedness emerges from that point of view. However, some Opposition senators take the simplistic view that because there is a capacity for Australia to say that we require peace and stability in South East Asia, and because that view happens to coincide with the views of China but apparently does not coincide with the views of Vietnam, we are somehow showing bias towards China. If our views do correspond, that is coincidental and there is nothing more to be said on that point. Australia remains a critic of aggression, from whatever nation, and consequently has made its position clear in the world 's councils, to the limit of its national capacity and its recognition of its real place in the world, by ensuring that its voice stands for the establishment of peace in South East Asia and not for the continuation of the fighting. 
I do not believe that one can regard oneself as an instant expert on foreign affairs because one has travelled recently to both China and Japan. However, I should like to make some observations on the basis of personal contact and experience within the last month in both those places. Quite clearly, the impression I gained of China's position in the world today was one not only of a fear of Russia but also of the very real concern that its national position is at risk visavis the Russian situation on its immediate northern borders. I heard  Senator Chipp  refer earlier to that as an obsession. However, there are some points to be made in that regard. Quite clearly, China faces very grave difficulties in its industrial area in the immediate north-eastern region north of the Yalu River. A very well-timed and organised force could cut that region off from the rest of China and so make a quite considerable impact on China's capacity to fight a war. That could be attained through a very quick and relatively easy strike, but might of course risk the return of nuclear weapons on the part of China if such an attempt were made. However, the risk is there. In addition, the heartland of China, the rice area, is exposed on the south to Vietnam, which has been making incursions across the Chinese border in recent times. That threat has to be realised. That situation is quite apart from the ring of 44 divisions of Soviet troops all the way round the China border. The threat is not an obsession, it is a very real fear; and it is based on the experience of many years. We have to have regard to that as a major factor in Chinese thinking. 
Australia's position regarding the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics also has to be made clear. This nation stands for the further development of peace in the world and consequently supports the United States and the USSR in seeking to find ways to enter into the second Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty. Clearly, that will have advantages for the world in the future. One should also consider the Iranian problem, which is based very largely on the politics of oil in the world, and the geographical presence of the Soviets in that region. I might say that is was made known to me in Japan that an agreement dating back to 1921 exists between Iran and Soviet Russia and provides for intervention in Iran by the Soviets in the event of any attack. There is some question as to whether that agreement is still in force, but I am led to believe by those who should know that the agreement does exist, and that does lead us into a position of some worry for the immediate area. 
The oil question has very significant possible effects for Australia. We know that a relatively small amount of Iran's oil is used in Australian industry. However, we must have concern for the fact that other nations with which we trade rely very heavily on oil from that source. In Japan, for instance, some 80 or 90 per cent of electrical production is dependent upon the burning of oil. That is in addition to mobile energy, which is a vital part of the Japanese economy. The second area of concern is that not only is Japan facing a major industrial change by automating its factories, it is also facing a revolution on the world's markets because its cost structures have risen significantly above those of countries such as Korea and Taiwan. Consequently, as it automates more to keep its cost levels in line, there will be more dependence on energy, whether of the sort coming from oil, uranium, or other sources, and that will escalate geometrically in the period to come. In the shorter term Japanese industry will become increasingly dependent on Iran's oil. Our trade interests will immediately come into focus when one considers that there is a possibility of a downturn in Japanese trade. I am not suggesting that this may happen, as the Japanese are very well prepared. They are more prepared for an oil shortage than they were in 1973. However, the fact remains that our interests are at stake to a very large degree. 
Turning to the Kampuchean situation there is no doubt in my mind that China's strike in regard to Vietnam stems directly from a challenge to its interests, as it perceives them, by Vietnam's invasion of Cambodia. It is clear to me after talking to Chinese officials in that country, that there is a very real fear that the Vietnamese may not stop at the Thailand border. 
-Not recently. I do not intend to make that an essential point of the analysis, but rather to suggest that the whole area is in some doubt and it is certainly not our perceptions to which I am referring, but to the Chinese perceptions. Consequently there does seem to be some real doubt that Vietnam will stop at that border. In that case it seems reasonable to expect that Chinese pressure on Vietnam is aimed at seeing whether it can get a negotiated settlement in favour of a withdrawal of troops from Kampuchea. I think the question must be asked: If Vietnam- as it is presently occupying Kampuchea and, as it has said, installed a government in Phnom Penh based on the popular feeling of the people of Kampuchea- has, in fact, the general support of those people, then surely the time has come for the withdrawal of Vietnam from Kampuchea. Yet we do not find any answer to that question. In fact, it is obviously a perception of the Chinese that Vietnam will not withdraw unless it is forced to do so by military action conducted on its northern border. As to the continuation of the war, no one knows. 
We turn again to that fundamental question which we all faced earlier, and that is a possible miscalculation in these very complicated series of events interwoven with a whole series of interlocking relationships, alliances, and conflicts of interest. It is hardly for us to talk in terms of principles based on whether this or that regime ought to have control of a particular country. The first point, naturally, is that we do not concern ourselves with the internal affairs of various countries, and the second is that our interests might rely on factors different from those which would come into consideration. I believe that we have to concern ourselves with the immediate facts. The practical situation in Indo-China is a very dangerous one for the world. I find that the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as clearly as possible calls.upon both Vietnam and China in their present conflict to withdraw their forces from the countries which they are presently occupying and to return to the establishment of peace and stability. Our interests rely very heavily on trade, and consequently trade in areas where there is no peace leads to a very difficult situation. Quite apart from that Australia stands for peace in the world and I strongly support the Government's statement made today by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick). 
I address my question to the Minister for Education and refer to the high degree of concern within the community and the Government at the problems of youth training and employment. Is the Department of Education represented on a task force set up to help establish a national voluntary youth community service scheme? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate what recent steps have been taken to establish a viable youth community scheme? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I draw the Minister's attention to the report tabled yesterday of the Public Accounts Committee of the South Australian Parliament, which revealed that massive financial losses were incurred by the South Australian Hospitals Department in the period from 1972-73 to 1977-78. Is the Minister aware that the as yet uncalculated losses, which are likely to run to several million dollars, were incurred largely during and as a result of the period of office of the Whitlam Government when lavish sums of money - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! If the Minister has no relevant information I believe that she will indicate to that effect. 
I was making the point that during that period the Whitlam Government dished out lavish sums of money to the States and that the State Government, without proper planning, indiscriminately spent money on white elephants such as frozen food factories which - 
-That is part of the question. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I am trying to put the question but with all the interruptions it is very difficult to do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I would appreciate it if the honourable senator were to put his question. 
-Does this mean not only that the people of South Australia are suffering these huge losses as a result of the gross mismanagement of the Corcoran Government and previous governments but also that federal taxpayers have been contributing to these losses through the Whitlam Government's unwieldy open-ended hospital funding arrangements - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I would appreciate it if  Senator Messner  completed his preamble and asked his question. 
Finally, will the Minister consider the report with a view to determining whether a need exists for further controls over the health expenditures of State governments? 
I support the Bill and thank the Opposition for its support. Whilst we understand that the basic purpose of the Bill is to ensure that certain anti-trust judgments passed in foreign courts are not recognised and are not enforceable in Australia, we have some difficulty with the general principle that the United States law, as judged by that country in regard to its own sort of national interest, ought to apply in respect of operations of companies whose activities are designed chiefly with the Australian national interest in mind. 
In particular the Bill is designed to counter the activities of the Westinghouse Corporation, which has entered into proceedings relating to arrangements alleged to have been made in 1 972 for the marketing of uranium. The proceedings included a grand jury inquiry in that country and civil proceedings by Westinghouse, in which it claimed $US7 billion from 29 American and foreign uranium producers, including four Australian companies. The grand jury inquiry led to no proceedings being instituted against any Australian company but civil proceedings in which Westinghouse is claiming treble damages are still pending. In the proceedings nine nonAmerican defendants declined to enter appearances. This led to default judgments against them, the amount of which to my knowledge has not yet been announced. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  may have some information for us about that. 
The situation seems to me to be quite clear. I appreciate the points which  Senator Tate  has made on behalf of the Opposition. There are a number of circumstances in which Australia's national interest in respect of the export of minerals and the activities of the various firms which are engaged in exporting certainly needs to be protected against the sort of law that applies in the United States. In fact we have known of the anti-trust legislation which has applied in that country for the last 80 years. That country's chief exports are dependent not upon natural resource-type products but rather upon manufactured products which are gauged against and sold against a very competitive market in the rest of the world. 
Australia's position is totally different. We are exporting raw materials which are dug from the ground. Any changes in the supply of these materials, quite apart from the demand, for them, could have a violent effect on the price structure. In that respect we have only to have regard to the situation in Iran at present. The significant change which has occurred in the supply of oil from that country has brought about a violent change on the world oil market. That, in turn, has reflected itself in the pricing structure of other raw materials, such as copper, gold and alumina, throughout the rest of the world. Naturally Australia, in its national interest, should seek to protect itself against that sort of activity which is ostensibly, without the passage of legislation such as this, outside the control of Australia. Consequently we seek, through this legislation, to ensure that our national interest is paramount and that the matter is kept within the ambit of Australian law. I appreciate the points which  Senator Tate  has made on the amendment which has been moved. I look forward to the comments of the Attorney-General on those matters. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Earlier in the debate today  Senator Chipp  referred to certain remarks that I made in the Senate on Tuesday, 27 February 1979, during the debate on the geopolitical situation. He made the point that during my speech I appeared to make trade the sole issue of national interest to Australia in the China-Vietnam conflict. My statement was taken entirely out of context by  Senator Chipp  insofar as he sought to represent it as an individual fact. Of course, I related the remarks in my speech to the question of peace and stability, not only in South East Asia and in Asia generally but in the world as a whole. I made the point quite clearly then that peace and stability, and in particular trade, were in the interests of all nations, not only Australia. Insofar as the honourable senator represented my statement as relating only to trade, it was a misrepresentation of my point 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral noted a recent United States Supreme Court decision which waived alimony awarded in a divorce case on the ground that the male appellant would be suffering sex discrimination if his wealthy wife were to receive maintenance from him? Is he aware of the great concern of many women in the community about this particular matter? Is he considering the need for any action to amend the Family Law Act to take account of such a situation which could detrimentally affect the position of many women in the Australian community? 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1979 which the Senate is debating relates to specific matters which have been raised through investigations by the Taxation Office. It relates to various schemes which I would describe as being nothing more than tax avoidance schemes in the very real sense of the word. Such schemes pervade throughout the financial community. They are schemes thought out by what I would call 'tax scheme wholesalers'. Their job is to make the maximum amount of money in the shortest possible time. They do not relate at all to the more legitimate systems of the tax planning part of the professional, accounting and legal fraternities. In fact, in recent months these people have created a great deal of difficulty for not only the Government but also practitioners in the legitimate tax planning areas. 
Referring to some of the more general principles that have been outlined in the debate in this chamber and also in the House of Representatives, I would like to make specific reference to the comments of  Mr Willis  in the House of Representatives debate on this Bill. In particular, he went to great pains to quote from a document which somehow fell off the back of a truck in his vicinity. The document was dated 3 November 1977. It apparently is a minute or a document of information passed between two officers in the Taxation Office. 
I understand by the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that such a document did not in fact reach the hands of the Government as such. The point of the memo was to bring to the recipient's attention the impact of income tax as it affects inter vivos trusts.  Mr Willis  quoted at great length parts of the document which clearly attacked the then current activity in the development of inter vivos trusts as a legitimate part of the ordinary business planning operation. The first point I would make in regard to this matter is that although the document was dated 3 November 1977, it relied very substantially for the basis of its conclusions on statements made by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Adelaide on 3 August 1977 and the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Melbourne on 14 
July 1977. The dates of those statements are significant insofar as the statements were made before the Budget was brought down on 20 August 1977. In that Budget, as honourable senators would recall, a very substantial change was made to the personal income tax system. The new system of standard rates of tax of 32 per cent for 90 per cent of taxpayers was introduced in legislation that followed the Budget. At the same time the income earned from trusts by beneficiaries of those trusts was treated differently from the income of taxpayers in the normal sense. 
Honourable senators will recall that the Budget also mentioned that ordinary taxpayers would have zero rated tax applicable to incomes of $3,750 maximum so that there was no tax applicable in those cases. Yet with that same Budget legislation was introduced which provided that taxpayers receiving income from trusts would have only zero rated incomes starting at $418 in respect of taxpayers who were not presently entitled to income, up to $1,040 per annum in respect of those who were presently entitled to income. In that Budget substantial measures were taken by the Government to restrict the activities of trusts and their proliferation in the community. It is also highly significant that the statement which was incorporated in  Hansard  by  Mr Willis  was made up only to 30 June 1976; in other words, to more than a year prior to the date of the Budget in 1977 which so significantly changed the situation as regards the use of inter vivos trusts in tax planning. 
I have not seen them. 
I was referring to the fact that the situation has significantly changed insofar as there has been a very severe restriction on the incentive to use trusts in this way by the amendments in that legislation in 1977. As for the use of particular statistics, I do not believe that  Mr Willis  has made his point by virtue of the issues which I have just raised. 
I will now discuss some of the reasons that inter vivos trusts have become such a significant tax avoidance device in the last few years. I think most of the growth in this area probably goes back to the 1972-73 period when, because of the rapid inflation that we all experienced, it was noted that the incomes of ordinary salary earners and businesses expanded so rapidly that without income tax indexation there was the application in a geometric way of rates of tax that would not have applied had they been adjusted by tax indexation. Of course, the Fraser Government introduced income tax indexation in 1976 after it had come to power to stop the rip-off of taxpayers of all descriptions that occurred during that period of rapid inflation. The point I make is that the rapid growth in tax being charged on taxpayers during that period was in fact taking far more tax from all classes of taxpayers than would have been tolerated prior to that period. As there had been very little change in the rate of income tax applicable to companies, people of all descriptions logically planned their affairs at that time in such a way as to take advantage of companies, but because of the rapidly rising incomes caused through inflation there was an obvious incentive to enter into income splitting devices. Consequently, trusts proliferated at that time and their number grew faster as the rate of inflation grew faster. 
The most significant period of growth in the development of the use of these trusts occurred following the 1975 Hayden Budget which introduced into the taxation system the concept of concessional rebates. This opened up opportunities to expand the number of beneficiaries who could earn zero rated or very low rated incomes and consequently gave a great incentive to taxpayers to split their incomes further than they might otherwise have done. I mention these things not in an attempt to embarrass the Labor Party over the effects of decisions taken in 1973-75 period but to show that the tax avoidance industry is not something that has suddenly grown under the feet of the Fraser Government, that it was very significantly due, as I have demonstrated, to rapid inflation in the period from 1972 to 1975 and that it was encouraged and not diminished by any actions of the Whitlam Government during its period of office. That is not to say that action should not have been taken earlier in respect of particular matters, but I support thoroughly the principles of this Bill and of others that have set out a means by which there is to be curtailment of the various tax avoidance schemes of an insidious nature thathavegrownupinthecommunity. 
As we have often done previously in debates on Bills of this kind, I draw again a distinction between non-commercial activity in tax avoidance, such as the sorts of schemes which are countered by this Bill, and the legitimate tax planning area where people are entitled, as I believe all honourable senators agree, to plan within the law as it is at the moment to arrange their affairs in such a way that they minimise the effect of taxation. Those two vital areas, I think, need to be identified and made distinct. 
As for the use of trusts per se, I think we have to accept that trusts have been in existence for probably the best part of 500 or 600 years and that they serve legitimate purposes in many cases. We have heard a great deal of political discussion about them in recent times until they have received a dirty name. In fact anybody who has a trust is often looking over his shoulder these days for various attacks that might come from any quarter. But the point about trusts is that there is a legitimate operation for them insofar as, as is well known, people under the age of majority, 18 years, are not able to sign contracts which bind them to various agreements and are not allowed to own shares in companies. Consequently, the use of a trust in these circumstances is a legitimate commercial activity. In trying to catch the fly we must not use the baseball bat to flatten it entirely. The fact is that trusts are a part of commercial law and have been a part of our community for many years. We have only to consider the situation as regards deceased estates to realise the very important part that they play in the affairs of our community. 
As regards the so-called legislation by Press release which has been decried in some sections of the Press, I have only this to say: I believe it is of the utmost importance that if a tax avoidance scheme is identified by the Australian Taxation Office, it ought to make its position clear to the public as soon as possible, through the Treasurer by a statement in Parliament or outside Parliament, so that action will be taken and so that the tax planners and others who are engaged in this industry know that after that time they are entering into arrangements at their own risk. Those issues would have been identified. If when the Bill passed they found that it did more than it had been expected to do, as identified in the Press release, it seems to me that this could not be the ground for a legitimate complaint. They were on notice from the time of receiving the Press statement or from the time the statement was made in Parliament. 
-By making a Press statement? 
I fail to see your point. Surely what we are doing in encouraging people to ensure that they take note of these schemes when they are announced. The general matters that are before us are of deep concern in the community and I believe that the Government should be commended for the attempts that it has made to close the various loopholes which have appeared in the law, although no doubt from time to time new loopholes will be exploited by people. Nevertheless, this Bill is a step in the right direction and continues the determined attack on this problem that the Government now has in train. It will lead to success in the long run. I support the Bill. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. While applauding the continued efforts of the Commissioner of Taxation in seeking to crack down on artificial tax evasion schemes, I draw the Minister's attention to a recent decision of the full bench of the High Court of Australia in the case of Smorgan which confirms that a bank holding documents in safe custody will be required to open clients' safe deposit boxes and hand over documents to the Commissioner. Can the Minister state whether such actions on the part of the Commissioner are widespread? Does he agree that banks receiving such requests are placed in an invidious position when they are required to deliver such documents to the Commissioner thereby breaching a contract with a private client? Will the Minister raise this matter with the Commissioner of Taxation to ensure that careful consideration is given to this onerous practice which may be interpreted as a misuse of administrative power in order to break private contracts? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Because of the opposition of the South Australian Labor Government to uranium mining, is it likely that the world's largest copper-uranium deposit at Roxby Downs will not be developed, especially in the light of last Wednesday's announcement of the discovery of high grade copper at 
Benambra in Victoria by Western Mining Corporation Ltd? If so, would this be a bitter blow to South Australia's hopes for industrial development, the blame for which could be laid solely at the door of the Australian Labor Party's uranium policy? 
I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to the recent interest shown by the Storemen and Packers Union in Victoria and other trade unions in superannuation funds of private companies. I refer to the trade unions' moves to take over control of the management of those funds. Is it a fact that wage increases beyond indexation guidelines are being keenly sought by trade union leaders? Do such increases help to maintain high rates of inflation which undermine the job security of all Australians? Does inflation so caused also undermine the security of members of superannuation funds by destroying the financial basis of investments in such funds? If trade union leaders were successful in obtaining managerial control of private superannuation funds, would this not place them in an intolerable position of conflicting interest in undertaking their duties as trustees, which could lead to litigation against them personally by retired persons whose benefits could not be adequately maintained against high inflation caused by other activities of the union leaders? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In order to safeguard members of private superannuation funds against misuse of funds or bad investments by inexperienced and untrained trustees, will the Treasurer consider the introduction of a system of licensing trustees and managers of funds the assets of which exceed, say, Sim, perhaps with the additional sanction that taxation deductions for contributions to funds not so licensed would be reduced or denied. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a scheme recently initiated in an Adelaide suburban high school in which 27 school leavers are being paid to remain at school and to participate in a work study course comprising furniture repair, book repair and industrial sewing work which thereby equips the school leavers with useful work skills? Since the scheme has considerable benefit in that it is aimed predominantly at the unemployed youth group and is internally funded through the sale of salvaged furniture, books et cetera and therefore is not a large burden upon government finances, will the Minister consider promoting and advertising the scheme in other parts of Australia? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry by referring to the fact that late last year the Australian Wine Board spent $200,000 on the promotion of dry red wine as a style. At the very same time newspapers were reporting that a  Dr Chris  Somers, a principal researcher at the Australian Wine Research Institute in Adelaide, had finished developing a revolutionary new style of dry red wine known as April Red ' which takes a mere three weeks from vine to drinking and which was received with rapturous approval throughout Australia. I therefore ask the Minister whether that does not indicate, because these two events occurred in isolation, that a considerable lack of coordination exists within the wine industry resulting in this case of less effective usage of the Wine Board 's promotional funds. 
-Does the Minister for Science and the Environment recall my question in May of last year concerning the high level of infestation in the Adelaide Hills of South Australia of the Portuguese millipede, which invades houses, cupboards, linen closets and so on in huge numbers during the autumn and spring periods of the year? Is he aware that infestations have now appeared in Port Lincoln and Mount Gambier in South Australia? Have the Minister or his agencies undertaken discussions with the South Australian Government authorities to determine joint action to devise biological or other methods of controlling this very troublesome pest? If so, can he report upon the status of such discussions and advise whether agreement on a program has been achieved or is soon to be achieved? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development been drawn to a report in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  noting the decision of the 
Labor Government in New South Wales to increase basic water allotments for irrigation along the River Murray? Does this mean that this trend is likely to lead to a further build-up of salinity in the River Murray, on which South Australia depends for drinking and other purposes? Will the Government investigate this matter and make appropriate inquiries to ensure that the already deplorable quality of Adelaide water is not further worsened by such an irresponsible and unilateral action on the part of the Wran Labor Government, which amazingly seems to disregard the interests of another State governed by a party of its own persuasion? 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that many members of the community continue to show deep concern at the methods used by the Canadians in the seasonal culling of young seals? Can the Minister say what quantities of seal products are imported into Australia? In view of the general revulsion expressed by the Australian public and the world at large, is the Minister able to explain the current Government policy on the continuing Canadian seal slaughter? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that a serious shortage of aviation fuel for pistondriven aircraft is about to restrict severely the operations of general aviation until mid-June at the earliest? Does the normalisation of supply, rely on the arrival of a new tanker load from overseas in early June and the re-instatement of cracking capacity at the Altona refinery, which is currently down for maintenance? Does this reflect a grave lack of concern for Australian consumers? Is it a coincidence, significant perhaps, that this shortage comes at a time when a 47 per cent increase in price has just been finally approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal after a protracted hearing? Will the Minister convey to his colleague the concern of all honourable senators at this development and its implications, with a view to alleviating the most serious effects upon the general aviation industry and its customers?. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of yesterday that a charter airline known as Commodore Aviation intends to fly a regular service between Adelaide and Port Lincoln without licence approval? Is this evidence of considerable frustration amongst general aviation operators at the protracted period of Government consideration of the approval of commuter airlines in Australia? Can the Minister indicate when the Government will be in a position to announce its decision on this matter, particularly in regard to South Australia? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development noted the remarks of  Mr Keating,  the shadow Minister for minerals and energy, calling for the raising to import parity of the price of natural gas produced at the Cooper Basin fields in South Australia? Would such an action raise astronomically the price of electricity in South Australia? Is it a fact that this policy is diametrically opposed to that of  Mr Hudson,  his Australian Labor Party colleague and Minister of Mines and Energy in South Australia? Would such a policy, like the Federal Government's petrol pricing policy, be conducive to conservation? Is it not strange that in one of the few places where the ALP does actually govern rather than luxuriate in opposition-- 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Jessop  in regard to the wine industry. Has the Minister noted remarks by the Opposition spokesman on primary industry,  Senator Walsh,  that the draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission on grape growing was an invitation to impose a wine tax in the forthcoming Budget? In the light of the Minister's previous answer to  Senator Jessop  that the report is a draft report only and that further public hearings will be held, is it a reasonable assumption that  Senator Walsh's  fear-mongering is a figment of his imagination and his only? 
The Prices Justification Amendment Bill 1979 represents a real breakthrough in the realisation of the facts in respect of the economic market place since the years of the Whitlam Government, that is between 1972 and 1975. During that period we saw an attempt by that 
Government to establish a control over business which had not been witnessed in this country before but which, as we all know, stifled investment, reduced the creation of job capacity within the Australian economy and led to the disastrous results of 1975 and the unemployment which persists today.- Quite apart from those particular matters this Bill will lift a lot of the weight from the shoulders of businesses which have been forced, in a very strictive way, to produce information at great cost to the community generally. I ask the Senate to remember that the cost of putting forward submissions to the Prices Justification Tribunal are borne in the end by the consumer, are passed on into the costing structure and eventually flow on to the wage structure. Accordingly, it is not something that is imposed on some entity in the community which does not bear any relationship to anybody else. A cost that is imposed on business is a cost imposed on the consumer. This is the case whether we like it or not. To assume otherwise is totally fallacious. 
This legislation therefore represents a step in the right direction towards alleviating pressure on the consumer because costs will be reduced on business in such a way that the degree of surveillance of price increases in the community will not be reduced in any way. This will not lessen the effectiveness of the Government taking action against undue price rises. I think that that is the essential distinction between the Labor Party's attitude and that of government members. The fact is that by establishing more effective price surveillance methods and better methods of inquiry and by ensuring that the Minister who is going to direct the inquiry is given more power to ensure that he can get more information on price rises he will be able to survey and keep control over prices more effectively than he can under the method applied up to now which is by ensuring that there is a reporting procedure within the community, imposing costs not only on business but, more importantly, on the consumer. That to me is the essential philosophical difference to which this legislation addresses itself. Consequently, I support it wholeheartedly. 1 am very keen to see that this legislation has a speedy passage. While honourable senators on this side of the Senate can only applaud that the Government has taken such measures to relieve the cost to the consumer from this sort of activity, it must be recognised in the community as a whole that this will not reduce the capacity of the Government to ensure that price rises are occurring within due bounds. We had the example recently of the oil price increases. We have seen that that has been a proper and effective way of ensuring that companies are not put in a position of ripping off the consumer. It is that sort of activity which I believe is the proper role of a price surveillance body, such as the Prices Justification Tribunal is conceded to be. I believe that it is that sort of action which will lead to better consumer protection in the future. Of course that is the fundamental difference between the attitude of government members and that of the Opposition. 
Members of the Opposition see the tribunal as some part of the conciliation and arbitration system and as bearing some relationship to the industrial relations framework. They believe that in fact it is and remains and always has been as it was originally envisaged, even by the then Labor Government, as part of the consumer protection legislation of government. In fact, the amendments that have now been undertaken by virtue of this Bill provide more effective consumer protection. I hope that as time goes by there will be integration of the powers of the Prices Justification Tribunal, and of the wider areas of the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act in relation to consumer protection, and those laws, including the prices laws, which apply in the various States. This is certainly an area of great confusion at the present time, and it is something which ought to be integrated properly to achieve more effective administration between the States and the Commonwealth.  Senator Rocher  asked a question only yesterday about the integration of the consumer protection powers of the States and the Commonwealth. I believe that that would be an excellent move in the right direction in order to ensure better control on a national basis in the future. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. 1 preface it by noting that from time to time the proposition is canvassed in the Press that the pattern of southern Australia's rainfall could be improved by flooding Lake Eyre. My question, which follows an earlier question by  Senator Archer  on a similar subject, is: Is there any evidence to suggest that such could be the case in respect of Lake Eyre? Can we draw on world experience to validate such an argument? Can the Bureau of Meteorology offer any opinion on what could be a very useful project? 
I support the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Income Tax (Mining Witholding Tax) Bill which we are debating today. I would like to refer to a lew ofthe matters raised by  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Keeffe,  most of which were wide ranging and lacking in accuracy as to detail. First of all, I refer to what  Senator Gietzelt  said about the taxation of royalties. He seemed to draw a distinction between royalties and compensation. As my colleague  Senator Watson  has so ably pointed out, the term 'compensation' in fact has a meaning different from that which is applicable to the term 'royalty'. In fact the term 'royalty' as defined in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) is quite different from the concept which  Senator Gietzelt  tried to put forward. In fact, we find the following definition of mining payment' in clause 7 of the Bill:  mining payment' means  a  payment made 10 a distributing body or made to, or applied for the benefit of. an Aboriginal or Aboriginals, being - 
a payment made on or after I July 1979 . . . 
Then paragraph (c) reads: 
. payment made . . under provisions of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory that relate to Aboriginals or under an agreement made in accordance with such provisions, being a payment made- 
in consideration of the issuing, granting or renewal of a miner's right or mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land - - 
If  Senator Keeffe  will just listen I will explain it to him. First of all, that item falls clearly within the definition contained in this Bill. Consequently it has the same meaning as is found in the definition under section 6 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. That section of the Act defines 'royalty' as follows:  royalty' or 'royalties' includes any payment, whether periodical or not, and however described or computed, to the extent to which it is paid as consideration for - 
I will skip a few words- 
. the use of . . . property or right: 
I am referring to what  Senator Gietzelt  said. The point is that clearly those payments in respect of mining property are not the sort of compensation which  Senator Gietzelt  was trying to lead the Senate to think that it was. In fact it falls clearly within the definition of a royalty as expressed in the Income Tax Assessment Act. If that payment were made in the ordinary course of business to a person other than an Aboriginal as described in the Aboriginal Land Rights Act and in this Bill, we would expect that that royalty would be both taxable in the hands of the recipient and a deduction in the hands of the payer. Clearly, as a result of that, this item falls within that category. For  Senator Gietzelt  to represent it as some form of compensation is to miss the point entirely and in fact to misrepresent the case. 
The compensation aspect, as  Senator Watson  clearly pointed out, refers to a wider concept. Let us just consider the position of compensation.  Senator Gietzelt  makes the point that compensation in the ordinary course is not taxable. The point he sought to make was that because of that Aboriginals were being discriminated against. It is simply not true to say that that is the position. Compensation is generally taxable. 
-Senator Cavanagh would understand that. However,  Senator Gietzelt  did not qualify the point. In fact it is quite clear that in most cases compensation- and  Senator Cavanagh  would be fully aware of the situation that applies to workers compensation- is taxable in the ordinary way. 
I am talking about the argument put by  Senator Gietzelt  and not that put by  Senator Keeffe. Senator Gietzelt  clearly argued that from his point of view those payments were not taxable and that therefore there was some discrimination against Aboriginals. I deny that this is the case. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber refuse to accept the honourable senator's argument. 
Payments such as those he spoke of would discriminate against others if in fact no tax was applicable to them. On the one hand we would have a mining company claiming a deduction for the amount paid as a royalty and on the other hand no recipitent of the royalty actually being liable for taxation. So as a matter of natural tax law one would expect that tax would be paid on amounts which are claimed as tax deductions by mining companies. That seems to me to be a basic concept. 
I noted the comments of my colleague  Senator Watson  with respect to the Utah Development Co.  Senator Gietzelt  was trying to convince the Senate that mining companies such as Utah pay tax on their huge profits at the rate of only five per cent. That was the clear implication of his statement here last night. Clearly he is wrong on that ground as well. We all know that any company operating in Australia pays 46 per cent of its profits to the Commissioner of Taxation. Any dividends which are paid to shareholders are taxed at the marginal income tax rate applicable. We also know that if money is remitted in the way that  Senator Watson  described earlier it would suffer a further tax at the rate of 15 per cent if remitted to a country with a double tax agreement with Australia or at 30 per cent where this is not the case. The rate applicable to a branch of an overseas company is 5 per cent. That shows the sort of confusion which is in the mind of  Senator Gietzelt. His  remarks are clearly denied by the facts. The matter I have just mentioned is one of the fundamental suggestions which he made. It is refuted by honourable senators on this side. 

 Senator Gietzelt made great play of the argument concerning the Fitzgerald report. I have not been able to find my copy of the report in my files, which is not unusual. As 1 recall the situation we are now going back some four yearsthe Fitzgerald report was written against a background of mining companies in about 1971. As honourable senators will recall, that was around the time when very few of the great mining companies in Australia, as we now know them, had reached their full rate of production. For instance, the Western Mining Corporation Ltd commenced its nickel mining operations at Kambalda in only 1968.  Mr Fitzgerald  wheeled up his great research team, had a look at the situation and judged in 1971 that, because considerable amounts of capital expenditure that had not been recouped from profits had just been put into action by such companies, not much tax was being paid. Of course, those mining companies were not paying tax because they had considerable tax deductions available to them by virtue of their huge capital investment at that time. 
-But the point is that it would take considerable time for that expenditure to be absorbed as a tax deduction. Yet Fitzgerald fallaciously tried to apply the argument that that expenditure had been totally absorbed at that time, and that therefore the very low rate of tax that was paid by the mining companies was a significant indicator of what they would pay in future. That is rot. That is exactly the sort of argument that emanated from the Australian Labor Party during the Whitlam period of office. It led to the discrediting of the Labor Government's point of view on matters such as that. That Government failed to take account of reality. 
Yes, I read it some time ago. I think I have dealt sufficiently with several ofthe matters which  Senator Gietzelt  raised but I should like to mention the resource tax. He spent a great deal of time on it. I think it is wise to note that a resources rent tax, as it is conceived, is really a tax on inflation. Where the prices of the products of mining or petroleum exploration companies rise and fall on the market significant profits are earned. Generally, that is a reflection of inflation in the Australian community or the world community. It is not necessarily a reflection of the true rate of return. This raises a broader question as to what is a rate of return in inflationary times, but I leave that question to one side. Consider a situation in which companies are earning substantial profits as a result of price increases. An oil company is a good example. We have a declining supply of oil, a very important fossil fuel, and we need to explore to find more. But the cost of finding that oil and the subsequent development is astronomical. Profits, if properly measured, have to be related to the cost of future development. If we carry out such an exercise there are substantial reasons for saying that the rate of return earned on the sale of the product at somewhat inflated prices appears more normal if one considers the total capital cost of new equipment for the exploitation of new oilfields. That is the fundamental point. 
A rent resources tax is in fact a tax on inflation. To take tax off a company which earns those substantial profits is to rip money away from its ability to expand and to search. Bearing in mind that such companies have considerable expertise for search and development, they need capital to carry out those activities. If it is our objective to try to achieve that- this country certainly needs to do so, as do others- we should seek to combine the expertise within our mining and petroleum industries with capital so that we can get safeguards against the future decline of our oilfields and our general resources. I have not a lot more to say except to observe that  Senator Robertson  will be - 

 - Senator Robertson invites me to speak longer, so I will, I thought that he was anxious to speak, in relation to what  Senator Gietzelt  said earlier, we spoke of taxation being applicable to recipients. We spoke of the distributing body, as it is defined in the Bill being subject to taxation. As I understand it,  Mr Justice  Woodward made clear in his original recommendations in respect of Aboriginal land rights that in his opinion the amounts paid ought to be taxable. He did not say that they all ought to be taxable. But he said that the distributing body, which would be the collecting agent for these royalties or payments, would use at least part of those payments- probably most of them- for the benefit of the Aboriginal community. It would be used to build halls, houses and so on in various Aboriginal areas. For that reason  he  recognised that not 100 per cent of those royalty payments ought to be taxable. The Government has agreed, after discussions, to 20 per cent of the royalties being made taxable. Because the standard rate of tax at presentignoring the surcharge- is 32 per cent, the effective rate, as set out in the Bill, is 6.4 per cent. That seems to me to be a reasonable situation. It is in line with  Mr Justice  Woodward's recommendations and, of course, it is a reasonable thing in the light of the circumstances. As I described earlier, the amount which is payable, by all ordinary definitions, is income for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Consequently, the sort of arrangement we have is reasonable and I fully support that concept. 
I would like to mention just one other small point in respect of  Senator Gietzelt.  Insofar as he read directly from the  Hansard  record of a speech made by an honourable member in another place, I believe that unfortunately he has made the mistake which was made by ALP spokesmen in the other place. There was a declaration by the members in the other place that this tax is retrospective in some way. I think that is based on a misreading of dates in clause 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) under the definition of 'mining payment' which indicates that payments would be included after 1 July 1979. It seems that Opposition senators have misread that as ' 1 July 1978'. I put that forward with the best of humour. 1 support the Bills. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Does the South Australian Land Commission owe the Commonwealth $52m plus $17m accumulated interest, totalling $69m, as the result of agreements entered into by the Whitlam Labor Government? Is it a fact that no payments of interest are actually due until 1984? Has the Commonwealth Government reviewed the value of the real estate held by the Land Commission? Does the book value of such real estate exceed $80m? Does such value reflect an accumulation of interest, rates and administration expenses and not the true realisable value of the land? Is this the same accounting practice of which Associated Securities Ltd was accused before its collapse in February? Will the Government investigate the true value of real estate held by the South Australian Land Commission to see whether its loan of nearly $70m, which is rapidly increasing, is recoverable in the light of the likely and considerable fall in values? 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the European Economic Community requirements for laboratory analysis of wine imported from Australia into the Common Market. Has there been any progress in negotiations with the EEC toward the recognition of local private laboratories, rather than the single government laboratory, as suitable bodies for carrying out analysis of export wine? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to an article which appeared in today's  Australian Financial Review  and which indicates that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics expects the average income of grape growers in the McLaren Vale grape growing area of South Australia- incidentally, that is not the country seat of an honourable senator- to fall by 55 per cent to $4,600 in 1978-79? Does the Minister agree that this region, which is obviously undergoing economic hardship and does not have the diversified production base of other regions such as the Riverland, deserves particular attention by the Government in its discussion on the final Industries Assistance Commission draft report dealing with the industry which has yet to come to the Government and which by its recommendations appears to play down such hardship? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to an advertisement in the  National Times  of 3 June soliciting subscriptions of $300 to 'Doityourself Tax Schemes Account, Harry Walsh, 
The Tax Scheme Brokers', at an address in North Sydney? Does the advertisement state that such a direct payment entitles a subscriber to a do-it-yourself tax scheme documentation kit which, while stated to have been approved by a leading tax barrister, does not indicate the name of that practitioner? Does the Minister agree that the advertising of such tax schemes must be the epitome of rampant tax scheme retailing, deserving not only investigation by the Taxation Commissioner but also the attention of the Trade Practices Commissioner to ensure that inexperienced people subscribing $300 are not ripped off without first having referred the so-called approved documentation to an independent legal adviser for opinion? 
-On behalf of  Senator Hamer  I present the following petition from 147 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
On behalf of  Senator Missen  I present two petitions from 22 1 and 15 1 citizens of Australia, respectively as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twiceyearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Onceayear payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twiceyearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, refers to methods of valuing assets, particularly land, by some finance companies in liquidity difficultiessuch as the recent case of Associated Securities Ltd- whereby interest rates and taxes are accumulated and added to the cost price of the land, thereby inflating that price to unreal levels which may not be recoverable. Is an accounting standard aimed at upgrading reporting procedures as to the balance sheet values of company assets to be discussed at a meeting of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission in Sydney tomorrow? Will decisions taken be binding on the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory corporate affairs commissions so that non-avoidable common accounting practices will be established in all parts of Australia? 
I think it is necessary in regard to this legislation that is before us, namely, the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill 1979, to have regard to the proper perspective of events, both economic and in regard to taxation.(Quorum  formed).  In rising to speak to this Bill, I draw attention firstly to the broad framework of the economic network within Australia, in order to establish the proper background against which the decisions taken on 24 May were made. It is clear, of course, without reiterating and putting too fine a point on it, that the economic ills generated in the years of the Whitlam Labor Government still exist in many ways in the Australian economy. It is those matters which, through the mechanism of wage indexation, are still generating inflation within the economy. 
We have the situation, therefore, where in the last three years of the Fraser Government we have seen a substantial improvement in the rate of inflation. It has been brought down from a peak of approximately 1 7 per cent to about 8 per cent in this financial year. Of course, we have seen substantial changes in the taxation structure which have been of benefit to the taxpayers of 
Australia generally. On the whole the average taxpayer in Australia now is paying less in real terms than he paid in any of the last 20 years. Consequently, we can see a period ahead when there will be substantial pressure again for reduced taxation, after the Government deals with some temporary factors which are before us at present. 
Let us look at the events of the last 12 months which lead to the decision of 24 May. It is clear that during the last 12-month period beginning on 1 July, the money supply has been growing at a substantially increased rate compared with that of previous years. Whereas the Budget indicated a money supply increase of about 6 per cent to 8 per cent, it looks as though it will pan out at something like 10 per cent for the 12-month period. The reasons for this have been fairly obvious. There has been substantial growth in the capital inflow into Australia in recent months. We have seen also an improvement in the success of our rural industries in that more money has been generated into the banking system through the success of our grain producers in particular. We have seen also improved rural prices which are generating more funds in that sector. Apart from those reasons, there has been a tendency for increased inflation rates to emerge in economies overseas. Honourable senators opposite may well argue that that is not relevant to rates of inflation applicable to Australia, but it would be recognised perhaps by the more enlightened honourable senators on that side that in 1 979 with regard to imported inputs into the Australian economy the situation is significantly different from the situation in 1973. 
It is fairly simple. In 1 973 we had a vastly more valuable dollar which was buying more imported goods at cheaper prices and which represented smaller manufacturing inputs than it represents today. The reduced value of the dollar compared with its then value has been brought about by economic decisions made by the Whitlam Government. That sort of factor would not be accepted by people such as  Senator Walsh  because they argue in political terms rather than on the facts of live. Nevertheless, if we have a situation in which inflation is expanding overseas, with rising manufacturing inputs reflected in prices in Australia as a result, together with the inevitable effect of overseas oil price increases, we must have regard to the possibility of inflationary impacts emerging in the coming months and years. It would be a very imprudent government which decided to allow the money supply to increase more and more rapidly in the Australian economy while it would be possible that those impacts would have an effect on the Australian economy in the months ahead. 
Consequently, it was necessary- which necessity was well judged by the Fraser Government- to take action at the time it saw fit to do so, namely 24 May, to introduce measures which would restrict the growth in the money supply and apply some restraint on the growth of expenditures by the Federal Government to ensure that inflation did not increase at rates that might jeopardise the future health of the Australian economy. Accordingly, it would have been irresponsible for the Government, by allowing full tax indexation and the removal of the tax surcharge on 1 July, to have pumped $ 1,600m into the economy from 1 July over the next 12-month period. Against the background that I have just sketched that would have been an irresponsible action and, consequently, it was proper that the Government delay a final decision with regard to those two matters along the lines that have been outlined in the speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to ensure that the impact on the Australian economy will not be inflationary. 
If we look at some of the impacts of the decisions on individuals in that regard, we see that naturally some concern has been expressed in the Press. Nevertheless, most of it has been illinformed. For instance, there has been a great deal of misrepresentation about the supposed increase in tax that people will be paying on 1 July. Of course, it is true that there will be no increase in taxation on 1 July. The taxation scales will continue exactly as they were prior to 30 June. There will be no further tax to pay. Such scaremongering is well known amongst members of the Opposition and it is good to know that the average Australian will not buy such nonsense as comes from honourable senators opposite. 
The trading stock valuation adjustment was a substantial reform in taxation when it was introduced in 1976. Whilst it has been a measure of real impact in favour of profitability for companies which have been battling against the ravages of inflation, it is obvious that the time has come to reconsider the use of such a method. Naturally enough, that particular operation was designed to offset the effects of inflation, thereby artificially inflating taxpayers' incomes in any one tax year. The effects of removing that at this stage wil take account of the fact that inflation has reduced significantly in recent years. The impact upon taxpayers' incomes in the way that was envisaged previously is not so great and, consequently, it makes sense that such an issue ought to be resolved in the way that it has been resolved as a result of the Government's statement and this Bill. 
Nevertheless, it would be my hope that in years to come the Government would consider the general principle of taking account of accounting adjustments as distinct from taxation adjustments in calculating taxpayers' incomes. I refer particularly to such matters as provisions for long service leave, holiday pay, deferred maintenance and leasehold improvements and payments of that type, which should be taken into account as proper costs and allowed as tax deductions against the incomes of businesses. That would be a substantial recognition of the need for the measurement of taxable income to be equalised with actual accounting income to retain and maintain the liquidity of businesses. Nevertheless, 1 support the Bill and wish it a speedy passage. 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister for Education noticed statements by the Managing Director of Renault (Australia) Pty Ltd,  Mr  Vernoux  that his company is missing out on $30m worth of new car sales because it has been unable to fill vacancies for qualified personnel to assemble Renault and Peugeot vehicles? Is this continuing evidence of the increasing need for more rapid change in priorities in tertiary and skilled areas of education, which the Government already has well under way, as announced by the Minister on Tuesday? 
I rise briefly to direct the attention of the Senate to one narrow area. Before doing so I acknowledge the various submissions that I have received from members of the Commonwealth Police Force. I thank them for their help in informing me more of the operation of the force and congratulate them on the way in which they have put forward their submissions. Several of those issues have been discussed between the force and the unions concerned and also the Minister for Administrative Service  (Mr McLeay)  in previous days. I understand that to a large extent some of the objections which were raised previously have been satisfied. I rise to speak in particular on sub-clause (2) of clause 13 of the Australian Federal Police Bill and to draw the attention of honourable senators to the situation which pertains in regard to the dissemination of information which is collected by the special branches of State police forces, in particular to where the experience of some of those State police forces might pertain to the administration and the future operation of the Federal Police. 
Let us consider in particular the function of the Parliament and the operations of the Minister and the Commissioner in regard to the Federal Police. It seems to me of fundamental importance, with the Westminster style of government which we have in Australia, that the separation of powers is the best safeguard of the individual's liberty; that is, the more we can devolve power throughout the administrative structure within our country and the executive arm of government, the more likely it is that the interests and the liberties of individual Australians will be safeguarded. Accordingly, it seems to me that in these days, with the very considerable arsenal of information collecting procedures which are available to police forces, there is indeed a great need for us to consider how information which is so collected should be disseminated by police forces. In years to come, at the press of a button, we will be able to obtain much detailed information, some of which will be highly irrelevant to particular cases which are being pursued by the police at a particular time, but which could be brought forward during later discussions or when cases are being conducted by, say, the Narcotics Bureau of Customs or, perhaps, to assist with the operations of State police forces, in such a way as to put a final piece to a jigsaw which will bring about the conviction of a wrongdoer. 
It seems to me that it is important that we have a facility to disseminate that information. I believe that in the interests of the individual's liberty, it is of the highest importance that the dissemination of that information should be authorised specifically by this Parliament. I believe that it is of fundamental importance that the Parliament should decide who should be the recipients of that information and that the Minister should not have a specific power of direction in respect of that information which would enable it to be misused for political purposes. That sort of political control through a police force seems to me to be a matter of fundamental concern. I believe that if we have a police force which virtually is at the beck and call of the political masters within the Westminster style of government, the liberties of individual Australians will be placed at very real risk. 
I am trying to truncate the argument as much as possible in order to save time, but I acknowledge the point made by  Senator O'Byrne.  However, the Parliament has a more specific duty to be in a position to authorise the supply of information to specific recipients. I feel that that point ought to be covered by legislation of this type. Hence, my remarks are focused on clause 13 (2) of the Bill. I note that the Minister for Administrative Services, in the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives last night when replying to speeches made during the debate, drew particular attention to that issue. He took the opportunity to inform the House of Representatives that he proposed 'to give a written direction with respect to the general policy to be pursued by the Commissioner in relation to the dissemination of information by the Australian Federal Police'. The Minister went on to say: 
The direction will safeguard the rights to privacy of individuals. I propose to table the direction and it will be revised in due course in the light of the Australian Law Reform Commission's Report on privacy. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I was observing that the Minister, in his reply last night in the House of Representatives, made the point that he will be giving a written instruction to the Commissioner as to who will be the recipients of information disseminated by the Commissioner and that those instructions will be tabled in the Houses of Parliament. I regard that as an interim measure but an important one to safeguard the situation where a Minister, of whatever political persuasion, could be in a position to use his influence over the Commissioner of Police in order to ensure that information is unduly used against individuals in the Australian community. 
I note particularly, that those remarks were also directed towards the report of the Law Reform Commission which coincidentally presented in this House of Parliament today a report on this very matter of defamation and privacy. I wish to read from paragraph 244 of page 1 3 1 , of the report which was tabled today. I intend to make the point that this matter which I have just been outlining to the Senate has been well covered in this report. The report states: 
It will remain necessary to consider specific restrictions upon the use of information obtained in particular ways, for example by eavesdropping or submission to compulsory process. It will also remain necessary to consider specific requirements of information systems to ensure proper protection of informational privacy'. By their specificity, such rules, if enacted will circumscribe the freedom to publish which will remain after the operation of general legislation on unfair publication as qualified by its general defences. 
It has occurred, of course, in many different pieces of legislation passed by this Parliament in other times, that such specific legislation has been set down quite clearly in such a way as to ensure that information is disseminated only in accordance with the will of this Parliament, and not in accordance with the will of a particular Minister who may or may not have political considerations in mind. As an example of that matter I refer to section 16 of the Income Tax Assessment Act which specifically limits the powers of the Commissioner of Taxation to directing that information which comes into his hands can be directed only to certain bodies as set out specifically in that legislation. A few of these bodies which may be authorised recipients of that information under section 16 (4) ofthe Act are the Repatriation Commissioner, the Director-General of Social Services, the Director-General of Health, and so on. Specifically the dissemination of information is required to be established clearly under this law. It is that action which I urge the Government to look at in its consideration of the Law Reform Commission's report on privacy. Specifically, in the light of the Minister's comments in his reply in the House of Representatives last night I urge the Government to ensure that specific legislation is, in the future, brought down in an amendment to this clause of the Bill to ensure that specifics are outlined. Having due regard to that matter and the fact that we are running out of time, I would like to indicate my general support for the Bill. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Bishop  concerning apprenticeships in the Public Service. Recognising the need for considerable restraint in the area of staff ceilings, I ask: Will the Government consider the reallocation of staff ceilings to areas of apprenticeship education and training? 
I wish to point out one or two aspects of the future of the wine industry. Unfortunately, owing to the shortness of time my remarks will be abbreviated. But I want to draw attention to the recent statement by the Industries Assistance Commission in its draft report on grape growing, and to draw attention specifically to the difficulties which the implementation of that report in its draft form would create for the wine industry in South Australia in particular. I draw the Senate's attention to the specific point that I do not believe that it is possible to consider the brandy industry as an industry distinct and separate from the wine industry. I believe that that difficulty, when traced back to the draft report of the IAC, stands out quite clearly as being one of the blockages in the thinking of people when people consider who try to regulate and tax the wine industry. 
I also draw specific attention to the fact that particular crops-for instance, barley- are grown specifically for beer, for the manufacture of spirits or for other purposes. Those crops can be produced over a 12-month period. The farmer putting in those crops can be flexible in the way he approaches his plantings each year. He can choose to put in a grain which is in demand on the world markets and which brings a good price from one year to another. He can choose between wheat or barley or some other grain. Above all, he has only a 12-month commitment. If his crop fails for one reason or another, he has another year in which to attempt to recoup his loss. However, with the wine industry I point out that it takes some six years to bring a vine to maturity. Consequently, during that period the vines need careful tending and their growth needs to be carefully monitored. A very costly investment is entered into. The end result is a very inflexible product. One type of grape is produced, only after a long growing period and a large amount of capital investment. 
In the last eight or nine years there has been a significant market change, but the inflexibility of the wine industry renders it virtually impossible to adapt to such market changes. It is that inflexibility which is at the core of the difficulties of the grape growing industry, particularly, in my home State of South Australia. I believe that the IAC and the Government need to give consideration to the proposition that an element of flexibility should be introduced into the wine industry. I point out the fact that the brandy industry- I link this with my initial statement- is the key to flexibility in the wine industry. As you would well understand,  Mr President,  in a year of surplus grape production brandy can be made and stored for a number of years in such a way as to soak up the surplus production. In South Australia there is a surplus this year of some 1 8,000 tonnes of red wine grapes. That is quite apart from the fact that in the next year or two we will see a significant upturn in the number of vines coming into production 5 to 6 years after their planting. Consequently a surplus of possibly 100,000 tonnes of grapes will come onto the market in the not too distant future. 
Action needs to be taken now to ensure that flexibility is given to the wine industry. I suggest that the Government should give due consideration to allowing the brandy industry to be considered as an integral part of the wine industry so as to provide that flexibility. In order to do that, it should consider the introduction of a differential rate of brandy excise as compared with the excise that now applies to imported spirits in Australia. I believe that that solution is one that ought to be considered by the Government with all due seriousness in the light of the circumstance that has arisen here. Recently a question asked by the honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Giles,  in the House of Representatives elicited that in the last 12 months, whereas the Budget was set down to bring in $130m worth of revenue from excise on spirits including Australian brandy, the likely outcome for the financial year ended 30 June 1979 is less than $100m worth of revenue. So there will be a shortfall of some $30m in respect of that excise. That follows a rise of some 80 per cent in the excise on brandy in the last financial year. I believe that in light of those particular matters and in light of the need to consider the flexibility of the wine industry, so that it can adapt itself to the needs of the future, the reintroduction of a brandy differential in excise ought to be a major part of the Government's consideration. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that many ethnic groups, particularly schools, in Australia often seek cultural material, such as gramophone records, books, et cetera, from countries and that this quite often entails travel by expert people to such countries in order to evaluate the material concerned? Is it a fact that, whilst many overseas national airlines are prepared to grant free travel for such purposes, they are prohibited from so doing by Australian transport regulations? Whilst I appreciate certain administrative problems which might be involved, will the Minister consider altering regulations in order to facilitate this important ethnic cultural activity? 
I rise to speak in defence of the Fraser Government in order to set right some of the statements that have been made today, not only in this debate in respect of the Government's taxation measures but also during Question Time. I see that  Senator Wriedt  is leaving the chamber at this stage. It is his question in particular that I wish to refer to this afternoon. I think we all heard him say quite clearly that the Government had collected $50,000m more tax than was collected by the Whitlam Labor Government. I looked at the figures he quoted. The reference he gave us in his question was page 25 1 of Budget Paper No. 1. It is very difficult to work out his figures because of his obvious misreading of those on page 251. However, it hit one straight away that he was comparing figures over three years under the Whitlam Labor Government with figures over 4'/i years of this Fraser Government's period of office. That is the explanation. It does  Senator Wriedt  no credit to use such an unreasonable debating point. 

 Senator Walsh and  Senator Wriedt  have acted in all sorts of strange ways in order to make points about taxation. In particular, we have read of growths in the rate of taxation collections expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product. During 1972-73- the first year of the Whitlam period of office- income tax constituted 13.7 per cent of the gross domestic product. What was it the next year? It was 14.7 per cent. In 1974-75 the figure grew to 16.6 per cent. In the next year, 1975-76, the figure was 16.4 per cent. Every year since then during the period of office of the Fraser Government there has been a fall in personal income tax as a proportion of gross domestic product.  Senator Walsh  ought to check his facts and at least get his remarks into some sort of perspective before he starts to mislead the public, listening to the broadcast of Senate proceedings, about the operations of these two governments. 
-No, I am not being selective. I am quoting directly from page 247 of Budget Paper No. 1. 
The honourable senator can check the figures if he likes. If he will not accept that set of criteria, I further refer the Opposition to the deflated percentage increases in taxation collections that have occurred in each of the years from 1973-74 to the year ended 30 June 1979. When we take into account inflation for that period we find that in 1974, when the first Budget of the Whitlam Labor Government was presented, taxes increased in real termsthat is, in terms of the spending power taken from the pockets of the people- by 1 9.9 per cent. Nearly 20c in the dollar was taken from their incomes in 1974 not through inflation, but in real money, real spending power. This reduced their standard of living dramatically. The people remembered that in the election of 1975. 
In 1975 the figure rose to 24.6 per cent. In 1976, the first year of the Fraser Government's period of office, it fell to 7.2 per cent. In the next year it was 6.6 per cent. In 1978 the figure was 1.9 per cent and in 1974 a negative figure of 3.2 per cent was recorded. In other words, more was given back to the people in increased spending power and living standards than was taken. Does that demonstrate a denial of the promises of the Fraser Government? We were elected in 1 974 on the basis of reducing taxation and putting spending power back in the dollar after tax. We did it. These figures demonstrate that. It is quite clear that members of the Opposition have no basis for the sort of argument they are putting today. 
Apparently members of the Opposition have disappeared and have no further interest in the debate. This is only typical of their operation. Most members of the chamber will recognise that today an election has been called in South Australia. 
-Senator Bishop says: Hear, hear! ' I see that Premier Corcoran has decided to call this election on the following basis: He says that he wants South Australians to confirm him in office so that he can put before them a package of policies to carry the Australian Labor Party, not the people of South Australia, into the 1980s. He was asked by journalists at his set-up Press conference whether his calling of an election on the day after the Federal Budget had anything to do with the Budget. He said: 'No, it has nothing to do with the Budget'. Yet he said that the Budget would be an electoral issue. He said: 'No, the election has nothing to do with the Federal Budget, but, yes, the Budget will be an electoral issue '. What sort of two-faced, hypocritical approach is this from the Premier who sets himself up as the saviour of South Australia?  Colonel Corcoran  is supposedly going to put value back in the South Australian dollar. 
We talk about high taxation. We have heard about the Whitlam period of office and what the Labor Party did to taxation. Some 20c or 25c in the real dollar was taken out of people 's pockets. The Labor Government in South Australia since 1970 has increased land tax by 210 per cent, stamp duties by 284 per cent, succession duties by 94 per cent and payroll tax by 549 per cent. This has been done by a so-called low tax party. This is  Colonel Corcoran  's way of doing business. Apparently moved by the same sentiments as Opposition senators have expressed today, he is calling an election. This is the sort of hypocrisy we find coming- 
I was just about to show  Senator Bishop  the relevance of my remarks by referring to the fact that the Labor Party is obviously a high tax party. Let me refer to the famous conference in Adelaide. Members of the Labor Party chose Adelaide to tell people about high taxation.  (Quorum formed).  I was just discussing the duplicity of the Labor Party in South Australia and in particular in bringing up the Federal Government taxation record as a matter of urgency today. At a press conference today  Colonel Corcoran  said that he had been contemplating an election in South Australia for some time. He came to office last February on the resignation of  Mr Dunstan,  saying he would not have an election for three years; that he wanted the State to consolidate so that it could recover from a disastrous state that had been created even though Labor had been in office there for almost 10 years. 
I return to the Australian Labor Party Conference held last July and refer to a not very well publicised section of the policy of the ALP on taxation. The policy talks about a wealth tax which will be introduced by the ALP. The ALP has a twisted idea that this will be the great solution to all taxation problems and that it will not be inflationary. The policy states: 
Labor will 'enhance the equity of the tax system- 
I ask honourable senators to note that-  by taxing large accumulations of personal capital above a floor- 
It is probably $1-  that is reviewed regularly and takes into account the special circumstances of farmers, small businessmen and aged people, and excludes the normal - 
I underline' normal ', whatever it means  holdings assembled over a lifetime by persons and family units'. 
I draw attention to that matter because it is clear that the Opposition, if it ever came to government, would be introducing not a capital gains tax but a tax on the wealth of every person in the community. 
Secondly, we all recall that, to our great surprise at the time, in June of 1978  Mr Willis,  who is now the exalted economic spokesman for the Australian Labor Party, said at a conference of Labor economists: 
If Labor does not gain office next election then by 1983, when we could next hope to gain office - 
He was already admitting, apparently, that his party could not win the next election-  we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
What sort of hypocrisy is this, emanating as it does from the rabble on the other side of the chamber? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 


 -Mr President, I am so exhausted by all of this that I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister noticed attempts by the Opposition to denigrate the real benefit of tax cuts, which all taxpayers will enjoy after 1 December, by creating doubts in the public mind about tax indexation? Has the Treasurer made clear, both on 24 May and when presenting the Budget last Tuesday, the Government's policy that tax indexation is something to which it adheres in principle but which it cannot afford at this stage, due to the economic position? I ask the Minister whether he will confirm that in an interview with the  National Times  on 2 1 July, the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden  said in response to a question about his attitude to tax indexation:   . . we're committed to the principle of tax indexation, but I 'm not suggesting that we would go ahead with it immediately. We'd have to weigh up whether we could afford it or not. 
Later, when questioned on his commitment to tax indexation, he said: 
If we  can afford it, we will. 
And that he continued: 
We just don't know what it's going to be like in three years time and anyone who suggests otherwise is talking through the back of his head. If we can afford it. we will. 
-Is this attitude not totally consistent with the Government's clear, frank and honest statements on this matter and does it not reveal the Labor Party's statements as sheer hypocrisy? 
We have just listened to  Senator Melzer  outline the Opposition's-  (Quorum formed).  I thank  Senator Primmer  for bringing an audience into the chamber to hear me. I refer particularly to the matters raised by  Senator Melzer.  She made out a case that there was nothing at all in the Budget for the creation of jobs for young people. We will come to a larger outline of that matter later. I will answer in a short way now the two specific matters on which  Senator Melzer  's case falls to the ground immediately. Business, government, unions and the Crawford report all agree that the way to create jobs in Australia is by stimulating the exports of manufactured products. 

 Senator Melzer obviously does not have much time to read the detail of the Budget and possibly she has missed several very important points. The position is that this Budget outlines a substantial increase for the export incentives grants scheme from about $60m or $70m last year up to a sum of over $2 15m in this coming financial year. If that is not a job creation program I do not know what is. 
Let us consider a couple more examples of which I hope  Senator Melzer  will take note. I refer to the reduction in the coal export levy. There was a reduction of $3.50 a tonne in respect of new mines. Is that not creating jobs? Of course it is. Unless I misheard the speech last night and misread the newspapers today, I am absolutely certain that I heard  Mr Hayden  say that we must cut taxes to create jobs. Heavens above, we have cut taxes. What does that mean? Where is the argument of honourable senators opposite? They have no argument at all. Do honourable senators opposite want some more examples? There are the industrial research and development grants. The Crawford report, the Williams study and the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on industrial research and development point out strongly that there is a need to increase the amount of government money going towards technology and research in this country. What has the Fraser Government done? 
-Of course the Government has done the right thing and I thank the honourable senator very much for his comment. Expenditure for this purpose has increased from $ 14m in 1977-78 to $24m in 1978-79 and will increase to $32m this year. These are the real arguments. This is the direction job creation is taking and this is the most necessary way to do it. For many years the Opposition has made out cases for artificial job creation schemes, that is that everybody could earn a living by sweeping the streets. That is the sort of job creation scheme that the Opposition has in mind. It does not want to create new skills to enable people to convert from one industry to another because it upsets the union movement. That is why it does not want to create new skills. 
Let us have a look at another case in respect of the tourist industry. Most people acknowledge that by the year 2000 the largest industry in the world will be tourism. Of course, this is as a result of rising affluence within the community. Obviously, it will be a substantial area of job creation in the next 20 years. What is the situation in that industry? Obviously, Australia is crying out for more tourist development as a means of assuring job creation. What has the Fraser Government done? It has responded in an incentive giving way by providing for a deduction of  2Vi  per cent on the depreciation of buildings used for accommodation purposes. 
-Senator Cavanagh knows that that is not true. The Government obviously has the very real interests of country people in mind in this industry.  Senator Melzer  must acknowledge this because the setting up of new motel and hotel rooms throughout Australia must stimulate economic activity in country areas. That is clearly an objective of this Government's policy as laid down in the Budget. That is job creation in the real sense of the word. That is using the tax system to provide jobs for people in the most acceptable way for an industry whose future will be great. This is not merely putting people to work with brooms to sweep the streets. That is the Labor Party's alternative. That is job creation in its book. I happen to know that there is a great interest in this depreciation allowance. I am aware of several new developments that are likely to occur as a direct result of that decision that has now been taken by this Government. These will involve substantial investment throughout Australia in the tourist industry thus creating jobs for people to service those motels and accommodation units. That is the proper direction in which to move. 

 Senator Melzer apparently is not yet satisfied with this great string of job creation programs incorporated in the last Budget. I mention another very substantial allowance which was made in order to create jobs in the small business sector, namely, a 10 per cent increase in the retention allowance for private companies. This is so that they can retain more funds to invest in more plant and more buildings to house more workers. If that is not a substantial movement in that area, I do not know what is. Obviously  Senator Melzer  cannot be satisfied. 
Let us look at the broad spectrum of the Budget and see how it fits the developing trends in the economy not only in Australia but also throughout the world. Firstly, we have to consider the disaster from 1972 to 1975 when the Australian currency was brought into disrepute on the world markets. It depreciated at a great rate of knots. Inflation was going through the roof at over 20 per cent per annum. We had a situation in 1974 in which, in real terms, the 
Government took 24c out of every dollar of income from the average wage earner and put it in its own pocket. This 24c was not taken in inflation; it was taken in real terms out of the pockets of the workers. 
I was just reiterating the point that the Whitlam Labor Government extracted from the pockets of the people 24c in every dollar- not  Mr Risstrom  's inflated taxation figures- in 1974 and 20c in the dollar in 1975. What happened in 1 978-79? In the last financial year the Fraser Government actually put back into the pockets of the people a net sum of 3c in the dollar. It did not extract that amount. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-The trouble is that members of the Opposition will not listen to facts. Let us again consider the state of the Australian dollar in 1975. At that time the unemployment which had been created by the Whitlam Government rose from something like 60,000 to round about 300,000 in the space of four or five months. Inflation was still running at about 1 7 per cent when the Fraser Government came to power. The first move was to reduce inflation substantially, as that was the most accepted means of ensuring that jobs were created and preserved. Indeed, that still remains, as it should, the fundamental thrust of our policy. In 1976, because of the state of the Australian dollar, something that had been created by previous economic events in the period of the Whitlam Labor Government, the currency of Australia was devalued by 17V4 per cent. This was followed by a series of moves by this Government designed to reduce inflation. This was carried out quite successfully and brought down the inflation rate in the 1978 financial year to under 8 per cent. On that basis, obviously in the last financial year there has been a step-up in the number of jobs created in the private sector. The policy is working. Some 60,000 or 70,000 new jobs have been created in the private sector as a result of this Government 's control over inflation. 
What does the Budget for 1979-80 do within the broad panorama of that policy? It continues the thrust against inflation. Not even Bill Hayden disagrees with that policy. It has due regard to a very substantial change in favour of Australia in terms of capital inflow into this country. In the last financial year we saw a movement from the area of negative balance in our balance of payments to a substantial credit balance. It is expected that that will occur even more so in this financial year. It means that a substantial addition to the money supply of this country will result from that capital inflow. It would be a most irresponsible government that did not take action to control the fiscal aggregates of this Government by ensuring that the domestic deficit was kept as low as possible. Accordingly the Government has budgeted for a reduction in the domestic deficit to a figure under $ 1,000m. That is clearly designed to offset expected increases in the surplus deriving from overseas transactions. 
-Yes, it is the lowest Budget deficit for six or eight years. As a proportion of our total gross domestic product it has fallen to the almost insignificant figure of round about one per cent. That has been accepted very well in the financial markets which are the source of investment capital for further job creation activities within the Australian economy. The Opposition will not acknowledge that this is clearly a very sound basis for developing the future of this country. This week we have seen an increase of $ 1 ,000m in investment in respect of the Gladstone alumina refinery, something that was not contemplated prior to the Budget. Given the confidence of investment in that particular activity as a result of this Budget, jobs will be created. That is a direct result of the Fraser Government's policy. This Government is in a very sound position from the point of view of raising funds on the financial markets to meet its deficit this year. This means that interest rates will be kept stable, at least. I hope they will continue to fall. 
I would like to make some remarks about economic growth in South Australia. Having recognised that there is a substantial move for increased investment in new plant, mineral activities and resource development projects throughout Australia, it is of the greatest concern to the people of South Australia and to my fellow senators from that State-  Senator Teague, Senator Jessop,  the  President, Senator Sir Condor  Laucke, and  Senator Young-  that this sort of improvement in our domestic economy is not happening in South Australia. In fact, it was projected in the newspaper this morning that an estimated $26,000m worth of projects will be under way within the next few years. This estimate is by W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd. This figure is for the whole of the Australian economy. But how much relates to South Australia? It is less than 2 per cent of $26,000m. This is notwithstanding the fact that the population of South Australia represents 9 per cent of the Australian population. It is incredible, but it is true. 
It is because we have in South Australia a government that is ensuring that these sorts of developments will not occur. The Corcoran Labor Government prohibits any development of the Roxby Downs copper, gold and uranium deposit. That Government, because of its silly, narrow policy on uranium mining, will not allow exploration and development to occur. Yet this particular deposit in the northern part of South Australia is said to be the greatest mineral deposit in the world. If that is so, why are we not getting it under way? Why are we not moving now? No doubt my colleague  Senator Young  would have adequately covered this matter this afternoon during the debate on the matter of urgency so I will not dwell upon it. 
I want to refer to several other matters with regard to South Australia. Clearly, if the people of South Australia get rid of the Corcoran Government on 15 September- I do not doubt that they will- we will see that project go ahead. The Labor Government in South Australia is stopping job creation. A Tonkin Liberal government will create new jobs in South Australia based on Roxby Downs and other mineral deposits in that State. Members of the Opposition should face facts. I am not trying to be political; I am trying to make the point that here is an opportunity for the people of South Australia to ensure that more jobs are created so as to get the economy of that State moving and to ensure that it plays a full part in Australia's continuing recovery and development. The only way to do that- this is not a political statement- is to get rid of the Corcoran Government because it is stopping that development. 
Since the Opposition does not seem to agree with that sort of statement, perhaps some of the people of South Australia and members of the Senate might be interested to hear of some of the great new promises of the Corcoran Government. The Corcoran Government suddenly has found a brand new interest in things like controlling finances. It has been under pressure from the State Opposition on this matter. Yesterday, the day before his policy speech, Premier Corcoran- I was going to say 'Corporal 
Corcoran' but he is called 'Colonel Corcoran'was going to make a statement about the reduction he would make in the number of statutory authorities in South Australia. A report by Ted Knez in today's  Australian  states that, out of 250 statutory authorities,  Mr Corcoran  will abolish eight. Let us hear some of the eight statutory authorities that are to be axed under his new sweep clean' policy of looking after the finances of the State, after the tragedy of the Department of Health losses which were made quite clear as a result of the report of the Public Accounts Committee last February. The statutory authorities which are deemed to be redundant and are to be abolished include the South-Eastern Drainage Appeals Board, the Builders Licensing Advisory Committee, the Dog Fence Board, the Pastoral Board, the Land Board and the Central Inspection Authority. The Premier will amalgamate various classifications of Theatrical Performances Boards. I will bet that Don Dunstan will not like that. Apparently the Premier is going to amalgamate a large number of pest control authorities. This is the state of affairs that we find in South Australia at the moment. Corporal Corcoran came out with an advertisement in today's Adelaide  Advertiser,  which reads: 
The Fraser Liberal Government is the biggest tax collector in South Australia, not the State Government. The Fraser Liberal Government collects $7 out of every $8 you pay in tax. 
What does he go on to say? He says: 
I need your support to tell Fraser to ease off. 
I ask honourable senators: What sort of statement is that, when it is well known that the Federal Government passes back to the State Government about 40 per cent of its revenue for the benefit of that State? 
At least 40 per cent. That is only in direct reimbursement grants. I take  Senator Rocher's  point. On top of that there are housing grants, grants for immigration services, grants for health services through deficit funding of hospitals in South Australia, and so on. Out of that $8 that is collected in South Australia, possibly $5 goes back to the State Government for its expenditure. What a misleading report! What a misleading advertisement, which confuses people in an election campaign- as though it would have some real impact. But most people in South Australia see straight through this man, and clearly they will not support him on 1 5 September if he is prepared to perpetrate such misleading statements. 
I should like to follow that up a little further. Corporal Corcoran is well known in South Australia for his misleading statements. We have just heard how active  Mr Corcoran  is in respect of axing authorities in South Australia. Recently it was my misfortune to have drawn to my attention the fact that there have been several attempts by the State Government to accuse the Federal Government of not making money available to the State for decentralisation grants. There has been a bit of a song and a dance in our State about the fact that Tasmania seems to be getting all the money, and our State is not getting it. That is supposed to be the fault of the Fraser Government and, indeed, of the Federal representatives from South Australia in this House and in the House of Representatives. But what is the truth? This matter centred on the City of Whyalla. Recently, the Federal Government made a grant of $500,000 to Pacific Salt Pty Ltd to create jobs in Whyalla- that city which in recent times has been suffering some difficulty with unemployment. There were three other submissions by the City of Whyalla. There was one for the creation of one or two jobs for an urban social survey; one for the creation of some jobs in respect of an urban bus depot; and one in respect of a hydroponics industry employing two people. 
I understand that those requests are not sent directly from the local government source to the Federal Government for review and approval of the grants under the decentralisation Act. They are passed through the State Government. One would have expected that if the City of Whyalla had made out these cases to the Federal Government and said 'We need your support to help the poor unemployed of Whyalla'- there are substantial numbers of unemployed in Whyallathis request would have received the wholehearted support of the State Government; that is, Corporal Corcoran 's Government. But what has happened? I understand that the State Government in South Australia would not give its support for those projects and that it wrote to the Federal Government and indicated a very low priority for those particular projects at Whyalla. 
Is this Government of South Australia one that is interested in the development of the State, or is it one that is merely trying to make politics out of the truth, to shift the truth and to misuse the truth in misleading ways, such as the way in which this advertisement does, in order to create a mere political support for it that really does not exist? The fact is that the people of South Australia can see through this State Government, and they will give their answer on 1 5 September. It will be a very surprised  Mr Corcoran  who, on 16 September, wakes up to find himself as Leader of the Opposition. I understand that he will not even be in that position and that it is quite likely that he will lose all his positions. I see that honourable senators opposite acknowledge that. That is very interesting. 
Let me conclude by reiterating this most important point: The people should look at the tax cut that is coming on 1 December as a very definite reduction in taxes. The people will know that that is what it is, because after that date the average weekly wage earner will have an extra $4.45 in his pocket. He will know quite clearly, through all the confusion and subterfuge that is going on in this place and in other places, that what some people are trying to perpetrate now is nothing but a misleading statement, and it is unlikely, in terms of the people's understanding, to improve their position thereafter. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer noted the pertinent comment by one L. Pickering in today's  Australian  in the form of a cartoon captioned 'The Alternative Hayden Budget Strategy', which shows a printing press printing money, overseen by a photograph of a smiling, approving Gough Whitlam? Has the Minister noted further comment by others that such an inflationary policy would be extremely destructive of efforts to control inflation and obviously would lead to increased unemployment? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will do all in its power to ensure that the present antiinflationary, job creating policies are adhered to and that such totally unredeeming economic nonsense stemming from the Opposition will not influence the Government's thinking? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and refers to the recent Budget statement concerning the limitation to $ 1 8,000 of depreciation deductible for motor vehicles. Can the Minister confirm that the proposed law will allow a deduction against taxable income of the whole of lease payments in respect of a lease agreement for motor vehicles valued in excess of $ 1 8,000? Further, in respect of hire purchase or chattel mortgages for such vehicles, will the whole of the interest payable on such loans also be deductible? 
I must admit to being extremely confused about this motion. Indeed, I am afraid that when  Senator Button  started speaking I was unable to get the drift of what he was really talking about; but finally it became established that it was nothing but a witch hunt of the medical profession and, to some extent, of the legal profession. He instanced no particular case. He put forward no evidence whatsoever to support certain statements which he made in general terms and which I will now seek to answer as quickly as possible.  Senator Button  made the point that he knew that inflation rates in this country had risen since the Fraser Government came to power. That, of course, patently is not true. The inflation rate has fallen from something of the order of 14 per cent in 1975 to approximately 8.8 per cent today. Similarly,  Senator Button  said that interest rates had risen since the Fraser Government came to power and that this was somehow reducing the real incomes of families. But in fact the bank overdraft rate was 11 1/2 per cent in December 1975 and today stands at  WV2  per cent. In no way can such a reduction as that be interpreted as an increase. 

 Senator Button talked of unemployment. In these sorts of statistics the Australian Labor Party consistently forgets to include items such as the Regional Employment Development scheme- a totally over-paid unemployment benefit scheme which existed in 1975 and covered approximately 35,000 people. That is excluded from the figures quoted. Total unemployment in December 1975, when the Fraser Government came to power, was of the order of 340,000. By today's Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, that number has fallen to about 314,000. That is the sort of nonsense that comes from the Opposition, and it is the sort of nonsense which I must say has been spread around in South Australia in the last three weeks by the Premier of South Australia, because he has simply no basis for argument on State issues. He refuses to argue with the Opposition on State issues and finds that he has only one argument, and that is to knock the Federal Government as hard as he can. 
Every Press advertisement that has been put out by the Labor Party during the current State election campaign is an attack on the Fraser Government. In no way has any campaign advertisement by Corporal Corcoran addressed itself to the real issues of the campaign. That, of course, is the reason why the Labor Party is looking so bad in the polls at the moment. The people of South Australia are not being tricked. The simple fact is that if one studies the results of the poll taken yesterday in the State seat of Torrens one will notice that there is a swing of upwards of 13 per cent to the Liberal candidate and a reduction in the Australian Labor Party vote of something like 16 percent. 
That is according to the South Australian Institute of Technology poll, for which  Senator Elstob  does not seem to have much respect now but for which I notice he had a lot of respect in 1977. Nevertheless, that quite clearly proved the state of play in our State. That poll went on to analyse particular issues.  ( Quorum formed).  Before the quorum was called, I was saying that a poll conducted by the South Australian Institute of Technology yesterday showed that there had been a 16 per cent fall in the Labor vote in the seat of Torrens. I was going on to indicate the issues which are of specific concern to the people in that area. Clearly, these were the points that were made: Of the intending anti-Labor voters, 83 per cent were concerned about the state of the local economy; 86 per cent were concerned - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Collard)-  There is no point of order. I have been listening with great attention to the honourable senator's speech and he is using it to prove a point. 
I intend to draw the strings of the argument together a little later, in order to ensure that even  Senator Bishop  can understand the point. I was about to say that 86 per cent of the people polled in that particular group indicated that they were concerned about the direction of the Labor Government in South Australia and they felt that they were insecure as a result of Labor's continuing term in office. The more significant point was that over the last three weeks the Corcoran Government has been continuing a campaign of denigration of the Fraser Federal Government. I ask honourable senators to guess how many people in that State poll were showing an intention to change their vote as a result of that publicity. Only 1 3 per cent were concerned about Federal issues in this State campaign. The people of South Australia are concerned about the real issues of the State - 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subject-matter of any Question under discussion . . . 
The subject under discussion, in the terms of the notice given, is: 
The growing discrepancy in incomes in Australia under the Fraser Government. 
I put it to you,  Mr President,  that the honourable senator is talking entirely about the South Australian election, which has no relevance to the subject matter of the notice, and in that respect he is abusing the parliamentary Standing Orders. 

 -For Senator Bishop's benefit, I will indicate that what I have been saying about the disastrous state of the Labor Party in South Australia and the Corcoran Government is directly related to what I believe  Senator Button  was talking about. When he began discussing this matter today I was under the impression that we were about to have a rather intellectual debate concerning wage and income policies in this country as a whole. What developed was merely a witch hunt directed against certain professional groups in Australia, and the medical profession in particular. That is wholly and solely what this argument got down to. 
We know that this week in Melbourne the Congress of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is debating the adoption of a new wages policy. I had expected that that would get an airing, but it did not. The ACTU Congress, in its wisdom, has decided in the last couple of days to go outside the wage indexation guidelines. It is to conduct an industrial campaign- which to the Australian people means turmoil- irresponsibly and against the interests of the community generally. It intends to do that just when the economy is beginning to recover. Admittedly, inflation levels represent a problem which will need to be carefully controlled, but an irresponsible action is now proposed by the ACTUapparently as a matter of policy- one that will create difficulties for the rest of the community. 
It is significant that only one week ago the Government of South Australia indicated publicly that it would support a wage claim of $40 a week, outside of wage indexation, by the metal industries of that State. This claim, as many people will understand, and as the people of South Australia will know, has resulted from political pressure by the left wing unions of the State fo: a settlement of the strike which the metal trades planned to call in the early part of this month. What the State Government, in all of its desperation, did was to say: 'Call off your strike. We have an election on. We promise to go to the Arbitration Commission and support your $40 a week claim'. That action on the part of the South Australian Government has been an absolutely - 
-Yes, and so would be the honourable senator if he had to consider such horrors. The national Press has taken up this issue with great vigour and has realised that if that were to occur in South Australia the effect would flow over to the rest of Australia. Thus, that action of the South Australian Labor Government, controlled by Corporal Corcoran, would have been designed to bring about a wage change in this country. I believe that that announcement had a considerable influence upon the deliberations of the ACTU and that the body has now shown itself to be just as irresponsible as  Mr Corcoran  has been because it has now pursued a similar wages tack. As a result, it is clear that the present Labor Government of South Australia does not deserve to continue to exist as such. In terms of its national responsibility it has shown itself to be irresponsible. Clearly, it has given away its political responsibility- if one likes to use that term- in regard to controlling wage levels in this country. It does not give a damn for the rest of Australia. On that issue alone, quite apart from local South Australian issues, the Corcoran Government stands condemned. 
One can only hope, as I said two weeks ago in the course of the Budget debate, that next Sunday morning  Mr Corcoran  will wake up and find himself leader of the Opposition. But that will not be for long. We all know who is waiting in the wings. We know that  Mr Duncan  is waiting there to step in and take over, in his left wing glory, the control of the South Australian Labor Party. It is pretty clear that this is the matter in that State which will urge people to vote for the Liberal Party on Saturday. All of the indications are that people are aware that Labor is destroying the State and in fact, as I have just demonstrated, the rest of the Commonwealth with it. I do not believe that that is too long a bow to draw. Honourable senators will recall that a certain pacesetting wage increase in the Public Service of the Commonwealth in 1974 subsequently flowed throughout the community and brought with it the tragic rates of inflation, and consequent unemployment, that occurred in the 1 974 and 1975 periods. I guess that if Corcoran is returned to power on Saturday taxes will go up in South Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Is there to be a meeting of State and Federal Ministers of labour on Friday? Will the South Australian Minister, John Wright, be attending the meeting? If not, is his absence due to illness, or some other personal reason, or to pressure from his union masters to stay home because of the desperate state of the Australian Labor Party in the last days of the State election campaign? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development to an article appearing in this morning's  Australian  relating to the first conference on the jojoba plant to be held in Australia, at Bathurst this week. I ask whether the Minister is aware of the remarkable claims which have been attributed to this plant in terms of its being one of the viable answers to the world energy crisis, as well as being a substitute for whale oil? If that is so, can the Minister indicate what research on this plant has been carried out by the Australian Government and whether the Government will consider making special grants to firms interested in developing such projects under current energy development programs or, alternatively, to progressive State governments such as that in South Australia for such purposes? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows an earlier question from  Senator Wriedt  concerning overseas loans. Is it a fact that the loans raised by Australia over the last three years have not been used to fund the domestic operations of the Government and are invested off-shore? Was there a net reduction in borrowings of the order of $ 130m last year? Is the outlook for private capital inflow substantially better now than two years ago as a result of the successful borrowing program of the last two years? Will this mean a stronger Australian dollar and a better outlook for investment in the domestic economy? Will repayments of loans be funded from off-shore deposits? Does the Minister agree that the action taken by the Government has proved to be a great success and in no way is comparable with the program of the Australian Labor Party in 1 975, which was to put the country in hock to fund domestic socialist enterprise? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a scheme operating at Flinders University in South Australia known as the bridging employment training scheme which aims to assist graduates, who cannot immediately find other employment, with work as part time research assistants? Is the scheme funded from gifts by members of staff and friends of the university, which are tax deductible, so that a small number of graduates can be employed for about 20 hours a week, up to a 12-week period? Are such schemes widespread in other tertiary institutions around Australia? If not, will the Government consider promoting the scheme in other relevant institutions? Finally, will the government consider an examination of the scheme with regard to assisting its expansion, perhaps through matching grants? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an innovative scheme proposed by the Master Builders ' Association of Victoria which envisages the indenture of building trades apprentices to the industry association rather than to the individual contractor? Would such a system reduce the risk of apprentices not completing their training in the event of an employer going bankrupt? In the interests of keeping these people in the building industry work force, will the Government investigate such a proposal with a view perhaps to encouraging its extension to other industries? 
In view of mounting concern for the grave social effects of unemployment, can the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate of the latest trends in unemployment? Has the situation worsened or improved in the last 12 months? Is the Government's anti-inflationary policy consistent with the objective of creating more jobs? Does the Government intend to bow to pressure to abandon its anti-inflationary policy and, in particular, its determination to contain the rate of wage increases? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the headline in today's  Australian,  which states: 
Uranium, copper and gold bonanza. $ 1,000m go-ahead for Roxby Downs. 
I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Labor spokesman,  Mr Keating,  has warned that the project would go ahead at its own fisk? Is it a fact that  Mr Keating  reaffirmed that any future Labor Government would allow only companies with existing contracts to honour their .orders arid warned companies that they would be developing new mines at their own risk? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the details of the Acting Treasurer's statement yesterday and reaffirm the Government's determination that this project, which is vital to South Australia, should proceed in spite of the reported threats of the Hayden Opposition and the militant unions associated with the South Australian Trades and Labour Council? 
-On behalf of the Government I will gladly take up the challenge of the Opposition with regard to the economic management of this country, because quite clearly it was Labor's period of government that created the mess in this country. The people of Australia know it. The people of South Australia demonstrated on 15 September that they still know it. The fact is that without the courage and determination of the Fraser Government to right the wrongs in the economy there would not have been the achievements that we have seen since 1975. Let us look at some of the points which the OppositionSenator McAuliffe in particular- has been making with regard to the borrowings by the Whitlam Labor Government during the latter part of its period in office. We remember quite clearly its attempts to borrow money for temporary purposes. We remember quite well the minute signed at the Lodge on 13 December 1 974 as an authority to raise borrowings. 
I do not intend to be sidetracked into an argument of that sort. This matter has been demonstrated. Clearly it was not so much the fact of the loan but the purpose behind it which brought Australia's reputation overseas into disrepute at that time. It was clearly that perception of the Australian people at that time which brought about a change of government. 
Let us consider some of the suggestions from both  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Wriedt  with regard to the present overseas loans.  Senator Wriedt  made the point that, as a result of the currency movements in the last 12 months, $525m would be added to the total loan repayments. Quite clearly that is a classic example of extrapolating long-term trends from short-term movements- movements over the last 12 months or so. Most of the loans that have been raised over the last three years have expiry dates that extend to 20 years. Most of them are for more than eight years. One small loan of 250 million Swiss francs has a five-year term but most of them are in the 10, 1 5 or 20 years range. It is ridiculous to state that a movement of $525m on that sum- only 12 per cent of the total principal, I might add- somehow represents a growth in the sum to be repaid eventually. I hope that the people of Australia will not be attracted to that sort of misleading statement which  Senator Wriedt  would like us all to believe. The mistake of trying to demonstrate that short-term movements in currency trends, as the result of the need of governments to raise money from time to time for financing transactions in a particular year, will somehow be part of longer-term trends is the basis of this attack today, and of course it has absolutely no foundation. 
Let us look at the reasons for the need to raise these borrowings in the first place. I think we have to consider a little of the history of the last few years. In fact we need to go back to 1973 to consider what has happened with the currency reserves of Australia during the last five years. Honourable senators will recall that immediately the Whitlam Government came to power in December 1972 there was a revaluation- an upward valuation- of the Australian dollar of about 7 per cent against the United States dollar on the world market. This was followed later that year by a further upward movement of around 5 per cent. About a year later- in September 1974- there was a downward movement, a devaluation, of about  2lh  per cent. That was against the thrust of economic pressures which were causing enormous unemployment. We will recall that there was an increase in unemployment from 60,000 to over 200,000 in five or six months. These trends were fuelled by that fundamental evil- inflation- which the Whitlam Labor Government failed to come to terms with, which was the underlying pressure on the economy and which has created the difficulties that we are still suffering. It has been demonstrated that the Whitlam Government's devaluation of the dollar by  l2Vi  per cent in September 1974 was clearly a result of the weakness of the Australian currency and of a loss of faith in the Australian dollar on the world currency market. That was a demonstrable fact. 
Of course, we saw a furious and desperate attempt by the Whitlam Labor Government to recover the economy in the latter part of 1974. Instead of attending to the very real pressures on the Australian dollar at that time, what did it do? Did it seek to redress the problems of inflation and unemployment as rapidly as possible? No; it sought to enter into all sorts of pie in the sky schemes. It sought to raise $4,000m overseas in order, we now hear from  Senator McAuliffe,  to use it for a purpose related to mining projects. I say to  Senator McAuliffe  that that was not demonstrated or stated at any time when his Government was being questioned on the matter in this place and in the House of Representatives. We know the history. I will not go into that any further, except to say once again that those borrowings were for temporary purposes.  Senator 
McAuliffe can say what he likes about the Labor Government having borrowed only $400m in the period in which it was in power, but quite clearly the sum that Government intended to borrow was far higher than that. 
But let us not drift too far from the point. The fact is that the Labor Government at that time was not seeking to redress the fundamental problems of the economy in order to stabilise the value of the Australian currency. What that Government did was to damage the reputation of the Australian currency by seeking to encourage all sorts of odd people, such as  Mr Khemlani,  to attempt to raise funds from around the world and by offering authorities to various people to raise money on the world money markets. All sorts of side-alley activities, which obviously would have had a tremendous effect upon the borrowing power of the Australian dollar, were undertaken. 
But what is the current situation?  Senator McAuliffe  tried to make the point that Australia's reputation was not very hot overseas. In a document outlining the credit rating of institutional investors for 1979, Australia ranks tenth out of a total of 93 nations. It is one of the top ten nations which have the highest credit ratings in the world at present. The ranking is: The United States, West Germany, Switzerland, Japan, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Norway and then Australia. Those countries have demonstrated their strength on the international markets and Australia is recognised, as a brother to those great nations in the world markets. 
We have to ask ourselves why that is so. Why is Australia so highly regarded on the world markets? The fact is that we have a government which has demonstrated its ability to attack the fundamental problems of the economy. We have seen the Fraser Government getting inflation under control and in fact reducing the inflation rate from about 17 per cent in 1975 to about 8 per cent in 1979. They are facts. Quite clearly, those efforts and those absolute achievements over the past few years have inspired the world money markets to have confidence in this country. It is demonstrably clear from the stock market, from the price of Australian mining company shares on the stock exchange, that a great deal of interest in this country is shown overseas. That will continue. 
I deal in particular with the credibility problem because I believe that it is at the core of Australia's economic growth. We are about to burst into a new expansionary era in the mining industry, as was demonstrated clearly in the announcement made yesterday in regard to the BP organisation's investment in Roxby Downs in South Australia. Clearly, enormous interest in our resource projects is building up overseas, in particular our energy projects. We know of their vast potential. It is clear that Australia needs capital to develop those projects. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development recently announced that Australia ranks very highly as an energy-rich country. It obviously has great potential for future development. 
Honourable senators opposite cannot bear to hear the truth. We have a situation in which clearly Australia needs foreign capital. In order to get foreign capital it requires a very good credit rating on the world 's markets. The key to that is to control the economy, in particular inflation. The control of inflation is at the core of Australia's monetary and economic control. Obviously only one government in Australia can possibly contribute towards that control in an effective way in terms of the overseas situation and that is the Commonwealth Government. I refer, of course, to the Fraser Liberal-National Country Party Government. Clearly, the Opposition cannot offer any alternative to the Government's proposal. There is no likelihood that the Opposition can offer a clear incentive for people to invest in this country, whether they be overseas or in Australia. A situation is developing in this country in which faith in the Australian dollar will develop more and more. There may be fluctuations from time to time. 
I return to my original point.  Senator Elstob  attempted over the radio to make the point that there will be a run-down in the value of the Australian dollar. He can suggest that if he wishes, but the point is that he is extrapolating long-term trends in the currency and in the international sphere from very short-term data. That is a very unsound approach to adopt in trying to assess trends in any situation within any economy, or for that matter, business. But certainly it is a very unfortunate way to try to assess an international situation. We know that in recent times the world 's money markets have been affected very greatly by the dramatic increase in the price of gold, which was related to a decrease in the value of the United States dollar on the world's markets. 
-Senator Elstob totally misunderstands the point. The fact is, as he would know- that is, I hope he knows- that Australia trades mostly in United States dollars; consequently, the Australian dollar and the United States dollar are tied together through the basket-weighted system. They move in relation to each other. That has been a fact of life over the past few years. Indeed, that is something we will learn to live with as time goes on. But the point remains that confidence in the Australian dollar is developing more and more on the world markets. That claim is reinforced by the most recent export statistics, which indicate that our exports are growing at a faster rate than our imports. We can see trends developing there. Nevertheless, I do not want to fall into the trap of of extrapolating long-term trends from shortterm data, as the Labor Party is trying to do. 
I support the Loan Bill 1979, which is designed to give legislative effect to the financing of the government deficit. I do not think there is any need to go into the mechanics of this operation; rather, I shall address my remarks very briefly to the general format of the deficit and to the way in which it is to be financed. I would like to refer to the deficit operated by the Government and to its effect upon the economy as the air-hose syndrome.  (Quorum formed).  I hope my colleagues do not think that I called the quorum myself. I was referring earlier to the air-hose syndrome which relates to the deficit incurred by governments in running the economy. Because the Government is so involved in the private sector of the economy and because it does in fact incur a deficit, a difference between income and revenue which has to be raised from the people by way of borrowings, we have a stepping on the air-hose effect, cutting off the supply of funds for the private sector. Consequently it dries up interest rates and makes it more difficult for private industry to get going. That is precisely the situation under which we have suffered over the last five years or so. 
-The air-hose syndrome is one of concern in my State of South Australia because of the activities of the former Labor Government in respect of over-regulation of the economy. The effect of that sort of control and that sort of involvement upon interest rates and the capital market generally is crowding out, as  Senator Walsh  so well put it, the private sector and making it extremely difficult for it to expand in any circumstances. The objective of the Fraser Government since it came to power obviously has been to try to reduce that deficit. It has succeeded in real terms in achieving that over the last four years. Let me refer to the Budget Speech which indicates that the overall deficit for the 1979-80 year is estimated to be $2, 193m. This will be a reduction of some $ 1,285m on the 1978-79 year. 
It is over $ 1 billion, as  Senator Young  points out. Excluding overseas transactions, the domestic deficit will fall from some $2,258m in 1978-79 to a figure of only $875 m in 1979-80. 1 see  Senator Walsh  squirming as he hears the truth. In fact the deficit as a proportion of gross domestic product will fall from 3.4 per cent to only 1.9 per cent of the total gross national product. This is a significant point to make.  Senator Wriedt  clearly was leading the people who were listening tonight to believe that somehow the deficit had increased over the last few years and that in fact the Liberal governments since they have been in power from 1975 have been in favour of increasing the deficit. Nothing could be further from the truth. It is the objective of the Fraser Government to ensure that the deficit decreases over time. ' 
I want to make one other point. I refer to the important part which the deficit plays in the total money supply of Australia. It is well recognised that a rise in the rate of inflation which may occur rapidly from time to time is always immediately preceded by increases in the domestic, money supply. 
-We can argue about 1973 and about 1951, but these facts can be related. As we now well recognise, the increase in the deficit of the Government obviously leads to an increase in the money supply. The improving performance of the Australian economy overseas, because of increased competitiveness and improved performance in the rural sector, is likely to lead to an inflow of capital from overseas into new resource projects plus, I hope, smaller deficits on the current account of the balance of payments. A deficit which is of the order of, say, $4,000 m which I understand is the Opposition's proposal at present to soak up unemployment would obviously add significantly to the money supply, thereby leading to further inflation and consequently, as we all have observed over the last five years and particularly under the Whitlam Government, to further unemployment. 
Certainly those on this side of the House recognise that inflation leads to increased wage pressures which deprive other people in the community of jobs. Inflation is the root cause of unemployment and unless Australia conquers that we may face continuing problems with unemployment over a number of years. Our objective in this country is to defeat inflation so as to ensure that people get back to work. I support the Bill wholeheartedly and support the Government 's objective in seeking to reduce the deficit so as to ensure that not only is inflation brought under control and significantly reduced in this coming year but also the job situation is improved because of the lower inflation rate. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the introduction by the Thatcher Government in the United Kingdom of a new statistical index- a tax and prices index- which measures the combined effects of changes in direct taxes and prices on people's purchasing power? Would such an index, more accurately than the consumer price index, measure changes in prices paid by households for goods and services as it would take into account the effects of net take home pay resulting from changes in direct taxation? Will the Government consider the construction of such an index in Australia to provide a clearer picture in the change of net household income for review by arbitral tribunals, the Government, consumer groups and other interested persons in conjunction with the CPI? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the high level of concern amongst pharmacists at the increasing frequency of hold-ups, burglaries and break-ins of their premises by persons in search of drugs? Is it in the interests of all that pharmacy premises be as secure as possible? Is he aware of certain commercially available centralised alarm systems which involve the use of Telecom landlines costing an average of $800 per annum in rental? In view of this considerable cost to what are predominantly small businesses, will the Minister consider the allowance of a substantial price concession for the rental of such landlines for that purpose? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the concern of South Australian vignerons that the Australian Bureau of Statistics is intending to eliminate its survey of vine plantings and grubbings- forgive the word- as well as grape variety acreages? Will he take up the matter with his colleague to ensure that statistics will continue to be collected and published in the future? 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Education to the report of the Australian Heavy Engineering Industry Advisory Council recently tabled in the Senate. Is he concerned that the report reveals that the number of students graduating with degrees in arts, the humanities, economics, commerce, government and education is some 54,000, compared with the number of such graduates already in the labour force of 50,000? Is he also concerned that people training to be tradesmen, of whom there is already a serious shortage, such as those studying in the electrical, motor, printing, metal, building, furniture, clothing, footwear and textile trades, number 98,000, compared with the number in the present labour force of 6 14,000? Because of this imbalance will he refer the matter to his Department for further comment? 
Although in this debate I follow the amiable  Senator McAuliffe  from Queensland, I am sorry that I will not be able to support his remarks, as it seemed to me that they were almost totally irrelevant to the Bill before us tonight. I would like to deal with some of those matters as we proceed. I make one remark with regard to the statement made very early in his speech that he sees this Bill as being totally synonymous(Quorum  formed).  Early in his speech  Senator McAuliffe  referred to the terms 'anti-worker' and 'anti-union' in exactly the same context, as though the two were synonymous. I submit that that is not so and that, in terms of the legislation before the Senate tonight, the words he was using relate to the support of workers and in no way destroy the unions in a constitutional way. 
Later in his speech he referred to International Labour Organisation conventions. In so doing, it was fairly clear that  Senator McAuliffe  sees this legislation as an attempt somehow to undermine the freedom of association of trade unions. He put forward no argument in respect of that and it seems to me quite reasonable to expect that unless his case can be made more forcibly, he cannot expect much respect from this side of the chamber. The point is that in his speech there was no indication of any attempt in this legislation to cut across the freedom of association of any trade union, whereas the core of this legislation is to provide an opportunity for particular workers and individual members of a trade union to express their views in a free way. I fail to see the honourable senator's argument that somehow the legislation which is before us tonight in any way destroys the point he was speaking of. It is fairly clear either that he was referring to another piece of legislation outside this jurisdiction or that his argument was totally off track. 
Let us look at the Bill itself. I believe that it contains three important thrusts which require further amplification. Clearly the aim of the legislation is to speed up the settling of disputes. It contains improved methods of ensuring that hearings come to a speedy conclusion and that matters get before commissioners and higher officers in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as quickly as possible. Secondly, there is a provision for increased consultation between the commissioners and higher officers of the Commission. As has been made clear in the Opposition's presentation of this debate, there is a very clear case for increased consultation at all levels of industrial dispute settlement. Consequently, one can hardly accept the suggestion that the Opposition would not agree with the thrust of this legislation in that respect. Thirdly, it ensures a faster and simpler means of settling disputes. There is an attempt to extend the powers of the  President  to intervene in particular cases - 
I will come to that. There is provision to refer matters to the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in certain circumstances. Let us look now at the very bases of the industrial relations settlement system as it applies federally. We have noted that over the last 70 or 80 years the arbitration system has developed in such a way as to reflect the views and needs of any particular time. But at all times, the Arbitration Commission has been the creature of the Federal Parliament. In fact, the source of all power for the Arbitration Commission in its dispute-settling practices and procedures has been the Parliament. 
Yes, but it is granted in terms of the laws that have been made by the Parliament for the establishment of the Arbitration Commission and its dispute-settling procedures. The Parliament, as we are all fully aware, is elected by the people. The unions are not. They are elected by members of the unions themselves. Quite obviously, therefore, the superior power must reside in the Parliament itself which, as has been pointed out, derives its power from the Constitution. 
The Arbitration Commission was established back in 1 904. During the constitutional conventions of the 1 890s there was some debate about what form of power the Federal Parliament should have over its arbitration procedures. 
Clearly, there was then a very strong State bias. All power resided in the States. There was a suggestion that perhaps total power should be vested in the Federal Parliament.  (Quorum formed).  I apologise to my colleagues for them having been needlessly called to the chamber. I was making the point that the power of the Arbitration Commission derives from the Constitution and, of course, from the Parliament itself. 
During the constitutional conventions of the 1890s there was much discussion of the way in which power should vest in the Federal Parliament. In fact,  Mr Kingston  of South Australia proposed in 1891 that the Federal Parliament should have total power in this area. However, the States were jealous of their powers at that time and clearly did not want to hand them over to the Commonwealth. However, we now have set out in section 51, subsection (xxxv) of the Constitution the power of the Commonwealth to legislate in this area so that industrial disputes which affect more than one State may be handled through the Arbitration Commission. That position has been subject to refinement ever since. I make the point that at that time the Federal Parliament discussed very deeply the question of the powers in this area that it ought to assume. In fact, it has set up the Arbitration Commission, not so much as a way by which the law itself would be judged, but rather in a way by which the law would be administered so as to carry out the practical duties and purposes of settling disputes. The Commission has remained the creature of the Parliament. 
There is perhaps an argument in favour of extending the powers of the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament over industrial relations as they affect the States. In fact, in recent days and months there has been quite a deal of discussion on that subject in the newspapers. The idea has received considerable support from not only newspaper editorial writers but also from the State Premiers. There has been talk about the reference of powers to the Commonwealth for that purpose. My point is that the role of the Commission itself represents the centrepiece of the Australian industrial world. It has the job of settling disputes. It has the massive task of trying to deal with the affairs of some 300 trade unions spread across six different State jurisdictions. It protects the standard of living of workers and the very society in which those workers live. It is constantly beset by very detailed problems concerning working conditions, work value cases, the basic wage cases that occur from time to time and so on. All in all, the Arbitration Commission is a huge institution which has a massive impact on the economy and on the whole of society. 
Since those first days of the Constitution the evolution of the Commission has proceeded apace. It has become one of the most important institutions in the country. It is not in itself strictly a judicial body but rather an arbitrative body, one which administers the industrial law. In earlier days the Federal Parliament debated whether it would take unto itself the power to administer the detail of industrial law. It decided in 1 904, as a matter of expediency, to set up the Arbitration Commission. As a body with such central power and such great importance- its decisions are impacted upon the community- its role obviously extends far beyond the very superficial tasks that it sometimes performs. Clearly, it owes a duty to the people of Australia to be very careful in its judgments because of the impact of those judgments upon our society.  (Quorum formed).  I want to make the point in the shortest possible time- for the sake of the Oposition- which was made clear in the middle 1 950s in the Boilermakers case, that the role of the Arbitration Commission in Australian society is of fundamental importance to the future of the society itself; not only to the future of the trade unions, not only to the future of the employers or indeed only to the economy. It concerns the people of Australia in the broadest possible sense. Its power stems, as I have demonstrated, from the Federal Parliament, which stems from the Constitution itself. 
The role and the duty of the Arbitration Commission is to have regard to that very important interest of the people of Australia as a whole. One of the difficulties in the administration of such a body, which is not strictly a judicial body, is the need to be able to carry out, to propose and put down consistent interpretations of the industrial law which, as I have said earlier, affect not only the Federal awards or Federal situation throughout Australia, but the six State jurisdictions in this area as well. In that way the leapfrog approach, the fact that there is a roll-over of decision making from the Federal body through into other jurisdictions, means that this consistency of decision-making is of the highest importance. Yet we have situations and have observed them over the last few years of decisions being made at the various levels of the Arbitration Commission which have, in fact, flowed over and caused enormous disruption for the people of Australia in all sorts of situations. Consequently I believe that the overriding consideration of any body such as this must be for the interests of the people of Australia as a whole. 
As far as the Parliament of Australia is concerned, it is a question of who is making the rules. The people want the rules to be observed, they want the rules to be written in such a way that it looks after the general interests and the interests of the population as a whole, not of sections of it. The South Australian election recently demonstrated that. I believe the results of the 1977 Federal election demonstrated this, as did the 1 975 Federal election. Recently the Australian Labor Party conducted a media survey, a poll in  Mr Chapman's  seat of Kingston and this has been reported in the media. I understand that this showed a very great concern with the union movement and its activities. The people of Australia want laws which will be observed. 

 - Senator McLaren says The people do not know the answer'. 
-Well, it has been reported. I have not heard it tonight. The Arbitration Commission is, of course, in a position to be able to smooth the way for decisions in this area but there is this massive weapon that has been used against the people of Australia in various ways. It is not used so much against employers, those people who can afford it. It is used against the people of Australia and it is their interests which are being affected. The weapon of the strike is treated as though it is the final solution, it is not treated as though it is a weapon. It is used like a bludgeon to beat the people into submission. The newspapers have railed against strikes. Is it not proper, therefore, in the light of the argument that I have put forward that there is a very real need for the Parliament itself to take a constant interest in the affairs of the people who elect the members of Parliament, who have to make decisions about what laws ought to be observed in the interests of the people? 
What we need in Australia is a more responsible and responsive industrial world to make sure that the people's will is properly interpreted. The power and the source of the power is the Parliament and the Commission, and the unions should listen to that power and to the expression of that voice through the Parliament. That is not to say that the Parliament itself should direct in respect of policies. Getting down to this particular legislation, it is pretty clear that that is not indeed its thrust. It is not to change policies, it is to change the ways in which the Commission itself will be administered. That seems to me to be the matter that is in issue here and, quite clearly, the five or six matters which are included in the legislation require consultation by the commissioners with the  deputy  presidents. I do not think that anybody could say that that is not a good practice, nor would it be a delaying procedure in the normal course of events. 
-Yes, but the circumstance arises on many occasions where, on points of law, it is necessary to take advice from others. ls the honourable senator saying that that should not apply? 
All men of prudence such as yourself would. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Order! Address your remarks through the Chair, please. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  There is prohibition on the Commission to make employers provide back pay to employees for periods of industrial action. This particular matter is one of very real concern in the community insofar as people who put other people and the general sections of the community to some sort of damage are seen, according to some of the decisions that have been propagated from time to time, not to have been disadvantaged themselves. Surely those who put themselves and others to risk and damage ought to suffer damage themselves. That is a clear rule. I have no argument with that particular section of the proposed law. There is a third section that relates to the speeding up and hearing of standdown applications in respect of the law. Quite clearly this is an area where there is a requirement to get matters moving and to get disputes settled quickly. Obviously to speed up that method of operating is to the advantage of all, particularly to the people of the Commonwealth. Other matters relate to the extension of the number of matters and the types of matters than can be referred to the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission. All these matters are designed to speed up the settlement of disputes. If the Opposition claims that that is not a worthy objective, it is entitled to its view; but obviously the people of Australia, as they express themselves by their votes in the elections for members of this Parliament, say otherwise. I think it is for the members of this Parliament to make laws in such a way that those points are well and truly covered. 
With regard to the deregistration provisions, quite clearly this is a matter of very real concern, and it is obviously a weapon of last resort. But again the proposed law moves only in the area of ensuring that procedures are speeded up and observed. The law does not endeavour to jackboot the decision-making process of the Arbitration Commission. It does not go to the point of instructing the Commission on how it should make a decision in all the particular circumstances. 
-No, I do not believe it is, and it seems to me that some of the hysteria that has been about this place has been unwarranted. We are talking here strictly about procedures. Although some Opposition senators have spoken of  Sir Richard  Kirby 's comments in the early days when this legislation apparently was not available to him, we note that he commented in a way which would indicate that he thought this legislation might be unconstitutional. But I do not believe that he could have seen the legislation, and I should like to have the opportunity to ask him whether in fact, having seen the Bill, he now thinks the same way. I believe he may have altered his view insofar as there are - 
-No, I have not. I am just saying that I should like the opportunity to discuss it with  Sir Richard  Kirby. I wonder whether in fact he has had that opportunity to re-examine the legislation. As for the recent discussion concerning  Mr Justice  Staples, as this stage I do not want to enter into any of the matters which he raised. But I do believe that the letter does enter into the area of emotional debate. The letter refers to smoke filled rooms and side alley conferences. Comments such as that seem to me to be not relevant to this matter. That is my own view. I do not claim in any way to be an expert in industrial law. I am not even a lawyer. But it seems to me that there is a reasonable view that can be taken that he has overstated his case in this particular letter. 
I do not want to detain the Senate any longer, but I do want to reiterate that I believe the Commission should not ignore the higher duty which I think it owes to the people of Australia. I do not believe it ought to descend to the level of all other quasi-autonomous government organisations- Quangos- or statutory corporations and assume that it has a role and independence for itself which overrides the people's will. If it does this, it does it at its own risk, in which case it would be not only on its own way to destruction but also it would in effect destroy the rights of all of us in Australia, all of us who are individual workers and want to do our jobs and get on with it. The position is, as I have said, that the Commission draws its source of power from the Federal Parliament by the laws that this Parliament makes. It is for this Parliament to hear the will of the people, to express that will in terms of legislation and to require that the overriding interest of the people has paramount regard.  (Quorum formed). 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the critical reports from various sources that there is a continuing rise in acreages planted to vines in all States, but particularly in South Australia? Whilst this is true, is it not a fact that total grape production has declined from 733,000 tonnes in 1975 to 693,000 tonnes in 1978? Does this indicate that the so-called grape surplus of recent years is not due, as is commonly supposed, to indiscriminate and irresponsible vine plantings but is related to other factors, particularly demand in the market place, and is likely to be a function of product price? 
-Is the Attorney-General aware of an article published recently in the newspaper  The National Student  produced by the Australian Union of Students outlining the production process of the hydrogen bomb, which raised considerable controversy in the United States when it was first published? Is it a fact that the publication of this sensitive information is contemplated by section 44 of the Atomic Energy Act or sections of the Crimes Act? Will the Attorney-General investigate the matter with a view to ensuring that the national interest is protected? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that statistics of experience in the United States indicate that six million jobs created in the non-government sector over the last 10 years have been in the small business sector while none of these has been created by the top 1,000 companies? Is he further aware that in Canada the number of jobs in the big company area has actually declined in recent years while small business has created all non-government jobs over that period? Does this support the contention that in times of widespread structural change the acknowledged flexibility of small business is a most significant factor in rapidly generating new jobs when unemployment is high? Will the Government consider improving facilities for delivering finance, whether by loan or equity, to small business to encourage this important trend further? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that selfemployed persons are allowed taxation deductions for payments to approved superannuation funds to provide maximum retirement benefits at a level of about 60 per cent of those which may be deducted by persons in employment and that most frequently that level is about one-third? Has this condition existed since 1968? Is this a major reason for the participation in taxation avoidance schemes by self-employed people? Will the Government consider the redress of this serious discrimination against self-employed small business men in the forthcoming Budget? 
