
 -Mr Speaker, I rise to second the motion so ably moved by my colleague the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  that the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech be agreed to. 
Before speaking to the motion though, I would like to take this opportunity, as did the mover, of extending to you personally,  Mr Speaker,  my sincerest congratulations on your new year knighthood and on your re-election as  Speaker  of this House. As a student of politics, for the past two years I have listened keenly to your contributions as  Speaker.  I fully endorse the remarks made yesterday in this House by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  and others, when I say that I believe you have brought to your office and this place, great dignity, an important sense of propriety and, in what is often an electric and intense environment, fairness and impartiality, and a very welcome sense of humour. I am still a student of politics but, more relevantly, I am a new member of this House. I look forward to serving for many years under your patient guidance,  Mr Speaker. 
At this time may I also convey my congratulations to the newly elected Chairman of Committees and Deputy Speaker. 
Further, I wish to pay tribute to another person who first stood to speak in this building, but in the other place, 35 years ago. That person also had the honour, which I now share, of being involved in the moving and seconding of a motion in respect of the Address-in-Reply. But that person, in being elected to the Commonwealth Parliament, also achieved another distinctionthe distinction of being the first woman member of the Senate. 
The person to whom I refer is, of course, Dame Dorothy Margaret Tangney. To those honourable members in this House who do not know her, or indeed of her, let me state that Dame Dorothy was a distinguished Western Australian senator for 25 years, from 1943 to 1 968.  Her  abiding interests throughout her career were to uphold and maintain the dignity and the importance of the Parliament, to further the people's claims in the area of social welfare and to contribute to the planning and development of Canberra as the nation 's capital. 
Her creation as a Dame of the British Empire on her retirement and the establishment and naming after her in 1974 of the Federal seat of Tangney were fitting marks of recognition of Dame Dorothy's long service to the people of Western Australia and the nation. 
Dame Dorothy is today still reasonably active. I consider myself extremely fortunate in having had the opportunity to call on her and to meet and to talk with the very person after whom my seat in this House is named. 
She is truly a grand old lady of Australian politics. Her portrait hangs in Kings Hall, and she has the rare distinction of having met all of the men who have been Australian Prime Ministers to date. 
I bring from her to this Parliament warm greetings to old colleagues, and I stand ready to return the same. May I say to those honourable members concerned that such greetings may not be before time if they wish to influence her remembrance and record of history for, barring ill health, she fully intends to complete her autobiography. 
In paying tribute to Dame Dorothy I have mentioned my electorate of Tangney. At the outset I again thank my Party in the Tangney electorate for selecting me as its candidate. Further I thank all Party members and supporters, as well as my very close State parliamentary colleagues in the area, for the tireless work and effort that they put into the election campaign to ensure that I could stand in this place today. 
Geographically, Tangney is well known to most honourable members in this House, if for no other reason than that in its brief three-year history it has already been described twice by new members making their maiden speeches. As the third member, I trust that it will be a case of third time lucky. I do not wish, however, to be unduly superstitious, but it may be prudent that I should not follow precedent too closely. 
Suffice it to say, then, Tangney is basically south-east metropolitan Perth. Mainly it is made up of dormitory suburbs, some old and well established, many new and fast-growing, although it has some areas of light industry. 
Demographically though, I believe Tangney represents a microscopic picture of Australian urban society- old people and young families; all types of workers, be they unskilled or manual; professional people; academics; students and migrants. They are all to be found in Tangney. It is a microcosm of urban Australian society. As such people in Tangney experience the same hardships and problems, have the same goals and aspirations, and enjoy the same pleasures and relaxations as do urban dwellers all over Australia. 
I am very proud and honoured to represent Tangney and its people- my people- in this Parliament. I know I have a great responsibility towards them to provide them with full-time grass roots representation and to play my part in this Parliament to ensure that this country is governed in accordance with their wishes and needs, insofar as those objectives are compatible with the wishes and needs of the nation as a whole. Certainly they deserve from me no less. 
It is at this point that I return my attention to the Governor-General's address. I do so with enthusiasm and excitement, and confidence for the future. I believe it to be an address which reiterates and comprehensively expands on policies which the Government has pursued with enormous success over the past two years. 
Past achievements are noted. I refer to those concerned with the economy- inflation sharply reduced, interest rates falling, government spending under control, business confidence and investment reviving, the excessive taxation burden relieved. One can find similar impressive achievements in the area of social welfare: Family allowances, the supporting parent's benefit and the indexation of pensions and benefits. The list is long. 
But the Governor-General 's address is not one which records past achievements. It clearly outlines many objectives and programs for the future. Amongst these are several of direct interest to me. One of them is concerned with continued taxation relief- keeping money in the pockets of those who earn it, giving them the responsibility and the freedom to dispose of it as they wish and choose. 
Another is the further development of the concept of new federalism, giving the States and local government greater decision-making powers and responsibility- putting power where it belongs, closest to the people it most affects. 
Another area of interest to me is the need for wage restraint and the direct link between that and the relief of unemployment. 
Another is the urgent development of our uranium resources and the North West Shelf. 
I am interested also in government-boosted assistance being available to small business all over the country. These are some of the areas of interest to me. Certainly they are all areas of vital importance to the nation. The great temptation is to attempt to speak on all of them. But debates on these topics will follow and opportunities to speak will come again later. 
As I resist temptation then, let my comments foreshadow separate contributions I may be able to make on these areas in the future, given the opportunity to do so in this place. Suffice it now for me to say that in the Governor-General's address the Government boldly faces up to the great problems of the nation. In facing up to them it projects and puts forward policies and objectives which I know will achieve the desired end- the development of an economically and socially healthy and prosperous Australia, rich in opportunity for all its people to live the life they choose, fully and freely. 
I believe that this Government recognises the problems. The Government has the policies to overcome those problems, and those policies enjoy the support of the majority of the people. There will, of course, be debate, discussion and indeed modification, but I believe that with these policies success and solutions are simply a function of application, effort, resolve and time. 
I now wish to address myself to one final topic and one topic only. I believe it to be an issue of the greatest fundamental importance as this country moves from the decade of the 1970s into the 1980s. I believe it is an issue which goes beyond policy, and the mandate that can be found for that policy in election results. That something of which I speak I believe to be found deep in the mood of the nation and the feeling of the people. One senses it in the community, in the air almost. One certainly discovers it from talking to everyday, average Australians the country over. That something I believe is the yearning and the longing of the nation- the silent but overwhelming cry of the people for national leadership. We must recognise that there has been in our society over recent years a crisis of confidence in our political system. The mood of the nation is for stability, security and certainty. I believe the feeling of the people to be for social harmony, political respect, parliamentary peace, electoral normality and national unity. This country needs leadership that is strong, direct and purposeful, yet fair and compassionate; leadership that is morally and politically incorrupt and incorruptible; leadership that recognises and holds up high, above all else, the personal freedom of individual men and women; that puts people first, rejecting any notion of subservience to the State; leadership that recognises personal choice, initiative, enterprise and energy; leadership that withdraws from the nuts and bolts of everyday life decisionmaking and instead provides leadership- just that, leadership- which points the way by example and by deed and action. 
In electing the Fraser Government in 1975 I believe the nation was calling for this kind of leadership. Clearly, the people wanted to put the division, dissension and bitterness of the early 1970s far behind them. In returning the same Fraser Government in 1 977 1 believe further that the people were still desperately crying out for this leadership. One can see the urgency of their desperation reflected in the voting shifts away from the major political parties, the two major potential sources of leadership in this land. Yet I believe that drift is unwarranted. I believe these people can find reason now to put away their disappointment and temporary desperation. For now, over and above matters of specific policy, the Government fully recognises its commitment to the people of this country, the commitment to act as a government for the whole nation, to reach out and embrace the whole country. In giving this commitment I am delighted to see that the Government sees it in terms of a trust to be honoured. In my view it is a trust of enormous responsibility. It is a trust that goes beyond single issues of policy. It is a trust from the very soul of the nation. It is a trust that I believe has been accepted none too soon. With that trust and the leadership necessary to honour it rests the very faith of this nation in its politicians, in the democratic Westminster style of government, in the Constitution and in the essential nature of our present decision-making process. 
Let there be no mistake or misunderstanding of the importance of that trust. If that trust, once accepted, is broken or if the execution of that trust is not up to the national expectation, I shudder to think about which way the mood of the nation will turn. Will it die or disappear dejectedly leaving the way open for the fanatics of the left or the right? Will it again act decisively but this time in the direction of the extreme left or the extreme right, rejecting parliamentary democracy as being corrupt and uselessly ineffectual and impotent? I feel it may be in the direction of the extreme right for the left has already been soundly rejected. But whatever the possibilities, it is in the hands of this Government to ensure the success of and continuing support for the parliamentary democracy and its decision-making process which I so much love and revere. 
Despite my solemn words of remembrance for the importance of the task before the Government and my raising of possible future dire consequences, I have every confidence that this Government can succeed in honouring this trust and honouring it well. It is a Government that for two years has displayed a strong, defined sense of purpose and direction in the area of policy with considerable success which I know will continue. At the same time, it has now recognised an even fundamentally greater task. That task I know is also recognised in this place. Only yesterday I heard honourable members from both sides of the House calling for greater respect for the institution of Parliament. That respect, I believe, can be simply engendered by examples of respectful behaviour, and in that context I thank all honourable members for listening to me in silence. In the same way, I believe that by encouraging reasoned and rational debate in this 
House, by rejecting cheap political point scoring and the cheap jibe, this House as a whole can assist the Government, itself, the democratic processes and the nation. I believe the Government has the policies for success. I know the Government has the ministerial quality on the front bench and the necessary Prime Ministerial stature and integrity. We backbench members, I believe, must also rise to the occasion. With unity behind it I know the Government can go on to further display that leadership which will not only ensure the continuation of this nation's measured and sustained progress but also that leadership which can rekindle in the hearts and minds of the people confidence, national spirit and the deserved respect for our institutionsthree things which are all so vitally necessary for true national greatness. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Development. The Minister will be aware that there has been much discussion in the media recently concerning Australia's energy problems. In the light of that discussion I ask: Can the Minister indicate what the Government is doing in the area of petroleum exploration, having regard to the desirability of Australia's becoming selfsufficient in oil? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the number of Commonwealth Community Youth Support Scheme programs currently operating in Australia. 
How many unemployed youth are presently involved in these programs. 
How much has the scheme cost since its introduction. 
I wish tonight to speak in support of the Community Youth Support scheme. Since the origination of that scheme in October 1976, some 3 1,000 young people have participated in it. The latest figures, which are from February last, show that 7,500 unemployed youth were involved in 250 projects throughout the country. Firstly, from those statistics it is clearly evident that the scheme has been highly successful in involving community groups in the problems of unemployed youth and in attracting that youth freely and voluntarily to take part in programs designed to assist them. Secondly, with respect to these programs, I believe further that on the whole the scheme has also been highly successful. That success can be commonly measured in immediate terms by the numbers of participants who go on to gain permanent employment. Here again statistics can prove the case, because of an encouraging and significant number of such participants, particularly those from those projects who co-operate closely with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Thirdly, the value of the Community Youth Support scheme is equally apparent in other less tangible ways. 
Well-run CYS projects which have attached to them enthusiastic professional project officers importantly provide unemployed young people with stimulation and with sympathetic and understanding adult supervision and guidance to which they readily respond and relate. The scheme brings together unemployed young people. It brings them out of their houses and away from the boredom of the television set and the despair of their bedrooms. They learn and they gain support from the fact that they are not alone, thus increasing their confidence and mutual self-respect. They are afforded the opportunity and benefit of social contact, with all its related benefits. That is something with which ordinarily school or work would provide them. 
The scheme is not a job creation program and was never intended to be so. To press for a youth oriented job creation program is to put another argument, but let not the CYS scheme be wrongly criticised on that ground. For the reasons I have outlined I believe the scheme to be of enormous benefit in its own right and I roundly reject the view that it is a waste of time and money. I know of no other government initiated scheme which has been so successful in assisting so many- 31,000 people- so responsibly. Up to February of this year approximately $3.4m has been spent on the scheme, which represents less than $ 1 20 per participant. 
Thus, in accepting the importance and the value of the scheme, I wish finally to comment on its improvement and continuation. I welcome the Government's move to increase from six to 12 months the maximum period for which a project may be approved. That will ensure greater continuity for project officers and participants alike. That will go a long way towards encouraging those excellent potential project officers who may previously have declined to become involved because they believe that six months' tenure was insufficient. I welcome the recent emphasis placed on the local State committees to maintain closer oversight of projects to ensure that they remain geared to the needs of unemployed young people. I welcome the appointment to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations of a number of skilled field workers who will assist in this task. Such improvements were announced by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in a statement two weeks ago. I do not think the statement was remembered by many honourable members. In the light of the fact that in my electorate one project was only recently reapproved until August and another one is starting shortly, I believe that these improvements are ample evidence to indicate the Government's continuing interest in the scheme. I believe the Community Youth Support scheme to be extremely valuable. While there remains the great human and social need for it, I will never tire of pressing for its effective maintenance, continuation, improvement and extension. 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether a successful negotiation of a nuclear safeguards agreement with Iran has been carried out? 
I have listened very attentively this evening to what has been a very reasoned and reasonable debate. I suspect it is coming to a close and I do not want to prolong the discussion any further. However, I do feel a responsibility to declare where I stand on the clause under consideration, the amendment and the wider issue which is involved, that is, retrospectivity. In doing so I would like to set the context of what I am about to say by agreeing with what was said by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  when he spoke on the nature of principles. Principles are general statements of belief to which behaviour should accord. They are not universal, as is obvious when principles come into conflict and a choice has to be made between them. In that case I think the merits of each case should be applied. On this issue I start from the point of strongly believing in the principle of law that legislation should not be retrospective in its effect although I also agree that the tax burden should be equitably shared by all. However long one can agonise one has to arrive at a decision. In doing so I would like to speak in the same vein as did the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean). 
Whilst I heartily welcome the majority of the provisions in this Bill as part of the Government's overall tax reform program I regret to say that I find it extremely difficult to support that clause which singularly and selectively strikes down so-called Curran type schemes retrospectively to last August. The clause in question is retrospective and I can find no comfort in the argument that it is not retrospective. Clearly people have ordered their affairs in accordance with and as allowed for by the law and this legislation will alter that situation. Not only is it retrospective but I believe it to be adversely retrospective. Certainly there is no legal penalty to be applied but people will lose their joining fee and if we find little sympathy with that position, what about those who have made irreversible commitments on the basis of their affairs being so ordered? Further, I find great difficulty in accepting that there was adequate forewarning of this retrospective clause. With the passing of time and the change of political parties in government, especially in view of the clear differences which distinguish our Government from our socialist predecessors, I find it reasonable for taxpayers to assume that we were not going to act in accordance with the December 1 974 announcement by the then Treasurer Crean. Equally, I do not believe that the statement made in the last Budget was adequate clear notice particularly of a matter which concerns something so vitally important as a principle of law. 
In this respect I would reiterate the comments made earlier by some speakers that the real issue is that successive governments have been tardy in their moves to block outrageous, blatant tax avoidance schemes to the point where a considerable amount of revenue has been lost to the public purse. Let us be quite clear as to those who have been taking advantage of this scheme. Much deserved comment and condemnation has been heaped and poured upon those unscrupulous people in the legal and accounting professions who have discovered such loopholes and have outrageously made use of them, but the practice had got to the point where it was not the wealthy few who were using such schemes but also the small fry who were being taken by such operators- good honest genuine citizens who simply fell for the line that it was a legitimate tax avoidance scheme. If they did not fall for that line they were told that they were fools for not getting involved when everybody else was getting involved. Clearly in the face of this situation there is a demand for firm resolution on the part of the present Government and future governments that this will not happen again. I am delighted that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has made on behalf of this Government such a commitment that other immoral tax avoidance schemes once they are recognised will immediately be stopped and blocked from the date of the announcement of such schemes. 
That statement makes clear the Government's position for the future. The Treasurer is to be applauded for this action because it is the lack of government action which has allowed the other principle and practice of tax equity to be overturned. However, I do not believe that a past wrong on the part of governments should be rectified by imposing a greater wrong on those individuals who, after all, were doing nothing illegal and acting on a principle of law thereby effecting a wrong on all the people. I do not believe that there is sufficient justification in this situation for the overturning of such a fundamental general principle that laws should not be made selectively retrospective in the absence of any clear and definite statements that they will be so made. 
I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this cognate debate on the estate and gift duty Bills. The presence of these Bills before the House represents the unequivocal honouring by this Government of a specific election promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during the last election campaign. The effects will be widely welcomed by the Australian community. On 2 1 November last year in his policy speech the Prime Minister said: 
The Government will abolish forthwith estate and gift duties on possessions passing between spouses and between parents and their children . . . 
This will be the first step in a program for the abolition of all estate and gift duties within the life of the next Parliament. 
That means within the life of this Parliament. These Bills give effect to that promise. Because the debate has been adjourned on several occasions I think it is worth reminding the House what this effect will be. With the passing of these Bills, no estate duty will be payable by the estate of a person dying on or after 2 1 November last, in respect of property passing to the surviving spouse, child, grandchild, parent or grandparent of the deceased person. No gift duty will be payable on property given by a person on or after that date to relatives within those specific classes. 
It is important to note that by including grandparents and grandchildren the actual provisions of the Bill exceed the terms of the election promise. That these classes of relationship have been included in the exemptions- I have great pleasure in informing the House of this- testifies to the importance and value of the back bench in assisting the Government in its deliberations. Much is said about the ineffectual nature of the back bench and private members. Yet this example gives lie to that interpretation. The back bench pointed out the serious anomalies which would exist if grandparents and grandchildren were not included. Full credit goes to the Government for acting so promptly and sensibly. In raising this point I pay a special tribute to the Government Members Taxation Sub-committee which was foremost in pointing out these anomalies. 
Beyond the exemptions to date, the legislation also points the way to the future. Estate duty is to be abolished in relation to all property in the estates of persons who die on or after 1 July 1979. Similarly, gift duty will not apply in respect of any gifts of property made on or after that date. These Bills achieve what has been an important objective of the Government parties for many years. The previous Fraser Liberal-National Country Party Government considerably relaxed estate duty liabilities. Now they are largely abolished. They will soon be totally abolished. This move can be seen as part of a leading move throughout the country in the same direction by all States in respect of State estate and gift duty legislation. In my own State of Western Australia, since 1 July last year no duty has been payable on that part of the estate which goes to the surviving spouse. This has been the case in New South Wales since December 1976. It has been the case in South Australia since July 1976 and in Tasmania since November 1977. In Victoria it has been the case since October 1976 and in that State from 1 January this year this exemption has been extended to include that part of the estate which passes to children of the deceased. In Queensland, of course, all death duties and gift taxes were completely abolished from 1 January 1977. 
Australia's complicated estate and gift duty system is slowly being wound up in the Federal sphere and in all the States as I have exampled. I believe that this move is occurring with almost universal satisfaction and approval on the part of Australian taxpayers. Yet there is one group not in line with this progress. It is curiously out of step again- perhaps even still- with what the people want and with the demands of justice and fairness. Of course, I refer to the Federal Australian Labor Party Opposition which proposes that these Bills be withdrawn and estate duty and gift tax be therefore continued. Central to the Opposition thinking is that such a tax, or a similar tax, is essential because it is supposedly a tax on the rich. Perhaps the Opposition would like to go further and outlaw and abolish inheritance altogether. Again, I believe that the Opposition's blind ideological contempt for and hatred of individual economic and financial success leads it to call for that success to be ground down and under and taxed into subservience. The Marxist blinkers have not let Opposition members see that far from affecting the wealthy few, these taxes have cruelly affected many middle income earners. It is on their behalf that I speak this afternoon. 
It is not good enough, as the Opposition has done, to cite only the numbers of estates involved for the flow-on figure is much bigger than that. Not only is there a financial burden on a family but, as many in the community will know to their cost, the unexpected death of a small businessman can often mean that the business is severely disrupted. Sometimes it has to be sold and consequently the jobs of people in that business are put into jeopardy. The disruptive effects of death duties on family farms are also equally deplorable. Now it will no longer be necessary to sell off the property or to dispose of a business just to pay death duties. In the general family situation, that deprivation once caused by the loss of a breadwinner and heightened by the imposition of death duties on assets left for the support of children is now gone forever- at least while the Australian Labor Party Opposition remains where it is. 
I should like to take up a number of points raised by the previous speaker and remind the House that the size of an estate has nothing to do with one's capacity to pay. I refer to the recommendations of the Asprey Committee which stated that what was once an administrative advantage from the standpoint of taxation authorities has represented an administrative burden for the personal representatives of the deceased, holding up distribution of estates and creating more hardships and deprivations than were deserved. In the city and in rural areas alike there are few greater humanitarian or social measures which could be taken on behalf of that middle bracket of which I speak. To have the ALP knocking the measures is ridiculous. I have argued that the Federal Government move, despite Opposition ignorance of the problem and the hardships it has caused, will be of great relief to many Australians. 
It is left for me to say that practical facts aside I totally reject the ALP Marxist derived ideological stance against inheritance with respect to that middle income bracket. At the root of the opposition of honourable members opposite is their failure to appreciate the importance of the family in society. Inheritance is nothing more than the passing down from parents to children of the rewards of their own hard work and endeavours in the desire to provide for them as best they can. 
European migrants in our society have this strong motivation and we would do well to encourage it rather than tax it out of existence. Yet in this question lies the whole problem with the Labor Opposition thinking on taxation. By contrast, this Government is foremost in ensuring the equity of the tax system in the context of continually reducing the tax burden on all citizens. The Opposition, however, through its policies destroyed incentive- and would again. It has ignored the equity and fairness in being able to retain and pass on what one works hard for. It sees equity as reducing everyone to a base level, all subservient to a massive, inefficient, money gorging welfare bureaucracy. 
The Opposition has raised alarm that Australia's tax system is moving away from that of other Western countries. For example, this Government has already introduced full tax indexation to protect people from higher taxation through inflation. We have cut personal income tax for all taxpayers from 1 February this year and introduced a new three-tiered flat rate taxation system under which about 90 per cent of the taxpayers now pay only the standard marginal rate of 32c in the dollar. We have protected pensions from inflation by indexing them to ensure automatic increases every six months and we have greatly increased family allowance payments. On the other side of the coin, the Government has moved against contrived, artificial, immoral and outrageous tax avoidance schemes. Added to this list now can be the repeal of estate and gift duties, iniquitous and unfair taxes on the dead causing numerous cases of hardship and distress to those families who are left. If these moves in the tax area set us away from tax systems of other countries, in my view long may it be so and increase to be so. 
When will the Opposition learn that progress as equated with socialism has long been discredited? If Australia is alone in its tax policies it is the case then that this country alone is moving towards the advancement of the individual citizen. That, in my view, is real progress. We are committed to lower taxation, putting more money back in the pockets of the mass of individual hard working people while at the same time recognising a government and community responsibility to provide for those less able to look after themselves. We are committed to a reduction of gross, bureaucratic elephantitis and to creating an environment in which free individual citizens can run their own lives for the benefit of themselves and their families in accordance with the good of the general community. The Labor Party, I believe, is still a party of high taxation. It still has not learned from its disastrous years in government. Individual freedom still means very little to it. Against this background I oppose the Opposition's proposed amendment. There may indeed be a case for the introduction of a future measure the purpose of which would be to levy tax on large amounts of unearned capital held by the genuinely wealthy few, thereby recirculating it. However, on this measure, I join with the majority of the nation in applauding the abolition of estate and gift duty taxes. 
-I want to raise a matter tonight which has been drawn to my attention on several occasions by some of my constituents. It is not necessary for me to relate to the House the details of each individual case but it is certainly important for me to draw attention to the common problem. It certainly caught people in my electorate and no doubt it has been commonly experienced throughout the country. The problem involves workers who through injury are entitled to and receive workers compensation payments under various State workers compensation Acts while they are off work. An injured worker receiving such payments is also entitled to apply for social security sickness benefit but commonly there is no entitlement or only partial entitlement to receive such benefitas distinct from applying for it- because the rate of workers compensation payment is too high. 
I have no objection to compensation payments being taken into account when determining sickness benefit entitlement, and with up to 100 per cent workers compensation, injured employees are financially well provided for. However, the point I wish to make is that workers compensation payments are also taken into account when determining entitlement to and rate of sicknes benefit after workers have opted for, as they are entitled to do, a lump sum settlement. Thus we have the case many times multiplied of an injured worker with no short-term prospect of returning to work opting for a lump sum workers compensation payment in redemption of all future workers compensation entitlements. A lump sum is commonly a large amount, and the problem arises when the injured beneficiary uses the received cash to meet other commitments quite innocently- for example, in paying off his car or his house. Consequently, when this lump sum is exhausted or at least significantly reduced and the innocent worker subsequently applies for sickness benefit he finds out that he is not entitled to it or at least to only a portion of it. As I have mentioned, this is because the Department of Social Security still takes into account the full amount of his lump sum payment, averaging it out as if it were still being paid in weekly or fortnightly instalments. His entitlement to receive sickness benefit may thus be many years away. 
Unemployment benefits may be unavailable to the worker if he is unfit for work, and invalid pension entitlements will not be available if he is less than 85 per cent incapacitated. The injured worker may thus be destitute because he has innocently exhausted his lump sum reserves. I repeat that I do not raise this issue to argue against the policy of the Department of Social Security. However, I urge all involved in the process whereby an injured off-work employee converts his workers compensation entitlement to a lump sum- I urge union representatives, employers and State insurance office officials- to inform the worker of the facts. They all have a responsibility to explain the situation fully to such people. In many cases this is not being done, and before he is in a position to ask the right questions, the hapless injured worker may have unwittingly put himself into a destitute position. With a full explanation of the facts the resulting hardships may well be avoided. 
The second point I raise is that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and I are extremely interested in the recent overseas visit by the Minister for Special Trade Representations and Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Garland)  and his inspection of war graves. On behalf of the honourable member for St George, I ask the Minister to report to the House on this matter for the benefit of all ex-servicemens organisations. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer and I refer to recent reports that the Federal Government is planning to increase tax paid on superannuation and long service entitlements after retirement from 5 per cent to 25 per cent. Can the Treasurer say whether such reports are true or false? 
Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General advise the House how far the Government has progressed towards effecting a review of the Family Law Act and the operations of the Family Court? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
What were the respective purchase prices of the following pastoral stations purchased by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of various Aboriginal communities: (a) Kildurk (b) Pippingarra, (c) Mount Welcome and (d) Eudamullah 
What were the subsequent respective capital ingoings. 
What are the current respective running costs of the stations. 
What were the respective numbers of sheep shorn or stock mustered immediately prior to the purchase of these stations by the Government. 
What are the current respective numbers of sheep shorn or stock being mustered on these stations. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. He has often said that Australia's trading performance will depend on its inflation rate relative to the inflation rates of its trading partners. Has he any recent information that he can relate to the House regarding the inflation rate in Australia compared with the rates of its trading partners? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the tenders called by his Department for the supply of three customs surveillance aircraft. Will the Minister comment on reports that the specifications of the tender virtually exclude consideration of the Australian Nomad aircraft? If these reports are correct, why has it apparently been decided, before any consideration of the various tender proposals, that the Nomad is unsuitable for this type of surveillance work? 
-An international hockey stadium is currently under construction within the grounds of the Western Australian Institute of Technology in Perth. The project, when completed, will be Australia's first international standard hockey stadium. Aside from all the usual facilities, the important point is that the central playing area will feature an allweather artificial turf surface. A natural turf surface can only be used for approximately three hours a week before it begins to deteriorate badly. However, the all-weather astroturf surface, as it is commonly known, can be continuously used without losing its properties of true roll and consistent bounce. This type of expensive synthetic playing surface is now a standard requirement for all international hockey matches. Similar stadiums have already been built in London, Amsterdam, Cologne and Montreal. Plans are going ahead for grounds of the same standard in other countries such as New Zealand, India, Pakistan and the Soviet Union. 
To date the projected cost of the complex is approximately $lm. The Western Australian men's and women's hockey associations have combined their resources and have embarked on a giant public fund raising campaign with a target of $250,000. To its credit the Western Australian Government has made a commitment of $250,000. Considerable unsuccessful representations have been made to the Commonwealth Government for the balance of $500,000. It is on that point that I would like to concentrate in the few mintues remaining to me. The national sports program developed by the standing committee on recreation and accepted by the council of recreation Ministers recommended the provision of one venue of international standard for each sport somewhere in Australia. I believe that this is an extremely sensible move. Australia has limited resources to spend on sports facilities. This program is designed to ensure that our potential international competitors have at least one international standard venue within the country for their sport. 
In line with this program a hockey venue is being built in Perth. However, let me make the fundamental point that the facility is not a facility just for Western Australians; it is to be a national facility sited in Perth. Australia's men's and women's hockey teams will use it extensively in the lead-up to their preparations for the 1980 Olympics and, of course, beyond that time. For the first time, women's hockey will be an Olympic sport. The Australian team- already one of the strongest in the world- has excellent medal prospects. The men have already set the pace with silver medals in the Mexico City and Montreal Olympics. However, I think the point to be made here is that in the past to attain this standard our athletes have had to travel extensively overseas at great cost in order to gain the necessary experience of playing and developing their games on artificial turf, a feature which previously gave other international teams a distinct advantage. Now, with the construction of this national facility in Perth, Australia will truly be on equal terms in relation to hockey. This is a national facility for the benefit of all Australian hockey players and, through them, Australia's international sporting prestige. Seen in this light I believe that this facility is firmly deserving of support from the national Government. 
All supporters of this project readily appreciate the financial constraints which surrounded the framing of this year's Budget. They all readily understand why the Government has found it impossible to date to vote funds for this project this time around. However, what is needed to ensure the successful completion of this project is not so much cash down now but a firm commitment by the Federal Government to support financially this international hockey facility in the next financial year. I have been talking about an international standard hockey facility supported by the Standing Committee on Recreation and the Council of Recreation Ministers. This will be of benefit to all Australians and to Australian sport generally. I ask the Government to give this request for a firm commitment to future financial support for this sporting facility urgent and most serious consideration. 
I would like to raise tonight a matter which in recent days has been of concern- in my view, rightly so- to both chambers of this Parliament and to both sides of those chambers. It is a matter which involves the Australian Nomad aircraft and its potential role in the Australian civil coastal surveillance program. To put the matter into context let me say briefly, that on 9 July the Minister for 
Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made a statement about the Australian civil coastal surveillance program. The first paragraph of that statement reads: 
The Government has considered a detailed report on Australia's civil coastal surveillance needs, prepared by a specially-convened Committee of Permanent Heads, and has decided on a new program to upgrade existing coastal surveillance and enforcement capabilities. 
The statement and the attached document go on to list a whole range of excellent measures which will improve Australia's civil coastal surveillance. The matter on which I want to concentrate tonight is the recommendation which calls for the use of three specialised, radar equipped aircraft to be chartered for special Customs response. Arising out of the recommendations, tenders were called on 19 August for the supply of three twin-engined Customs surveillance aircraft for a contract period of two years. Tenders closed on 19 September. One of those specifications on which I would like to concentrate further said that the aircraft should have an airspeed capability of 220 knots. The real nub of my speech tonight is that this rules out a priori the Nomad aircraft which has an airspeed capability of 160 knots. That led to Press speculation in recent weeks- last week especially- that the Nomad was being specifically ruled out. I raised this matter in this House the other day, other people raised it in this House and also it was raised in the Senate. I refer to the Minister's answer. He said: 
Tenders will be drawn in such a way as to allow all aircraft manufacturers to put in a bid for the operation. There is absolutely no truth in the story that the Nomad aircraft is being specifically or in any other way excluded from the operations. 
Of course, I accept that, but the point I make is that when the tender specifications were drawn up- I understand that they were drawn up by the Bureau of Customs and the Department of Transport- it must have been known that that particular specification would rule out the Nomad before it even got to first base. What concerns me is that proposals based on the Nomad aircraft might not have been submitted because of that one point- the airspeed- and what concerns me even more now is that tenders based on the Nomad aircraft, when submitted, will be chucked out of the window immediately because they will not be looked at beyond the airspeed. 
Let us look at the airspeed. It has been put to me that the aircraft are needed not exclusively for surveillance but for pursuit purposes. If that is the case we are talking about a civil surveillance program which is not quite the one that I understand. These aircraft are going to be on charter to the Government and they are going to be piloted by civil pilots. Are we going to have the case of aircraft careering over Australia's northern skies and attempting in some Biggies-like operation to force down some drug smugglers? If that is the type of scheme that is being envisaged, it is not what I thought it was. I thought that we were going to have surveillance and reporting to the appropriate authorities- the Army perhaps and certainly the Navy and the Air Force. I thought that is the sort of scheme it was going to be and if it is not going to be that sort of scheme perhaps we should have given it back to the armed Services in the first place. 
The Nomad is being used extensively overseas. It has a whole range and list of suitable qualifications to be used in this work. As I am running out of time, I am simply left with the opportunity of calling on the three Ministers involved- the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)-  to get together and make every effort to ensure that the Nomad aircraft can be con.sidered for this type of operation. If we do not support Australia's own aircraft in Australia what sort of chance have we to sell it overseas? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the proposal put forward by the Minister when he was recently overseas, and initiated by Australia to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, calling for international consultation on the Indo-Chinese refugee problem. Is the Minister able to indicate to the House what success Australia is having in its efforts to internationalise the Indo-Chinese refugee issue and obtain from other governments outside the regionapart from France, Canada and the United States of America- a commitment that they also will assist in alleviating the refugee problem by accepting Indo-Chinese refugees for permanent settlement? 
Is the Treasurer aware that concern is still being engendered in the Australian business community by private statements of some Australian Taxation Office officials that the future introduction of a retail turnover or similar tax is in fact a foregone conclusion? Do such statements have official backing and support? Is the Treasurer able to comment on this situation in particular, and the Australian Taxation Office inquiry into indirect taxation in general? 
I rise this afternoon to grieve for the Australian Labor Party. After that last speech I have been provided with many grounds on which to grieve. One could go on talking for perhaps a week. One matter in particular on which I wish to concentrate today stems from a matter of public importance that was raised in this House a fortnight ago by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and which was supported by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  which read: 
The Government's mismanagement and inability to develop relations and trade with ASEAN. 
The matter of public importance was not advanced seriously; it was advanced half-heartedly and it was certainly argued unconvincingly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  on this side of the House certainly explained Australia's excellent and developing relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations. To give that matter of public importance its due, it did highlight and stress the importance of ASEAN to Australia with respect to our national interests, political, economic and strategic. I set those important points against the background of an advertisement which appeared in the  National Times  only three days earlier, on 2 1 October. It was an advertisement which had been lodged by two groups- the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament, based in Melbourne, and the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament, based in Sydney. The banner of the advertisement read 'No Military Ties with ASEAN Nations'. It went on to give a series of explanatory statements and then to list the names of a number of people who supported the advertisement and the petition about which it was written. The advertisement favours the reducing of Australia's military links and ties with non-communist nations in South East Asia. But it does more than that; it is a general attack on the ASEAN nations themselves. The explanatory statement reads: 
Almost all ASEAN regimes are oppressive, and undemocratic in character, while most of them are repressive military dictatorships. 
I believe that this advertisement simply does not take into account the moral and political realities of the world in which we live. The point I really want to make is that apart from this advertisement being lodged just three days before the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition rose in this House and called for closer links with ASEAN nations, it was signed- incredibly- by 18 members of the federal branch of the Australian Labor Party. I will read their names from the list. They are Gordon Bryant, Moss Cass,  Senator Cavanagh,  Ruth Coleman, Doug Everingham, Ken Fry,  Senator Georges, Senator Gietzelt,  Clyde Holding, Brian Howe, Ted Innes, Cyril Primmer,  Senator Melzer,  Tom Uren, and  Senator Mcintosh.  Honourable members should just look at the list. But that is not all. The House should realise that that is not all. A most cursory examination of the two groups that funded that advertisement and lodged it shows very clearly that they are closely allied to and linked with the World Peace Council. One only has to look at the annual report of the CICD to realise that. The World Peace Council since it was formed in 1948 has consistently followed the foreign policy line  of the Soviet  Union.  We do not have to look any further than the secretary-general of that organisation, Romesh Chandra, who said in a Prague journal in 1973: 
Everywhere the Communists and Workers' Parties are in the forefront of the struggle for peace. 
He also said:   the most important changes in recent years can be linked to the Peace Program adopted at the 24th CPSU Congress. 
In a Soviet weekly, the  New Times,  he was reported as saying this: 
The Soviet Union invariably supports the peace movement. 
He further said- wait for it: 
The World Peace Council, in its turn, positively reacts to all Soviet initiatives in international affairs. 
The World Peace Council can proudly list its achievements as failure to protest about the Berlin Wall, failure to protest about the invasion of Hungary and Czechoslovakia and its rather dubious protest about nuclear testing, forgetting altogether that the Soviet Union is perhaps the greatest nuclear tester of all. A clearer expose of the World Peace Council was given by Denis Warner in 1975 when he said: 
For the past 26 years, when it was formed under instruction from the Cominform, the World Peace Council has been amongst the most active Russian Communist fronts. 
The present role of its Australian offshoot is to campaign for non-alignment . . . 
I want honourable members to wait for this statement: 
The World Peace Council, as its name suggests, claims, of course, to be serving peace. What is meant is a certain kind of peace- the condition that will exist at some future time when the world will be united under Communist rule and war will be impossible. 
The CICD and the AICD, linked with the World Peace Council, stand indicted under the same charge. They are communist fronts and they put forward their advertisements with positive ALP support. If one wants any more evidence one has only to look further at the list and see some of the names that appear on it. Incredibly, the ALP members share the same platform with 22 members of the various communist parties in Australia. I seek leave to have this list incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Let us have a look at the list. It names Eric Aarons, CPA; John Baker, CPA; Laurie Carmichael, CPA; Denis Freney, CPA; John Halfpenny, CPA; Derek Roebuck, CPA; and Bernie Taft, Victorian Secretary, CPA; all of whom are members of the various communist parties within Australia which are actively supported by the ALP. But the advertisement states: 
The above names are a representative sample of those Australians who have contributed to the cost of this advertisement. 
Space limitation precludes publication of a full list. 
Who else was on the list but could not get a guernsey because there were not enough pages? That is the question to be asked. The best thing that can be said for those ALP members is that they did not know what they were signing. At best they are unwitting dupes and supporters of Soviet foreign policy. At worst they may be communist activists by another name, committed to the expansion of Soviet influence and hegemony. On the worst interpretation, members of the ALP stand exposed. On the worst interpretation, they are wolves in sheep's clothing. Let us examine whether there is some truth in this possibility. One has to look only at the words of Romesh Chandra, writing in 1975 when he came to Australia, who said that of the then Labor Government, half the members of the Labor Cabinet were members of the World Peace Council. Those are the words of the secretarygeneral of that organisation. What further proof do we need? 
The Labor Party just has to come clean on this issue. There is an enormous division, an enormous split in the Labor Party on the subject of its foreign policy. It has to work out where it is going. It is a threat to our regional stability and a threat to our relations with the ASEAN nations. I do not think it could be put any better than it was by Jeffry Babb, a foreign policy correspondent for the  Sunday Times,  who wrote: 
The difference in attitudes shown by the speeches made in favour of ASEAN by the parliamentary leaders of the Labor Party, and the attack made on ASEAN by the ALP parliamentarians and associated left-wingers, communists, trade unionists, academics, artists and writers shows a difference in opinion quite as deep as the issue of anti-communism that split the ALP in 1955. 
That is why I grieve for the Labor Party. The article continues: 
The same issues- should we align ourselves with the Western world: should we support collectivism or freedom; should be take an active part in the international community or shut ourselves off as a nation unto ourselves- are there. 
That same article concludes, very correctly and very properly, by quoting the words of Malcolm 
Booker, a one-time friend and fellow traveller of the ALP, when he said: 
The Labor Party does not deserve to be taken seriously as the alternative government while it refuses to come to terms with the problems of Australian security- the essential requirement for which is co-operation with our neighbours. 
Moral indignation is no substitute for policy, especially when uttered by people' who are not entitled to it. 
The ALP is divided on this issue. Some of its members stand exposed as wolves in sheep's clothing. The Australian public has a right to have them come clean, to have them explain to the public exactly where they stand with respect to our friendly relations with our South East Asian neighbours. 
I draw the attention of the House tonight to what I consider to be an unfair anomaly relating to the payment of invalid pensions on the one hand to people who are blind compared with the payment of invalid pensions on the other hand to people who are incapacitated in some other way. I believe the situation to be based on an unwarranted distinction between blind people and people who are incapacitated in another way. 
As all honourable members will know, an invalid pension is paid to eligible people who are either permanently blind or unable to work because they are permanently incapacitated. The anomaly is that when the pension is paid in respect of blindness is it free of an income test, but when it is paid in respect of incapacity to work for any other reason it is subject to an income test. Thus, a blind solicitor could be earning a commonly accepted salary for that position and also drawing an income test free invalid pension while the fellow who has been severely injured in a car accident and who is a quadraplegic- flat on his back- draws only a partial pension because his wife works. I do not want to be misunderstood on this point. No one would wish to argue against blindness. But it must be readily appreciated that blindness of itself does not constitute an incapacity to work. Many thousands of blind people are working in Australia today. On the other hand, I want to contrast that with the many thousands of generally incapacitated individuals who can never again hope to work in the Australian work force. Both groups are recipients of an invalid pension, yet one group receives it free of an income test while the other receives it subject to an income test I believe that honourable members will appreciate that the absurdity of this patently unfair situation is obvious and, in my view, deserving of immediate attention and resolution. 
In calling for action I think that it would perhaps help if I were to try to explain how the anomaly came about. Blindness has always been a readily identifiable disability and one that has always elicited a great deal of public and personal sympathy, and rightly so. All honourable members can appreciate that. In the past governments have reflected this public feeling and blind pensioners have always been regarded as forming a special class. Blind people received pensions as far back as 1912. In 1954 the pension was made free of an income test. I think that two significant things have happened since that time. Firstly blind people now are rightly recognised as being able to contribute to the work force. We have got away from the workshop mentality that the only thing they were supposedly fit for was basket weaving. I congratulate the organisations for the blind which have worked to overcome that prejudice. Secondly, the number of invalids who are permanently incapacitated regrettably is increasing by thousands every year as a result of the carnage on Australian roads today. I believe that we need to bring the two situations into line. Of course, in trying to rectify the problem I do not want to advocate that we should take away something that is already being received by some people. Therefore, I suggest that all invalid pensions should be made free of an income test but that they be made subject to income tax. On the one hand, the benefit will be paid in recognition of a physical condition in an attempt to bring about horizontal equity. On the other, it will be made subject to income tax and be included as part of the taxable income in recognition of the fact that many recipients can and do work. This is distinct from the Budget initiative which was discarded- and rightly so in my view because it attempted to tax pensions which were subject to an income test in the first place. I am not suggesting that. I have written about this matter to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on several occasions and in her last reply to me she advised that my views had been forwarded to the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped, which was considering the position in toto. I call on all honourable members to recognise this anomaly and to write to the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped so that it can be resolved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) For which organisations and funds are monetary gifts tax deductible. 
On what criteria are these organisations and funds selected. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the fact that next year Western Australia celebrates its sesquicentenary, 1979 of course being the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Swan River colony in 1829. I ask the Prime Minister whether he can inform the House in what way the Commonwealth intends to acknowledge this significant event. More directly, will the Commonwealth give Western Australia a one hundred and fiftieth birthday present and, if so, what will it be? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) How many boats have arrived at Australian ports carrying Indo-Chinese refugees since 1974. 
How many of these boats (a) have been returned to Indo-Chinese pons, (b) have been burnt and scuttled, (c) have been sold either within Australia or overseas and (d) remain anchored in Australian waters. 
If boats have been sold, who were the purchasers. 
If boats remain anchored in Australia (a) where are they anchored, (b) who has authority over them and, (c) what are the plans for them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) What is the total number of child-care facilities within Australia for which the Department of Social Security has financial responsibility. 
) What is the cost to the Department of these facilities. 
3 ) How many children are catered for by these facilities. 
How many children (a) come from single parent families and (b) are from 2 parent families where both husband and wife work. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) What surveys were conducted, and what were the results, before the decision was made by Telecom to install the new exchange equipment ARE II and AXE. 
What is the estimated cost to Telecom of the purchase and installation of this new equipment. 
What is the potential employment reduction within Telecom due to the use of this new equipment. 
What new or improved services will ARE II and AXE exchange equipment provide to Telecom subscribers. 
What are the expected charges for these new services. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the Minister's speech to the Automotive Chamber of Commerce in Sydney on 30 October last year when he announced that the Federal Government was considering a four-point package of measures in an effort to resolve the distribution and marketing problems confronting the petroleum marketing industry. Can the Minister indicate what views and submissions the Government has received from the State governments and all sections of the petroleum industry since the proposals were announced? Secondly, can he say when the Government will be in a position to make a decision on the proposal? 
I would like to say a few words tonight about Australia's defence preparedness and, more specifically, about public attitudes towards that preparedness. In recent years the general thinking in this country on Australia's defence has been that this nation would face no military threat for at least a decade. This feeling was first popularised by the Whitlam Labor Government, born out of its idealistic and simplistic world view. It was a world view which held that as more of the world turned socialist it would become a better place in which to live. It cheerfully assumed that growing anarchy and violence were but birth pains of this new world socialist order in which Australia would play its rightful part. Defence complacency existed after the demise of that Government but now, against the background of the current world situation, which was correctly outlined this afternoon by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  I contend that that complacency must be eradicated and the rationale that gave rise to it completely overturned, discredited and dismissed. 
In my view, it is deficient to talk only of identifiable threats. The Middle East, Iran, Africa, Indo-China and the potential for a Sino-Soviet clash collectively serve to make the fundamental point that the world is a threatening environment. In that environment situations change and events happen so rapidly that what were clear horizons one day carry rolling storm clouds the next. It is in that environment that we must be prepared. Let me try to explain it in domestic terms. We cannot identify the car thief who is likely to rob us of our vehicle, but does that mean that we leave our car unlocked with the keys in it? Of course we do not. We cannot identify the housebreaker who is likely to climb in and take our jewellery. Does that mean that we leave our valuables inside with the windows of the house open? Of course we do not. So, it must be the same with our nation. We live in a threatening environment. It is in that context that we must plan and provide for Australia's defence. In the absence of identifiable threats, we must take continuing precautions against possible or probable threats. 
If that argument is accepted there at present exists a vital and continuing need for increased defence expenditure in this country. I believe that the Government has recognised the threatening nature of the world environment. Some increase in defence expenditure has recently been announced. But importantly, there needs to be a public realisation in the Australian community at large, concurrent with that increased expenditures, of the seriousness of the global situation and the need for increased defence expenditure. 
Responsible democratic governments respond to pressure, and where that pressure arises out of general feeling rightly so. In recent years the greatest pressure has been for increased expenditure in the areas of health, welfare and education, for example. At the same time there have been calls for lower taxation. In terms of the limited budgetary cake, defence expenditure has fallen as a percentage of the total budgetary outlay. I submit that increased income, social service benefits and the like, are meaningless if the security of the nation is in doubt, at risk or at worse in jeopardy. It must be realised that national security is the foundation on which all other securities rest. 
The Australian community must become aware of this fundamental fact. It must embark on a course to make defence an issue in this country, to improve our defences and to be able to live with some measure of security in a threatening world environment. I call on the Government to show leadership in that direction. 
-I welcome the opportunity to follow the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in this debate. We are both parliamentary delegates to the Electronics Industry Advisory Council. The honourable member carries the Opposition's responsibilities in the field of industry and commerce. As a young player in this parliamentary scene I have welcomed the opportunities to listen to the reasoned bipartisan approach that the honourable member takes on that council. I want to assure him that he has raised some very important points relating to this Bill this afternoon.  His  contribution was good and sound before he drifted off into an unreasoned attack on the Government's activities and achievements in the area of industrial research and development. Presumptuously, perhaps, I want to address myself also to some of those points and hopefully, together, we may be able to clear the air so far as those points are concerned. 
I welcome the Patents Amendment Bill and I want to identify myself with its aims. Firstly, it is proposed to bring into operation an optional form of patent protection that has been devised specifically to assist small Australian industries and businesses and in doing so to encourage the inventive activity of Australians in fields that are particularly suited to commercial exploitation by small Australian enterprises. I see the legislation as part of a process by this Government to upgrade Australia's industrial property laws through a process of reform which the Government believes- I certainly share that belief- will make those laws more responsive to the economic needs of the nation. 
I think as legislation comes forward in this place we should always ask ourselves whether it is necessary. I believe this legislation is necessary for it aims to provide what has been lacking in the past, namely, access by inventors and entrepreneurs to quick, easily obtainable and inexpensive patent protection. From my contacts in industry and commerce, from patent attorneys through to small business and larger concerns, this BUI is a welcome initiative. 
The major features of the Bill- the last  speaker  touched on some of them- include the availability of the petty patent as an optional form of protection to the grant of a patent as already provided for under the present Patents Act. A petty patent will have a six-year term and it is to be contrasted with the longer patent, now to be known as the standard patent, which has a term of 16 years. The scope of protection for an invention to qualify as a petty patent is to be directed to those inventions with a single claim, that is, inventions which have only one inventive characteristic and which can be applied usually in respect of only one product. 
It is envisaged that the nature of the invention which will be covered by a petty patent will be those in the mechanical and electrical fields with some chemical type of inventions. It is expected that it will be relatively easy to have quick examination of such applications for petty patents, with the result that a petty patent will issue well within a year of lodgment. This will enable a manufacturer or an inventor to market or license his petty patent that much more expeditiously and hopefully with a higher degree of confidence at that time than he would if he had lodged an application for a standard patent. It is important to realise that now it can take up to five years for letters patent for a standard patent to be granted. It is also important to note that it is an optional system and that one can convert from a petty patent to a standard patent and vice versa. 
There is one further welcome initiative from the Western Australian point of view that I want to mention specifically and that is the provision for the establishment of sub-offices of the Patents Office in each State. In future the documentation that needs to be lodged with the Patents Office in Canberra can be lodged in the various State offices. I think this is a welcome move. I want now to deal more closely with a major feature of the Bill, one which was raised by the honourable member for Adelaide. I reiterate that I appreciate the aims of the Bill and I welcome them, but I think the proof of whether they can actually be achieved will be found in practice. I raise this note of caution because I am concerned about a central point of the proposed legislation. That central point is that the existing standard of inventiveness required for an invention to be patentable has not been changed, whether for a standard patent or a petty patent. However, as I mentioned earlier, to give effect to the aims of the Bill, to give quick and easy access to a petty patent, in the case of the petty patent system an application for such a patent will not automatically be subjected to the same rigorous examination as is applied to applications for standard patents. I believe there are two problems with this. Firstly, it is the concern of larger industriesthey have expressed that concern- who patent extensively under the standard patent system that there will be a possible proliferation of petty patents of doubtful validity. One can answer that concern by saying that the Bill imposes certain obligations on the Commissioner. Here I refer to proposed new section 49A. (2) of the Bill which states: 
The Commissioner shall not accept an application for the grant of a petty patent if he is satisfied that there is lawful ground of objection to the grant of the petty patent or that the application or petty patent specification does not comply with the requirements of this Act. 
Proposed new section 49A (3) states: 
For the purposes of considering an application for a petty patent and a petty patent specification, the Commissioner may make, or direct the conduct of, such investigations as he thinks fit. 
It is that obligation which I believe raises the second concern. In order to satisfy the first concern, the possibility of a proliferation of petty patents of doubtful validity, the Bill provides that the Commissioner is required to conduct a level of investigation which may in fact deny easy access. We may well end up in the situation of petty patents legislation amounting to nothing more than the grant of a standard patent for a shorter term. Conversely the opposite case may occur. A conscious or subconscious relaxation by patent examiners as to the level of inventiveness required for petty patents could bring about the danger of court proceedings declaring invalid such petty patents. Again this would defeat the object of the Bill. 
This proposed legislation is the result of a long consultative process, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide. This consultative process was commenced back in 1973 by the Franki Committee. In December last year we saw the appearance of the draft Bill and as a result of some criticisms and complaints about that draft Bill it was referred to the Industrial Property Advisory Committee which in turn reported to the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  Common to those three steps and common to this Bill is an inability to define the level of inventiveness, to define different levels- one for a standard patent and one for a petty patent. This difficulty was recognised by the Industrial Property Advisory Committee. At page 4 of the report of the Committee it is stated: 
. recognises that a need may exist for an alternative form of protection for inventions of lower inventive merit. 
The report also recognises the attitude of the Institute of Patent Attorneys who suggested that this might be achieved by introducing a difference in the respective levels of invention required to sustain a patent and a petty patent by removing obviousness as a ground of invalidity of a petty patent. Further on the report mentions the possibility of a twin system, one system for the petty patent and one system for the standard patent. In my wisdom- limited as it is- I suggest that perhaps the Bill could have contained a clause or a provision which would read as follows: 
In considering whether or not an invention is proper subject matter for the grant of a petty patent 'he Commissioner shall apply a lower standard of inventiveness than is required for the grant of a standard patent. 
Alternatively or additionally the Act could clearly specify the level of inventiveness necessary to justify the grant of a standard patent by using a definition of an inventive step, as incorporated in the British Patents Act 1977. 1 agree that this is a very difficult question but I do not propose to move any amendments to the Bill. It is recognised that it is a difficult question and in the light of the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide I would say that we would do best to see the Bill in action. I believe that the Minister realises the problems. In fact the last paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech states:   . . and I assure honourable members of my intention that the system will be continuously monitored with a view to making such alterations as from time to time appear necessary to ensure that the basic aim of assisting innovation and productivity in Australia is fulfilled. 
It may well be that once this Bill has been in operation for some time, once patent attorneys are used to working with it and once industry, inventors, entrepreneurs and small businesses see how it works, difficulties may arise and we may have to come back into this place and amend it. Notwithstanding the problem of the level of inventiveness I welcome the Bill as being an attempt to meet the needs of Australian industry. I welcome it because I believe that if it is successful- if it is not successful it can be amended to be successful- it will be particularly useful to small businesses which invent a new product or service which has a short life. 
I close by saying simply that 48 hours ago I had several other questions on the Bill which I wanted to raise in the Committee stage. I wrote to the Minister and he sought an urgent reply to my representations and questions from the Patents Office. While I am in the chamber I would like to thank the officers of the Patent Office, especially the Commissioner of Patents, for providing me, through the Minister, with such a prompt reply to the points I raised. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. On Tuesday of last week the National Training Council met the Minister in Canberra and recommended to him the introduction of a scheme designed to provide accelerated training programs to boost the number of tradesmen. The Minister will be aware of continuing community concern about the shortage in the work force of skilled tradesmen and I now ask him whether he will be supporting the National Training Council proposalMr VINER- I am glad to inform the honourable gentleman immediately that I will be supporting the National Training Council proposal. This particular proposal is one that the Council and my Department have had under consideration for some time. It derives from a concern expressed by both the Council and my Department  at the lack of tradesmen for the future needs of Australian industry. That lack is becoming more apparent daily. Of course, when we see the encouraging signs in the economy that are now emerging, it is a matter of concern that in the years ahead we will not have the number of tradesmen that industry requires in order to take advantage of that recovery. 
I might also inform my colleague and the House that involved in this proposal for a complementary trade training scheme is a particular scheme put forward by the Western Australian Government. It envisages eight pilot courses to provide training for about 100 people at a cost of $ 1.6 m. I also inform my colleague that I will be looking favourably at this Western Australian proposal as one of the pilot projects under the National Training Council scheme along with possible pilot projects in Victoria and New South Wales. There will have to be some further discussions with the Western Australian Government to tailor its proposal to fit into the national training scheme. 
Might I for a moment just outline to the House the substance of this scheme because I am sure that it will be of interest to all honourable members. 
-The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  has ensured that I am able to take part in this debate by swapping his place with mine in the speakers list and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  has surrendered to me some of his speaking time. I thank them both; I am certainly very grateful. 
I cannot escape the fact that the fundamental issue underlying this debate on the motion and the various amendments is the issue of abortion itself. I do not want to be selfish with respect to time but I want to use this occasion to state adequately where I stand on this issue and to explain as clearly and as succinctly as I am able the beliefs and reasoning upon which I base my stance. Simply, I hold what I refer to as a conceptionist or genetic view. I believe that conception marks the beginning of human life and that the unborn are human beings. As human beings, the unborn are of us; beings of intrinsic worth, of the sort of worth we ascribe to ourselves. The unborn have human status and human value. They have rights and other human beings have responsibilities towards them. 
Necessarily, then, abortion is the destruction of a human life and the death of a human being. I believe it should be understood as such and proscribed by society, as is the death of any human being. My view is supported by a moral intuition which is shared by many much of the time. For example, when we hear of conception we do not regard it and we do not respond to it as if it were mere biological data. We react in ways which show that this is the beginning of something important and special. We are reacting to a human being who is one of us and who has intrinsic human value. Such intuitions about the nature and the value of new human life are shared by both those who welcome and those who would turn away from the unborn. In our better and gladder moments we rejoice at conception and celebrate the good news. Our responses are akin to those elicited by birth itself. Obversely, when conception is unwelcome we still respond to it as involving a human being. When pregnancy is regarded as a burden rather than a joy it is felt as oppressive precisely because the bearer cannot or will not assume the responsibilities that the unborn, let alone the born, dependent human being calls for. 
However, for those in this place who would question the validity of moral intuition, my view is also supported by fact and I believe it can be sustained by rational argument. There are those who are happy to support abortion because they do not accept that conception marks the beginning of human life. I believe this view is easily refuted because it is simply contrary to indisputable scientific fact. The fertilised ovum is a different type of life form from either the sperm or the ovum from which it is formed. It has its own new, individual, identifiable chromosomes and genetic make-up different from either the mother or the father. The test tube conception which, when transferred to the womb of the mother ultimately led to the birth of Louise Brown in the United Kingdom in July last year, is further easily understood and manifest proof that conception marks the beginning of human life. That birth can be explained in no other way. Thus, at least it must be accepted that abortion is the destruction of human life. However, there are still other people who, whilst accepting that conception marks the beginning of human life, maintain support for abortion because they do not agree that the unborn are human beings. Such people make the distinction that conception marks the beginning of biological life but they do not accept that human status can be given to this life. They say it is less than human and that on that basis termination can be justified. 
Normally accepted precepts of justice would require such people empirically to prove their case beyond all reasonable doubt. They are unable to do so and, further, I believe it can be shown that their arguments are defective. As a group, people who hold such a view can be labelled developmentalists. It will be remembered that conceptionalists insist on the humanity of the unborn. On the other hand, developmentalists argue that becoming human is a matter of time and of maturation. They say it does not all happen at once in a magic moment; one becomes a human being gradually and the value of the developing life, as well as our responsibilities to it, also change with time. The argument, then, between the conceptionists and the developmentalists revolves around the question of what it is to be human and who may belong to that special class. Conceptionists, of course, hold a view but there is an inherent difficulty with the developmentalists position in even determining where one draws the line beyond which the unborn is to be considered a human being and abortion therefore is no longer accepted. The more conservative the developmentalist, the earlier he draws the line- for example, at the incidence of heartbeat or brain activity. But, one may ask, what makes brain activity or heartbeat a more acceptable defining essence of what it is to be a human being than the existence of the 46 chromosomes and genetic completeness. 
Moderates draw the line at the point where the foetus is capable of viable existence outside the womb. Does this mean that advances in medical science and technology can determine what it is to be a human being? Does that mean that premature babies should be allowed to die because they are not capable of viable existence outside the womb but need the womb-like conditions of the humicrib? Finally, extremist developmentalists stipulate that post-natal ability to reason and to act socially is a minimum for human status. They insist on the prerequisite that to be considered human the unborn must also act like us rather than merely function like us. Does this mean the killing of infants who are born mentally retarded? Is euthenasia to be the case when people suffer severe brain damage because of accident? Out of this confusing picture of the developmentalists position the question arises of whether all life forms are equal but some are more equal than others. Developmentalists are responsible for the question but they cannot agree on an answer. Conceptionists do have an answer, and it is this: Certainly there is a great difference between a fertilised human egg and a viable foetus, and certainly it is more serious to abort the latter than to destroy a few cells or an embryo. However, is this not encompassed by the ready admission that one can regret the death of one life or one person more than another? 
There is something additional in the more developed foetus that makes the killing of it worse than the destruction of the fertilised egg. Equally, we all find the untimely death of a talented and promising young person is worse than the death of someone who has reached old age. Equally, we all grieve more for one we have known and loved than for a stranger. But in each of these examples it is not imagined for a moment that our different responses imply different levels of humanity, that the elderly are less human than the young and talented, that loved ones are human beings whilst strangers are not. The conceptionists claim about the unborn is similar to that regarding all other human beings, whether they stand near conception or near death, whether they are healthy or diseased, whether they are able and rational or incapacitated and retarded and whether they do things for us or we must do things for them. Unborn human life has unique value simply because it exists. 
To this point I have dealt with what I believe to be the fundamental issue of this debate, which is the issue of abortion itself. Scientific fact demonstrates that conception marks the beginning of human life, and by moral intuition and logic of argument I believe that it can be shown that the unborn are human beings. Abortion necessarily is the destruction of a human life and the death of a human being. Why then is abortion accepted so readily and practised so widely? I believe that it is so because most popular support in favour of abortion attempts either to deny the humanity of the unborn or ignore it. Attempt at denial is simply an example of an effort to change the definition of a human being to support whatever moral responsibilities one wishes to advocate or assume. A self-deceiving rationalisation is employed to justify the death of another human being. We do the same in wartime. We typify the human enemy in terms less than human so that we may with easy conscience destroy him. On the other hand, the most popular example of a abortion stance which ignores the humanity of the unborn is that promoted by the so-called women's movement. It simply falls flat in terms of any classic liberalism because it fails to face up to and resolve the fact that another person is involved in this question of choice- the unborn child. I readily recognise that pregnancy, birth and child rearing may cause enormous difficulty and hardship for the mother, either emotionally, psychologically, socially or economically. I simply want to close with this point. They are human problems which can be solved by human, humane means, and the destruction of one of the participants in that problem- the unborn childdoes nothing to solve the root problem and in fact is inhuman and unjust. In conclusion, I support the Lusher motion and will be voting for it. 
-The Minister for Special Trade Representations was present at the first three weeks of the current meeting of the fifth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. UNCTAD negotiations? In particular, can he say what happened to the Australian resolution on inflation, protectionism and structural adjustment? 
-Australia Post is getting star billing tonight. I too would like to talk about Australia Post and its current restructuring process with respect to its post office facilities throughout Australia. In this restructuring process the guidelines that Australia Post is applying are applicable throughout Australia. In my electorate of Tangney they have resulted in the closure of the Queens Park East non-official post office and the possible closure of two further post office agencies. As I understand it, in reaching a decision to close a non-official post office, Australia Post takes into account a variety of factors including, for example, the volume of business being presently transacted, the likely level of future business, the general trend of development in the area served by the agency and the capacity of the general postal network to take up the slack if the agency were closed. 
In terms of the guidelines, I have no doubt that the restructuring process is being conducted fairly. Equally, I also accept that many post offices were originally established to cater for needs which no longer exist. For example, pensions were once paid at post offices but now they are paid by cheque or directly into a bank account. Telephones are now being used much more than letters or telegrams. General cheques are increasingly taking over from postal money orders and there are such things as private parcels and courier services. In an overall sense people are generally more mobile and not dependent on the local post office. 
The point I want to make is that I am concerned that Autralia Post should be looking to close any non-official post office. In my view the closures are the result of the system of operation of the non-official post offices. Currently Australia Post pays a salary to non-official postmasters which includes components to cover such things as rent, heating, lighting and some telephone expenses and allowances to cover such factors as cleaning, penalty payments, holidays and so on. If the volume of business falls a point is obviously reached where Australia Post does not think it is getting its money's worth. Agencies can run at a loss but Australia Post, in an effort to keep its costs at reasonable levels, seeks to close those agencies. 
Banks, building societies and health insurance funds all have agencies in shops and these agencies are paid only on commission for business transacted. Instead of closing agencies, it is in the interests of the banks, the building societies and the health insurance funds to serve their customers as best they can and it is in their interests to have as many outlets as possible. When these agencies are paid on commission, costs are related to the volume of business transacted and are covered by the business transacted. In my view, if Australia Post were to adopt this type of system of payment for its agencies it also would be in its interests to have as many agencies as possible instead of closing agencies. Service to the public would be increased instead of withdrawn and centralised. Importantly, each agency would pay for itself. As I understand it, the present system of payment for the conduct of non-official post offices evolved over a long period. It was formalised as part of the NonOfficial Postmasters Award issued under the Public Service Inspector's determination in 1942 and amended by subsequent determinations. I believe that the determination needs to be changed in the public interest. I have written to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  who, full credit to him, has advised me that Australia Post is closely examining the matter. I hope to receive a speedy and favourable reply. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I briefly preface my question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs by recalling an answer that the  Deputy  Prime Minister gave yesterday during Question Time when he cited several major industrial projects as tangible evidence of the success of the Government's positive strategy for the creation of real job opportunities in Australia. In the Western Australian context, are such developments as the North West Shelf, the Alwest project at Worsley and the Alcoa project at Wagerup the result of the same positive job-creating strategy? What are the immediate job opportunities offered by these projects and what will be the longer term multiplier effects on the job market? 
I rise to grieve this afternoon in general terms about the two-airline policy. I hope on subsequent occasions to be able to develop the argument in more specific terms. In short, I believe the twoairline policy to be economic madness which is costing Australia dearly. It is not the only reason that we are suffering our unemployment problems or budgetary deficit problems. But I do believe that, in terms of the prohibitive effect the two-airline policy is having on the tourist industry, our greatest potential growth industry, it certainly is a significant factor. It is certainly the reason why more and more Australians- last year there were a million of them- fly their money overseas and in doing so create overseas jobs instead of jobs in Australia, while threequarters of Australia's own tourist industry struggles even to get off the ground. I believe it is a reason why our nation, once a pioneer and a world leader in long-distance aviation, now has probably the most regulation-ridden, the most feather-bedded and possibly the least efficient airline industry in the Western world. 
The two-airline policy was designed for an industry in its infancy. It has been maintained by successive governments to date but it is now grossly out of date. I would describe it as the greatest protectionist document of all time. It continues to prop up and spoon feed this country's airline duopoly at the consumers expense.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I believe that one only has to look at the two-airline policy to appreciate and understand what I mean. It provides for two, and only two, major interestate airlines in Australia. Under its so-called Rationalisation Arrangements these two airlines are forbidden to compete in any way with respect to fares, equipment, services or schedules. Worse than that, no other airline may compete with the two major airlines. They must meet and set their fares together, an action which is totally illegal for other companies under the Trade Practices Act. In fact, other companies have been fined up to $100,000 for similar price fixing. The Airlines Agreements Act on which the two-airline policy is based, has even been found to be in contravention of section 92 of the Constitution- that is the free interstate trade section- but support for the policy nevertheless keeps out even the threat of potential competition by prohibiting the importation of aircraft suitable for economic passenger operation on long interstate distances. The result is that the two major airlines are able to operate inefficiently, none competitively, and earn and share monopolistic profits. 
The two-airline policy sends our tourists overseas. I ask honourable members to take an example. Would a prudent Sydneysider pay above $400 for an economy return fare to Perth when he can pay less than $400 return and travel over twice the distance to Honolulu and have thrown in seven nights of luxury hotel accommodation. How can we compete on that basis? The two-airline policy disadvantages all Australians and especially those who do not live in the major commercial, industrial and political centres of the south-east corner of our continent. The twoairline policy increases the cost of virtually every business in Australia. It impoverishes sporting bodies and the like whose members wish to travel for interstate competition. I stress again that it prohibits the growth of our tourist industry, prevents thousands of Australians from seeing their own country and keeps friends and relations apart. 1 do not believe this situation should continue. 
Recent United States experience shows us what can be achieved if we take the right decisions. After decades of similar centralised bureaucratic control, the United States Government announced that, apart from safety factors, it would completely deregulate its interstate airline industry over the next five years. No chaos or confusion has occurred. There have been immediate and massive fare reductions, with many companies competing for increased business. 
At record profits, as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  interjects. One can now travel from New York to San Francisco, a distance of over 4,000 kilometres for less than $ 100. If we compare that with the Sydney to Perth fare over a shorter distance we see what we are up against in Australia. I believe that deregulation in Australia along similar lines can have the same positive benefits and results. 
The Department of Transport's recent review of the Australian domestic airline policy at least recognises that the two-airline agreement allows for a lack of competition in the industry, denies the public adequate choice of fares and departure times, and allows for gross inefficiency, However, while recognising these failings within the industry, the Department considers the best method of improving airline services is for industry self-regulation within a framework of only minor changes to the two-airline policy. In my opinion, on the record of Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines, there will be little change to the status quo. Any change that may occur will certainly be long overdue, and I think will occur only after intense ministerial pressure. Australians require an efficient, profitable airline service which caters for their needs and preferences - 
-Particularly in Western Australia. Unless change occurs Australia's domestic airlines will continue to have air fares which are unnecessarily high, a gross inefficient misallocation of resources, and a policy which discourages innovation and market arrangements which are not tailored to the public demand. We ask the question: What can be done? To date ministerial pressure has resulted in improvements under the two-airline policy. The week before we heard the Minister list in this House some of the improvements- stand-by fares, advance purchase fares, super APEX fares, international add-ons and the like. These improvements are certainly not to be denied and the Minister is to be congratulated for them. But these very achievements have been made against the two-airline policy and only after intense pressure on the part of the Minister. 
I believe it is now high time for the two-airline policy itself to be tackled. As a first step, I believe the rationalisation arrangements should be scrapped. That would remove the hurdles to innovative fares and allow genuine independence of action and competition between the two major airlines in respect of time-tables, flight frequencies, stopping places, aircraft type, capacity, freight, loading and so forth. As an important second step, barriers against market entry into the industry should be removed. Other firms should be allowed to expand into new markets and offer different services. Even further, other firms should be allowed to come into the market place for the first time and to offer whatever services they can, provided that the safety standards are met and that they pay the current relevant costs such as airport charges. I believe that such changes would see a more competitive market in the airline industry, an industry which is more dynamic and innovative and which has a more responsive attitude and outlook to market needs and consumer demands in terms of prices, schedules and services. 
In a general sense I think that foremost amongst Australia's problems today is the structural rigidity of many of our institutions. One can think of many examples such as the apprenticeship system, the wage fixing system and the industrial relations system. 
The two-airline policy is one of those rigid, outdated and outmoded institutions designed to meet circumstances which no longer exist. Its retention now is not only not in the best interests of Australia but also carries positive disadvantages. In seeking change I believe that our responsibility is not to the two major airlines but to Australian consumers and that we should bring about a situation whereby the airlines can no longer continue the cosy, cossetted noncompetitive relationship which they have at the moment. If we take this important step I believe that we will be advancing Australia's progress in a most important and responsible way. We should begin immediately to deregulate the twoairline industry. 
-In the past the Treasurer has expressed himself broadly in favour of an independent advisory committee on taxation in line with the Asprey Review Committee recommendation. Is the Treasurer able to inform the House whether he has further considered this proposal? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) How many persons are employed in Canberra by the Embassies of (a) Afghanistan; (b) Bulgaria; (c) Burma; (d) China; (e) Czechoslovakia; (f) Finland; (g) the German Democratic Republic; (h) Hungary; (i) Mongolia; (j) Poland; (k) Romania; (I) the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics and (m) Vietnam. 
) What are the individual occupational designations and duties of these employees. 
How many persons are employed by the Australian Embassy in each of these nations. 
What are the individual occupational designations and duties of these Australian Embassy employees. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware that the Colombo Meeting of Young Commonwealth Leaders held in May this year discussed ways of alleviating youth unemployment? Did the young Commonwealth leaders recommend that the attention of Commonwealth governments be drawn to the urgent need for reviewing education systems in order to establish a firm relationship between education, employment and the requirements of national development? Also, is the Minister aware that the Colombo meeting recommended that the employment orientation of education should be strengthened by the introduction of early work experience schemes and that these schemes provide combinations of work experience, training and job-seeking skills? Finally, what relevance and importance do these statements have to the Minister's recent announcement of a new school-to-work transition policy? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
What is the 
type, 
volume and 
value of Australian 
exports to and 
imports from Ethiopia. 
Which Australian companies are engaged in this trade. 
I ask the Minister for Transport: Is it true that level long-distance jet flights have much lower operating costs per kilometre than short up and down flights? If this is so, why do Perth passengers on the 3,412-kilometre route to Sydney and the 2,702-kilometre route to Melbourne pay exactly the same flagfall and kilometre rate as do Sydney-Canberra travellers on a flight of 248 kilometres? Is this fare structure one of the reasons why Perth travellers are subsidising other domestic routes and airline profits by some $20m per annum? Finally, does the Minister appreciate that the realisation of these inequities is causing increasing public concern in Western Australia? 
I seek leave to present the report of the leader of the Australian Delegation to the Second Meeting of the Young Commonwealth Leaders held in Colombo, Sri Lanka, from 3 to 8 May 1979 and to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave not granted. 
by leave-I present the report of the Leader of the Australian Delegation to the second meeting of Young Commonwealth Leaders held in Colombo, Sri Lanka from 3 May to 8 May 1979. I was fortunate to represent the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and to lead the Australian delegation. The first meeting of Young Commonwealth Leaders was held two years earlier, in May 1977 in Ocho Rios, Jamaica. The Australian delegation on that occasion was led by my colleague, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  At that first meeting it was stressed that the broad topic of participation by young people must remain a priority concern of the Commonwealth Youth Program. The delegates at Ocho Rios and the 1978 Commonwealth Affairs Council meeting in Canada enthusiastically supported the proposal to hold a second young leaders meeting. 
A second meeting was considered important not only to follow up the outcome of the Ocho Rios declaration by Commonwealth youth and to continue the emphasis of the Commonwealth Youth Program in preparing young people in the Commonwealth for participation in national decision making, but also to enhance the role of young leaders in the Commonwealth. 
The venue for the second meeting was decided when the Sri Lankan Government offered to host the conference. Each Commonwealth government was invited to send up to three delegates chosen from among young parliamentarians and government members, leaders of youth wings of political parties, elected leaders of youth organisations, young trade union leaders and young government officials- all preferably under 35 years of age. 
Australia was among the 28 Commonwealth countries which participated, and an observer from ESCAP- the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific- also attended. Particularly welcomed was the participation by ten young Ministers from Commonwealth governments and four young members of Commonwealth parliaments, whose responsibilities and interests lay in several fields, including youth affairs. The meeting recognised the practical wisdom and experience young ministers and members of parliament could contribute and the weight their participation would add to the effect which the outcome of the deliberations at 
Colombo would have in the Commonwealth generally. 
The first meeting in Ocho Rios had concerned itself with young peoples' participation in the political, social and economic development of their own countries. This second meeting in Colombo focussed on the international problem of youth unemployment and the concept of the new international economic order. The aims of the meeting were: Firstly, to express the views of young leaders on the unemployment situation in their respective countries, highlighting the implications for both those unemployed, especially in the very real human terms, and for national economic development; secondly, to attempt to identify innovative measures designed to alleviate unemployment currently being implemented in some countries together with employment alternatives; thirdly, to review work being undertaken by the Commonwealth Youth Program on youth unemployment and to make recommendations; fourthly, to recommend further action to alleviate youth unemployment by young people and their organisations and by governments; fifthly, to consider the continuing responsibilities of the Commonwealth Youth Program in highlighting the unemployment situation amongst young people; sixthly, to stimulate discussion among young leaders on aspects of the new international economic order, to encourage them to mobilise opinion and action amongst young people in their respective countries; and seventhly, to endeavour to identify linkage between the current high incidence of youth unemployment and its possible amelioration with a new international economic order. 
The format of the meeting revolved around the presentation of lead papers to plenary sessions. Further detailed discussion then took place in two commissions, one on youth unemployment and the other on the new international economic order and the general north-south dialogue. The lead papers, reports of the commissions and the final statement are all printed in the report which I presented. Those who read the report will appreciate that the conference was very successful in achieving its aims. Contained in the final statement are realistic, worthwhile recommendations, applicable to all participating Commonwealth countries. Noteworthy among the recommendations is the strong emphasis on the capacity of small business to provide employment opportunities and on job creation and selfemployment by youths. 
In the Australian context, these emphases firstly fit well with present support of governments, both State and Federal, for small business and further possibilities for extensions of that support especially in the taxation area. Secondly they fit in well with self-employment schemes such as work co-operatives. With respect to the new international economic order, there is undoubtedly scope within Australia for a domestic education program to make our citizens aware of this international concept and ofthe reality of the interdependence of nations. Additionally, there is a further international role for Australia in promoting youth and sporting links between Commonwealth countries. I would like to pay tribute to the other member of the Australian delegation, Miss Sue Knowles, a member of the National Youth Advisory Group. Her contribution throughout the conference was recognised and appreciated by all the participants. 
Miss Knowles, I am certain, would also like to join me in thanking for their guidance and assistance,  Mr Andrew  Mullin, second secretary, and Miss Jenny Rawson, third secretary of the Australian High Commission in Colombo. Both  Mr Mullin  and Miss Rawson sat in on several ofthe conference sessions and their presence added greatly to the value of the Australian contribution. The conference was an extremely rewarding experience for all who participated and it was certainly well organised and efficiently run. Full credit must be paid to the Commonwealth secretariat and the National Youth Service Council of Sri Lanka, which jointly made up the conference secretariat. 
The third meeting of Young Commonwealth Leaders has been tentatively scheduled for May 1981 at Lusaka, Zambia. Australia is the third major financial contributor to the Commonwealth Youth Program, behind Great Britain and Canada, and I am strongly of the view that we should maintain out support to ensure that such meetings of young leaders can continue on a regular basis. I especially appreciate the presence in the Chamber of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs for the presentation of this report. Within the unique organisation of the Commonwealth these young leaders meetings provide ideal opportunities for young people of related nations to meet, to discuss and to decide together on matters of mutal concern to themselves and their countries. Such exchanges greatly benefit all who participate and individual friendships forged cannot help but advance the cause of peace and goodwill between men and Commonwealth nations. 
I refer the Treasurer to widespread calls for the introduction of a flat rate of personal income tax to replace the present threetiered rate system. Has the Treasurer examined these proposals? What are their implications for all groups of taxpayers? 
I rise to speak very briefly in support of the Bills and to oppose the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition in relation to the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill. I do not think that I have ever had as much interest shown in a speech as is being shown in the House this afternoon. Everybody is interested to know when I will finish. There are just a couple of things that I would like to say on this legislation. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  tried to pin this legislation as an attack on the Australian Union of Students. Let us be quite clear about this. The thrust of these two Bills - the Australian National University Amendment Bill and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill- represents the Federal Government's response to the problems of compulsory membership of student organisations, so-called student unionism, and the unrepresentative use of student funds from those campuses for which the Federal Government has some sort of legislative responsibility. The legislation seeks to safeguard the very important principle of freedom of association and, equally important, freedom of non-association. 
I do not have time to detail the whole of the history which has given rise to this legislation, but I think two major historical facts need to be remembered. They have largely contributed to the need for this sort of Bill. The first is the channelling of compulsory student funds by unrepresentative student organisations to every conceivable ratbag minority cause in the country and overseas. The second fact is that in the past there has been a denial of student status and student rights by some university administrations around the country to those students who refused to pay the compulsory student union levy. We are safeguarding those students, a protection that I certainly did not enjoy when I was at the campus of the University of Western Australia. 
We have heard the Opposition contribution. I want to contrast that furphy with the facts of the legislation. It is to safeguard students' rights. Let us just remind ourselves of the main provision in the legislation. Membership of student organisations will be voluntary. Fees payable in respect of membership of a student organisation will also be voluntary. No student will be penalised for not joining. That is a right which was not enjoyed by all students in the past. Compulsory fees can be used only for the provision of amenities or services. Where it is the case that the council of a university makes compulsory fee money available to a student organisation for the provision by that organisation of approved amenities or services, the council must firstly satisfy itself that the governing body of that organisation is representative of its members. When paid, such moneys will be for the provision of amenities and services which will directly benefit the university. Moneys will not be paid to any national organisation unless the council is satisfied that it is encouraging students' sporting and recreational activities, promoting student interests in some other particular educational, cultural or social field, or promoting the interests of post-graduate students. 
There is also going to be accountability in terms of the disposal of that money with details of receipts and expenditures. In summary, we have a legislative package which I believe takes a very small step along the important road of providing for the introduction of the principles of voluntary association and academic freedom. We are talking about the principles of voluntary association; simply that means the freedom to join or not to join. If one decides not to join, one is not to be penalised for that decision. It is the freedom to pay money to an organisation one supports. Any student in any tertiary institution in this capital can still belong to Australian 
Union of Students or any other organisation, but this legislation goes one step further in that it provides for the freedom not to join and not to pay that money, and importantly, not to be penalised for that decision. Therefore, I find it absolutely incredible, when we are talking about such basic freedoms, that we are encountering the opposition that we have had this afternoon and that we had in the chamber only last week. I strongly support the legislation and I trust the House will oppose the amendment. 
The question is: That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary, no. I think the ayes have it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What has been the total amount of departure tax collected since 24 October 1 978. 
What has been the cost incurred in collecting the tax and how was the cost incurred (e.g. increased staff, installation of collection booths, etc.). 
How many staff are employed to collect departure tax (a) around Australia and (b) at Western Australian points of departure. 
Are these staff engaged on other departmental duties when international passenger departures are not taking place; if not, are they paid overtime rates of pay when international passenger departures occur outside normal Public Service Board determined working hours. 
