It is a pleasure and, indeed, an honour to be in the situation of seconding the motion moved so ably by my colleague  Senator Melzer.  I should also like to join her in congratulating you,  Mr Deputy 

 President, on your appointment and to ask you to convey my congratulations to the  President  who is a fellow Launcestonian a fellow member of the Australian Labor Party and a friend. It is an honour to be present in this place representing Tasmania and the Australian Labor Party, particularly in the circumstances in which this Party has been re-elected to office in an election not of its own making. 
I was pleased to hear in the speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General that in fact we will continue the plans which we have had in hand since before 1969- plans which have been accepted by the Australian electorate in 2 elections since and plans which I believe are to the benefit of all of us and all in the community. We are a democratic socialist party in the tradition of democratic socialism or social democracy which is present in government in many parts of the world. As a democratic socialist party we are a reforming party- unashamedly so. We believe in reform, both economic and social, and we believe that the system of priorities as a result of these reforms must change so that we can have a just and proper society. But for a reforming party which follows a long period of conservative government there are always difficulties. Most of these difficulties arise because those people who have reached a position of privilege or wealth in the community under the previous system naturally resist any reform. Because of their position or privileges in the community they have the finances and the access to the media and other resources to get arguments across. Therefore our task becomes more difficult. 
It is understandable that those who oppose our agricultural policy do so because the previous system of across-the-board tariffs- a system of tariffs based on production- naturally favoured those who produced most and therefore needed the subsidies least. But the agricultural policy, as with other policies, will in time be shown to be a fair policy and will be shown to increase the stability of the agricultural industry in this country. Therefore we will not have fluctuating prices, fluctuating conditions and the necessity for intermittent ad hoc policies to be applied. 
It is understandable that those who take a simplistic view of foreign affairs- those who believe that we should ignore over half the population of the world in our foreign relationsshould oppose the widening of our foreign relations in the world sphere. It is pleasing to me that this sort of attitude is obviously no longer acceptable to the community and that the attitude of blind anti-communism which was accepted for so long no longer applies. I think the lot of the reformer or the attempted reformer is never a very easy one. Methods of opposition to reforms through the ages have not really changed very much. The sorts of methods that were always used and are still used, and used very effectively, are, firstly, to complicate and confuse the reform which is suggested; secondly, to misrepresent the reform by attempting to show that it seeks to do the opposite or something very much worse than is its aim; and, thirdly, to impute dishonourable motives to those who are suggesting the reform. To this in this day and age is usually added a good dose of the conspiratorial view of world affairs in which it is suggested that all reforms are part of some international conspiracy, be it religious, political or otherwise. 
Those who have read the history of social and economic reform will realise that the same tactics were used in respect of reforms for the introduction of the age pension, the introduction of workers' compensation, the introduction of the 48-hour week, the 44-hour week and the 40-hour week, the imposition of restrictions on child labour and the introduction of universal education. When all those things were introduced there were cries of disaster and of the impending dissolution of society. It was suggested that complete and utter chaos would result from each of those reforms. When we, in this day and age, consider the arguments against those reforms, we think that they are ludicrous. I think that in the future some of the arguments that vested interests use against the sorts of reforms which we wish to introduce will be considered just as ludicrous. 
I think it is always unfortunate when a debate on any political issue or on any issue of a social or economic nature or on any social or economic reform sinks to a level of personal denigration. Frequently there grow up organisations which are formed for the purpose of defeating some reform, and these lower the tone of the debate. These organisations are formed in an attempt to confuse and frighten the community into rejecting reforms which will benefit the people. I think a typical example of this sort of thing is what has happened in the present debate on the proposed national health insurance scheme. It has always seemed very sad to me that this situation should arise in respect of a proposal to introduce a national health insurance scheme which will give universal coverage to those in the community for their medical, surgical and other needs, which will preserve the freedom of choice of the patient and the doctor and which will extend freedom of choice to pensioners. This scheme is designed to preserve the doctor's right to bulk-bill or to charge the patient if he feels that the patient will overdo the service if no charge at all is made. 
It seems a shame to me that such a scheme is castigated as being conscription of doctors or socialisation of medicine, particularly when socialisation of medicine or nationalisation or conscription of doctors is exactly and particularly proscribed by the Australian Constitution. In this health debate there has arisen an organisation called the General Practitioners Society. This organisation claims to represent doctors and the interests of patients. But I think that a perusal of its activities over the last few years will indicate that in fact it has been a political organisation of the extreme Right which has grabbed hold of the issue in order to confuse it. Of course this organisation refuses to have anything to do with this Government. Incidentally, it also would refuse to have anything to do with a government which was formed from those parties represented by honourable senators opposite. This organisation considers that all governments in this country since Federation have been socialist governments. It considers the present Opposition parties to be socialist parties- something which I think creates some amusement on both sides of the chamber. It considers that governments should take no part in anything except the defence of the country and what it calls the preservation of individual freedoms. By 'preservation of individual freedoms' this organisation, like all these organisations, means the freedom of one man to exploit another. Frequently in its journal it uses quotations from well-known writers who have the conspiratorial view of world affairs that the world is being taken over by a communist and /or Jewish conspiracy. 
I suppose that this organisation, which is supported financially by many of the multinational drug firms, would receive more publicity in a debate on the health scheme than any of the other organisations involved; even more, I think, than the Australian Medical Association which is at least willing to negotiate with this Government or any other government. The people in this organisation have lowered the debate on the health scheme to this level. Of course, the organisation's actions culminated in it making personal attacks on the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  It called him a 'Nazi' and it called his Department the 'SS Department'- not a very clever pun. The organisation's actions culminated in it distributing a lying document which stated that the Minister for Social Security was a medical school drop-out and therefore hated doctors. It is unfortunate that some politicians in Australia have felt it advisable to support this organisation. 
I hope that when the national health insurance legislation is introduced again the debate will be a rational one, that we can look at the facts, the figures, the results and the outcome, and have a debate on a rational level and not on a highly emotional level as has happened in some quarters in this country previously. 
My concept and, I believe, my Party's concept, of the future of this country and of the future of the individuals in this country is that people should have the freedom and the opportunity to realise their reasonable ambitions without being exploited by others or indeed without exploiting others. I also believe that Australia should have control of its own resources and that it should be able to decide what happens to those resources, be they primary industry products, secondary industry products or mineral or energy resources. When an attempt was made to give this country complete control over its resources and to give the Australian people an opportunity to receive the benefits from the exploitation of its resources, similar, although I must admit less severe, attacks were made on the Minister concerned by people outside the Parliament and by people from outside Australia. One hopes that in the future debates on these matters will reach a higher level outside the Parliament than has been the case in the past. 
I said previously that we have to change our priorities, and I think that there are many fields in which we have to change our priorities. It has been obvious for a long time that we have to change our priorities in the field of urban development, and some attempts are now being made to do this. I welcome the attempts to decentralise urban areas in this country, to develop new towns and to develop new regions. I welcome the attempts to get finance from the main source of finance in this country, the Federal Government, for local government in order to upgrade local government and to get it out of the parlous state in which it finds itself in my State and in other States. To me it always has seemed impossible to justify the fact that in cities like Sydney and Melbourne, where there are thousands of square feet of empty office space, people work in beautifully carpeted, beautifully air conditioned and, in this modern age, beautifully sound proofed offices for 8 hours of the day, but that to get to work they have to travel by car on inadequate roads or in inadequate public transport. In travelling home from work they spend hours in a car on an inadequate road or in inadequate public transport, only to arrive home to an unsealed street in an unsewered area, and to spend the rest of their time in a house that they have not been able to carpet or to put in all the nice things that they have in their offices. 
To my mind the priorities are wrong. We should make some attempt to do something about these priorities. I believe that through the actions of this Government eventually we will do so although, as we will all admit, it is difficult to do anything about these things quickly in times of inflation. However, provided we do what the Governor-General said in his Speech; provided we determine our priorities in carrying out programs in the continuing fight against inflation; provided we protect the weaker sections of the community; provided we keep a firm commitment to the principle of full employment; provided there is equity in sharing sacrifices as well as prosperity, and provided there is an assurance that any deferment of expectations shall not be at the expense of those for whom deferment could mean a lifetime of deprivation, I believe we will control inflation and that eventually the world will beat the problem of inflation. Then I believe we will be able to go ahead with our programs of reform in this society so that every person can realise his reasonable aspirations, so that the exploitation of people by other people will stop and so that this country will get control of its resources. I thank you,  Mr President.  I think that that is as good a summary as I can give as to why I am on this side of the House and why I am honoured to represent this side of the House in this Parliament. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Will the PostmasterGeneral tell us what steps have been taken by the Government to ensure the adequate delivery of mail to and from Tasmania in the light of the present dispute involving the Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In the light of the recent announcement by the Western Australian Government that the Western Australian Aboriginal Affairs Planning Authority became the Western Australian office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on 1 July of this year, can the Minister advise whether a similar agreement has been arranged with other States for the transfer of responsibility for Aboriginal affairs from State governments to the Australian Government? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. When will the Minister announce the names of the  Chairman  and members of the new Australian Apple and Pear Corporation? What additional powers will the Corporation have compared with the Australian Apple and Pear Board which it will replace? 
It is with a feeling somewhat of deja vu that I stand here, I hope for the last time, to debate this health scheme because it has been debated since 1968 in this country. It has been debated day in and day out. More words have been poured out by both sides, probably, than any other recent debate. A lot of money has been poured into the debate. A lot of money has been poured into the vilification of the Government and of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who is in charge of the Bill in another place and who is in charge of the development of this scheme. It is rather strange for me to be speaking after  Senator Baume  in these circumstances. Many years ago  Senator Baume  taught me medicine. Honourable senators may be surprised to know that he did not teach me philosophy, politics, economics or anything else. 
-It may be a pity but, unfortunately for  Senator Jessop,  I went on reading after I read Adam Smith's book which was written 200 years ago.  Senator Baume  and certainly  Senator Sheil  seem to have read nothing since and seem to have accepted everything in that book as being the Bible truth. It surprised me to hear  Senator Baume  commence his speech with the nationalistic jingoistic business that we have the greatest doctors and that we are such a high performance community when we consider the parameters by which we judge world health. It is only in the last few weeks that our performance in relation to the World Health Organisation figures has been questioned. It has been demonstrated to be not all it should be by  Dr Michael  Goldacre both on programs on the Australian Broadcasting Commission and in a recent article in the ' National Times '. 
-Figures which have not been challenged. The figures come straight from the World Health Organisation. They are the only figures available to compare these parameters. The figures show, in fact, that amongst comparable nations we lie 11th in the infant mortality rates for the world. We lie below Holland, Norway, Japan, Finland, Denmark, Switzerland, France and New Zealand in infant mortality rates. I admit to  Senator Baume,  that we have pockets of underprivileged people, in particular the Aborigines whose infant mortality rate is an absolute disgrace to this country. But if the infant mortality rate for Aborigines is separated from the figures for the rest of the country we lie ninth. It seems incredible that we are proud of our performance when we lie below countries like Japan and France which had to spend so much time reconstructing their societies after the war. It is even more disconcerting when we know that during the 1930s we were regularly in the first 3 countries in the world in regard to infant mortality figures. If, as  Senator Baume  implies, these figures are the result of our good health delivery system we do not seem to have a very good health delivery system. 
I refer now to longevity- the expectation of life. Australians can expect to live a shorter time at birth than people from the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Greece, Italy, Malta and Spain. These are extraordinary circumstances in view of  Senator Baume  's statements. I will agree that health delivery is not the only factor in those figures. But I think it is disturbing to see how our infant mortality rate compares with other countries, particularly when we are so very much below Sweden, a nasty country with a democratic socialist government and a socialised medical scheme, not a national health insurance scheme such as we are trying to introduce. 
The honourable senator should know that the story that Sweden and Denmark have the highest suicide rates in the world is false. 
-We will get them for the honourable senator if he wishes. But these are the parameters which  Dr Baume  says demonstrate the quality of our health delivery service. I am sure honourable senators opposite are undoubtedly pleased that I do not intend to go into a long dissertation on the many clauses in the 2 Health Bills. Unlike the Opposition I will not try to pretend that these 2 Bills represent the only 2 concepts in Labor's scheme to improve health services in this country. It is wrong to argue and to take these Bills in isolation and imply that we are saying that if these 2 Bills are passed that is all we need do and we would, in fact, suddenly solve this country's health problem. A lot of other plans are involved and some of them are in action now. Our Health Insurance Commission plans to improve and develop hospitals in this country, to develop local health centres of various types, both salaried, fee for service and ordinary private schemes which  Senator Sheil  dislikes so much. 
These 2 Bills are part of the whole concept of improving the health care and the health delivery service in this country. We believe- and we make no bones about it- that we consider that the provision of an adequate medical health system in this country is a part of the social services for which it is appropriate that this Government should legislate. The Constitution provides that we can do so.  Mr Gorton,  in an article in the Nation Review' last weekend agreed with this. We make no bones about this matter and we agree that there is a philosophical difference between us and the more extreme conservatives on the Opposition side of the Senate. We are not pretending that we are anything different than we are. To suggest that this national health insurance scheme is in fact socialised medicine and is conscripting doctors- as  Mr Chipp  has pointed out on a couple of occasions- is arrant nonsense. In fact, to suggest that this Government would conscript doctors in peacetime when it is opposed to the conscription of young men to go to war in times of peace is, I think, a bit rich coming from the Opposition. 

 Senator Sheil obviously does not think much of these 2 Bills or of the scheme proposed by the Government but unfortunately he made it obvious in his speech that he did not think much of the Liberal-Country Party scheme proposed by  Mr Chipp  during the last election campaign. He does like one scheme. Apparently he thinks one scheme is all right. It is the system that they have in the Queensland hospitals where public hospital care- standard hospital care- is available to all members of the community without means test. Funnily enough we quite like that principle; we give it the greatest praise by copying it. 
The basis of our scheme is hospitalisation in standard wards without means test. The difficulty with the Queensland scheme is that under the conservative governments which have been in power since the scheme started the hospital system has suffered from lack of funds and neglect. However the Labor Party's scheme will provide more funds for the Queensland hospitals, will provide more hospitals, and will increase the number and quality of beds in those hospitals. An even more interesting fact is that because of the system in Queensland, which has a standard hospital bed without means test, private hospital beds in Queensland are the lowest priced in this country. In Tasmania, which is the other State which provides public hospital beds without means test, although a fee is charged, private hospital beds are the second lowest priced in the country. Private hospital beds in Australia are at their most expensive in those States where people have no freedom of choice in their hospitalisation. 
For  Senator Guilfoyle  to say that there is freedom of choice in the present hospital system is nonsense in Victoria and New South Wales. Whether you go into a public ward or an intermediate ward depends on your income. It is not a matter of choice; your income has to be low enough for you to get into a public ward. If you want to go into a public ward but earn too much you must go into an intermediate ward. In those States the costs of private and intermediate wards in fact are higher than in Queensland and Tasmania. It would seem that the presence of a public hospital system, admission to which does not depend on a means test, in  some  magical way cuts the expenses of the private hospitals. It mystifies me. I do not know why it happens. It is significant but I will not draw any conspiratorial sort of theories to explain it.  Senator Sheil,  however, really exceeded anything else I have heard in this health debate by his remark that nobody wants this scheme. He really topped the bill with his remarks about Aborigines. He said: 
They are a proud and noble people. 
I agree. He continued: 
They have a fierce independence regarding their health care. 
They may well have that. He also said: 
I work with Aborigines and I treat many more than those with whom I work. None of them are unhappy. None of them are dissatisfied. None of them are disadvantaged. 
Those words may haunt  Senator Sheil  for the rest of his political life because today he went on to explain to us that these people who are not disadvantaged have an appalling death rate in the ages from one to five years. He could have gone on and said that these people who are not disadvantaged have one of the worst infant mortality rates in the civilised world, which is a blot on this country. He could have gone on to say that they have the highest incidence of tuberculosis and almost every other illness except degenerative illnesses in this country. He could also have gone on to say that their expectation of life in general is the lowest in this country. I am referring to these people who he says are not dissatisfied, are not disadvantaged and are not unhappy. 
I think that sort of attitude is typical of certain people in the area from which he comes. It is a sort of philosophical mixture of the works of Premier Bjelke-Petersen, Eric Butler and  Senator Sim.  From remarks like this I would think that  Senator Shiel  practices in Utopia where there are a lot of happy Aborigines running around, all healthy, none disadvantaged and none dissatisfied. Really, it is extraordinary. The honourable senator also made some remarks about the poor. He said that if people are too poor they should go to their doctor and say that they cannot afford treatment and then the doctor will treat them for nothing. Of course, in most cases the doctor will treat them for nothing, but that is the sort of attitude that this Party has been trying to drag this country out of ever since it came into existence. This attitude that charity somehow uplifts the person who receives it and ennobles the person who gives it is nonsense and comes from the last century. This charitable nonsense shames the poor person who has to accept it and degrades the person who gives it. Surely we can get away from that attitude in 1974. 
Honourable senators on this side of the chamber have a funny sort of principle. We believe that this country is affluent enough and holds enough of this world's riches to provide its citizens with adequate medical care. We also think it has enough of this world 's riches to pay the people who provide that medical care. 
What about night care in Sydney, Senator? Night care in Sydney and night care in the Australian Capital Territory by private doctors operating on a fee-for-service basis is exactly the same. A patient hears a recorded message telling him to ring some service. 
In the salaried service here there are people on call just as there are in Sydney. The difficulty with some people in private practice in Sydney and Melbourne is that they have decided that they will work 5 or  5lA  days a week. I have no objection to their making that decision. I have no objection in their deciding that they will not do any night work or weekend work. Therefore locum services grew up in such districts because there were sufficient doctors to support the locums. Unfortunately the doctors who decided that they would not work at night or at weekends and that they would pay a locum service to do so also decided that their salaries would stay unchanged. So up went the fees. This is an explanation, as the honourable senator well knows, for the extraordinary fees in Melbourne and Sydney compared with those of their poor cousins in Tasmania, and even Queensland, whence  Senator Sheil  comes. 
The honourable senator knows that it is not nonsense. Freedom of choice under those circumstances is ludicrous. No one in this country except the right wing extremists of the General Practitioners Society and the League of Rights- frankly, I do not know how to distinguish between those 2 organisations- is opposed to a national health service. We already have one and not even the Liberal Party, Country Party, National Party, National Alliance coalition in opposition opposes it. We have a scheme that has worked relatively well, a scheme which is the sort of evolutionary predecessor to the proposed Labor scheme, but we can do better. To be successful a scheme should be socially equitable and efficient, and to do this universal coverage is essential. The Labor Party believes that the provision of adequate medical care is a social service, and the best way to fund this is through the system of progressive taxation that we use for every other social service in this country. 
The Labor Party's proposed scheme provides for the retention of the fee for service and for the retention of choice by doctor and patient. The scheme is little different from the present scheme. The only difference is in the provision of health insurance by an efficient single organisation instead of by the 160 organisations that we have now. The AMA agrees with us on the fee for service. The Liberal-Country Party Opposition agrees also. The AMA agrees with us on the freedom of choice for doctor and patient, and it also agrees on the inclusion of pensioners in the service, which stops pensioners being treated as second class citizens. It takes the pensioners out of the hospitals- out of out-patient care- and puts them in private surgeries. The scheme provides surgeons, physicians, skin specialists or any other sort of specialist with an adequate fee for their services. 
The possibility of bulk billing under our scheme worries the AMA. The possibility of bulk billing is absolutely opposed by the association. 
It surprises some people that the association is so opposed to the provision in our scheme of bulk billing. Under our proposed scheme the doctor, not the patient, can choose, whether he bulk bills, whether he bills the patient or whether the patient can make over to him that pan of the fee which the Government will pay. It has nothing to do with the patient It is the doctor's choice. He has the choice. No one else has. What worries the General Practitioners Society and members of the Australian Medical Association is that doctors are sensible people- general practitioners particularly are sensible people- and they will bulk bill because it is an economic and sensible way to do things, and it saves an awful lot of trouble. 
Both Bills envisage, above anything else, that the whole scheme will have predictable costs. It will have predictable costs because it wants to make and will make a provision that doctors' fees will be uniform, that doctors' fees will be changed in an orderly manner and that doctors' fees will be like almost all other fees- they will be changed by a system of arbitration. This is where the scheme gets most opposition, as  Senator Baume  and particularly  Senator Sheil  know. This scheme attacks the sacred right which doctors have had to charge what they like, where they like, when they like.  Senator Sheil  demonstrated this fact clearly. He said that the patients cannot be trusted.  His  attitude to patients is a bit like  Senator Wood's  attitude to the electorate. The patients are a bit simple. They cannot be trusted. They are cunning and nasty people who will muck up the system. But the doctors are noble, pure, honest people who can regulate their fees fairly without any outside interference. I will concede that most of my colleagues are noble, pure and honest, but unfortunately some of them are not. Some of them, through ignorance of what goes on in the outside world, have a strange concept of what is a fair fee for a fair service. 
This part of the scheme draws the most opposition. This part of the scheme draws the right wing lunatic fringe into an organisation such as the General Practitioners Society. The taking away of the sacred right to charge what you like when you like, without any outside interference and without any outside questioning, is the thing that makes doctors so opposed to the scheme. It is no good a senator from New South Wales, particularly, saying that if the patients do not like the present system they can shop around and go to a cheaper doctor because New South Wales general practitioners, above all others, have even that game beaten. For many years they have formed themselves into regional associations in certain areas of that State. In Sydney organisations meet to fix a uniform fee for their area. Only by going out of that area or to the public hospitals can patients avoid having to pay this fee. There is no shopping around. Why should people shop around, when they are sick, to get the cheapest care that they can get? 
-That is the continuous and particular claim of the opponents of this scheme, and the honourable senator knows it. The third part of the opposition to this scheme comes from the voluntary health organisations.. They are noble organisations. They have done a very good job. They have done an especially good job supplying the Opposition with public relations personnel, funds and supporting advertisements at election time. They are consumer organisations. They are non-profit organisations for the benefit of the consumer. The only thing wrong with them, in this modern age when consumers are becoming more concerned with that is going on around them, is that the consumers have no say in these organisations. In very few of the 160-odd hospital and medical benefits organisations in this country do consumers have any say at all. The largest voluntary medical scheme in this country, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd, has always had an extraordinary setup. It has 20 directors. Ten are members of the medical profession. They are medical directors. Only they can elect the other 10 directors who, I believe, are called consumer or contributor directors. It is almost an incestuous relationship. 
The voluntary health schemes, some of the bigger ones particularly, have become very large and have become little empires for those who manage and look after them. They have become considerable investors in various financial organisations in this country. They remain largely beyond the control of any of the people who put their money into them. I for one objected- I know others objected strongly- to the thousands and thousands of dollars which were poured out by these organisations into a political scheme. This money was money which contributors had paid to cover the costs of their sicknesses. When we made inquiries we were told that it was none of our business, that we just put our money in and they would do what they liked with it. 
For a long time we have known that the health insurance scheme was not working and that it was breaking down.  Senator Button  referred to the Nimmo report of 1969. It showed very clearly the inadequacies of the scheme. The Liberal-Country Parties, when in government, took no notice of it One of the few people who realised the inadequacies and who realised that something would have to be done before disaster struck was removed from the office of Prime Minister. I am not suggesting that there was any connection between the 2 events. I repeat  Senator Button's  listing of the findings of the Nimmo Committee. One of the Committee 's findings was that the operation of the health insurance scheme was unnecessarily complex and beyond the comprehension of many. The mere filling out of a form to claim a simple benefit from any of the voluntary health schemes is a complex and difficult problem for many people. Another finding of the Committee was that the benefits received by contributors were frequently much less than the cost of hospital and medical treatment. The former Government did something in this regard. It introduced the magical $5 moiety whereby any surgical procedure would not cost more than $5. Unfortunately, distinguished physicians such as  Senator Baume  were not considered to be as good as surgeons and people who suffered medical illnesses and could be treated by clever people like  Senator Baume  without having a hole cut in them still had to meet the large gap between the doctor's fee and the amount of the rebate from medical benefits. 
People join a voluntary health insurance fund because they believe they are covering themselves for illness, but they find that they are not covered and that they have to find a lot of money, in addition to what they get back from the health insurance schemes, to meet their medical expenses. The Committee's third finding was that the contributions had increased to such an extent that they were beyond the capacity of some members of the community and involved considerable hardship for others. This is the reason why so many people in the community find that they cannot adequately insure themselves for illness under the present scheme. Another finding of the Committee was that the costs of operation in some of these schemes were too high and that the level of reserves held by some organisations was unnecessarily high. Fortunately this Government is endeavouring to reduce these excess costs in some way. 
This son of report with its 7 findings and its 42 recommendations for change was recognised by the then Minister for Health and the then Prime Minister at the time as indicating that the scheme was falling to pieces, that it was ramshackle and that it was not leading anywhere. The main recommendation of the report and the main realisation of the then Minister for Health and the then Prime Minister, was, in fact, that unless there was predictability of cost, and unless there was some control, some arbitration over the fees that the medical profession was charging, this scheme would collapse. This was the thing that brought the most resistance from the medical profession at the time. This is the thing which still brings the most resistance from the medical profession. Any attempt by government, arbitration, any independent committee or anybody else to interfere with the sacred right of the medical profession to charge what it likes when it likes brings this reaction and resistance. 
We find that the Liberal and Country Parties proposed health scheme which was introduced prior to the last election, went a long way along the lines of our scheme. The Liberal and Country Parties recognised the necessity for universal coverage and in fact gave people the voluntary choice- either they would join a health scheme or an amount would be taken out of their earnings as taxation. Some choice! But if one really felt strongly about the matter one could write to the Taxation Commissioner once or twice a year and not have the contributions taken out of one 's earnings by way of taxation. This was the concession to freedom of choice that the Liberal and Country Parties gave. But what  Senator Baume  did not point out is that this was the concession that the Liberal movement policy said was ridiculous, that everybody should be in it, and that this nonsense of writing to the Taxation Commissioner as a let out was silly. 
But  Mr Chipp  admitted, as  Mr Gorton  had admitted previously, that we had to have some control, some predictability of costs. No matter how obvious it was, this had to be done, no matter how obvious it was that there should be uniform fees, the previous Government just could not make itself do it. Articles in the Press at the time suggested that  Mr Chipp  wanted to do this but that the more conservative members of the Opposition would not let him do it. Enlightened people in the Opposition like  Mr Chipp  could see that this was the main problem in the Opposition's scheme, that this was where it was going to break down, but the Opposition just could not do it. The previous Government protected its friends and vested interests in the voluntary health insurance schemes and said: 'Go ahead'. Despite the Nimmo Committee report which said that there were far too many schemes, the previous Government said: Go ahead, keep your jobs, keep your positions of privilege, keep your trips overseas to the world voluntary health insurance conferences - 
It also said: 'Purchase your planes to travel around New South Wales, keep your nice air-conditioned offices in Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane and everywhere else. Let them do this'. Honourable senators opposite protected them. Because the terms of reference of the Nimmo Committee provided that the Committee was to investigate only voluntary health schemes it could not suggest any alternative scheme. Even that Committee stated that there should be only one open scheme in each area, but  Senator Sheil  does not agree even with that proposal. He says that we should not interfere; that no government should interfere with the sacred right of the doctor to do what he likes with fees. Naturally, the General Practitioners' Society does not agree with any of these proposals. It considers that the Opposition is socialist and it considers that we are socialists. It considers that every government that Australia has ever had has been socialist- something which must amuse  Sir Robert  Menzies. The Society's secretary,  Dr Duncan  Yuille, considers that we should throw the destitute and poor a few vegetables in order to keep them from starving and let them fend for themselves. He, like  Senator Sheil,  thinks that the poor and the destitute should go begging for charity from the local doctor and that the local doctor will somehow be a noble bloke. 
All these arguments have been advanced against our proposed scheme. All these arguments have been trotted out. Actuarial reports have been trotted out with results depending on who compiled the reports. It has been suggested that the cost of our scheme has increased by $200m, and this morning I think it was suggested that the cost has increased by $350m. At the moment people are looking at these reports to see what they are all about, to see why people claim these things and to see whether the figures produced bear any resemblance to what the real cost of the scheme will be. 
Finally I repeat that the basis of the scheme is that there will be universal coverage for the Australian people for the cost of medical care and hospitalisation in a standard ward. This cost will be met by the National Health Insurance Commission. Hospitalisation will not cost patients anything at the time of hospitalisation but, of course, it will cost them something in their contributions. This scheme will remove the differences between pensioners and the rest of the community. It will preserve the freedom of the patient to pick the doctor of his choice at first attendance. It will preserve the freedom of choice of the doctor. It will retain the choice of the doctor that we have now in standard wards in every hospital in Australia. It will allow people to insure separately for private hospital care. If people want private hospital care they will make one conscious decision to insure for it, in the same way as they make one conscious decision to insure for a health scheme now. The scheme will not socialise doctors or nationalise doctors or conscript doctors as the Australian Constitution proscribes such an activity. It will not be the same as the British Medical scheme and it never was. It will lead to a new era in Australia in which both doctor and patient will not have to spend their time worrying about money and accounts. It will not set up a financial barrier between doctor and patient. It will bring a new and enlightened period into health care in this country. The cries of socialism, communism, conscription and everything else we have heard from the opponents of the scheme will have no meaning. In two or three years we will have a health scheme from which no one will want to go back to the old ways. No one will even consider throwing it out because it will be a scheme which we will be proud of and the rest of the world may well envy. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware of the recommendation by the Finance Committee of the Hospital Contribution Fund to raise the salary of one executive from $24,000 a year to $3 1,500 a year, plus an expense allowance of $1,500 and a free car, and that this salary level is similar to executive salary levels in other voluntary health funds? Does not the disclosure of this level of salary and size of increase without reference to members support the Government's proposition that these funds are wasteful, are used as empires by their executives and should be replaced by a central universal fund? 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That inflation which now besets so many countries today and in Australia is now at the rate of 1 4.4 per cent per annum is most seriously affecting and making life intolerable for those least able to take corrective action to maintain their position, namely, pensioners and those now retired living on fixed incomes. 
Whilst the Australian Government is giving effect to its election policy of making $1.50 per week pension increases each Autumn and Spring such actions have been completely nullified by the stated rate of inflation. 
This fact of life impels your petitioners to call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make a cash loading of $5 per week to those pensioners who have little means other than the present inadequate pension eroded by inflation. 
That each Autumn and Spring the increase in social security pension payments be not less than $3 per week to ensure that within a reasonable period the Government's policy pledge to affix all pensions at 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings be achieved. 
In order that money may go to areas of greater need the Tapered Means Test celling of income and assets be frozen. 
To allay the concern of social security recipients as to their future when in 1 975 the means test has been abolished and replaced by a National Superannuation Act that there be an assurance by the Australian Government that the said Act will provide a guaranteed minimum income to social security recipients based on the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation and that of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, namely, the payment of 30 per cent of average weekly earnings adjusted from lime to time in accordance with figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I have great admiration for  Senator Guilfoyle.  At the beginning of her speech I had even more admiration for her because for the first time today it seemed as though someone was going to approach this question on a quiet and philosophical note instead of indulging in all the exaggerated rantings that we heard before  Senator Guilfoyle  commenced to speak. But for too long she has been sitting next to people like  Senator Carrick  and she has caught the virus, because halfway through her speech she started to talk about and hint at conspiracies and economic and political plots affecting people who were carrying cards. Everyone who presently belongs to a medical benefits organisation carries a card. It is a pity  Senator Guilfoyle  went that way.  Her  concept of free competition in the present medical benefits voluntary health scheme is a rather interesting one. Anyone who considers that there is competition between schemes which charge the same rates, which give the same benefits, which have the same forms and which have the same regulations has a peculiar concept of competition, as has someone who refers to referendum results as an indication that the Australian people do not want this proposed health scheme. The two most comprehensive referendums held in this country were held in December 1972 and in May 1974. The result of those referendums or elections put honourable senators and members on this side of the Parliament into power, and the proposed health scheme was part of our policy at those elections. 
I am always amused when members of the Opposition raise the question of civil conscription. We in this Government realise that the Constitution prevents civil conscription, and we agree with that. We are not the party which conscripts people in peacetime. We are not the party whose members, although they are young enough to go and fight in undeclared wars themselves, are willing to send others to go and fight in undeclared wars. We are not the people who will conscript doctors or anybody else. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  is trying to interject. There is a word for the behaviour of people like him which the Acting  Chairman  would not allow me to use. There is a noun to describe people like him, but it would insult Australia's only native canine to use it. 
These Bills produce for the first time a system of health insurance incorporating the principles of social equity, justice and universal coverage which are not present and not possible under the present health scheme. It is because we believe that an affluent society like ours can afford to provide adequate medical care for its citizensthe Constitution confirms our right to do so- that we believe it is our duty to provide this care. Therefore, we believe that adequate medical care comes into the field of social security and, as such, should be funded by a system of progressive taxation, as are all other social services- that is, payment which depends on the ability to pay. In this scheme recognition is made of the private hospitals and the right of people to insure separately for these. But we insist on the right of those who choose to use public hospitals, to do so, without limitations or means test. 
These proposals provide for a change in the method of funding health care in this country and, together with the other proposals for hospital and community care, represent a social reform- a reform to overcome the inefficiencies of the present system and to correct its malapportionment of the taxpayers' money between the private and public sectors and its maldistribution of doctors and health services. The removal of the problem of bad debts alone in poor areas and in country areas will help to solve this problem very quickly. It is because this is a social reformand even then it is not a very radical one- that it has provoked the noisy and, at times, hysterical opposition from the people opposite and others, especially those who have built themselves a privileged niche in the present system. 
The campaign has become vicious and personal, as instanced by the personal attacks on the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  It has also involved the use of the time honoured methods of opposition to reform, namely, the misrepresentation of the proposals and the imputation of sinister motives to those who promote the reform. The Opposition wishes to introduce the element of fear into this debate. It was to his credit that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  saw fit to rebuke those who in the last year have lied, abused and misrepresented in statements which have been quoted by the honourable member for Henry  (Mrs Child).  Rarely, if ever, has so much time, money and paper been used to oppose such a scheme. The Australian Medical Association even introduced to the campaign a former Miss Australia to add sex appeal and to bolster the Opposition campaign. She was a flop. She was donated to the Liberal Party for the purpose of sitting in its beautiful communications centre and teaching people such as the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  to use their home perm kits and to apply their artificial tan without streaking. This is the sort of nonsense that went on. 
But the most virulent opposition to the scheme has been from the General Practitioners Society of Australia. This Society was conceived in the wealthy suburbs of our largest cities and is nourished by the funds of the drug companies and the finance companies which view with alarm this Government's questions on their profits and prices. It is not surprising that they pad their journal with the writings of right wing extremists from overseas but it is very surprising that they consider the Liberal Party a socialist party- a socialist party which cannot be trusted. I am amazed to see sitting on the opposite side a member of the General Practitioners Society. He sits there with these nasty Liberal socialists, Comrade Killen and Comrade Wentworth and the others. During the last election campaign he said he supported the Liberal Party health scheme when, because of his membership of the General Practitioners Society, obviously he did not. But he sits there and consorts with the Opposition and votes for their socialist policies. These people and their ilk proclaim the principle announced last year by the Retail Traders' Association, namely, that a fair price is whatever the market will bear and that they themselves should fix the price. They conveniently forgot that the skills they acquired and wish to be free to sell at the highest possible price were acquired in almost every case at the taxpayers ' expense. 
The second most virulent opposition to the new health scheme has come from the friends of the honourable member for Hotham, the big funds with their $20,000 and $30,000 a year executives, whose boards are made up of people who have vested interests in the business of health, whose constitutions carefully preclude consumer representation on their boards. They spend large sums of money on the media and in supplying help to the Opposition. Not only were they active in the great health debate but also they were successful in having provision made for meaningful consumer and government representation on health funds removed from the Opposition's policy on health, in spite of the opposition of the honourable member for Hotham who leaves to feed himself. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about the false and unreasonable criticism of the Government's proposed health insurance plan. Most of these false criticisms have been centred on the issue of freedom of choice. Mention was made of general practitioner services. In that regard I can do no better than use the words of  Mr Chipp  when he was going through his small '1 ' liberal stage. On 4 October last year he said: 
And I say in fairness that under the Labor scheme, notwithstanding what has been said, you will be able to go to the doctor of your choice insofar as the general practitioner is concerned. 
The pensioner will have his freedom of choice extended to treatment outside a hospital as he can be referred to a specialist in bis surgery. In the public hospitals the choice will be the same as it is now, unless the States which run them change the system. But patients who are now prevented from entering these hospitals because of the means test will have their choice extended. A person who chooses to insure against the possibility of requiring treatment in a private hospital must make one conscious decision to insure, as he does now, to cover any medical expenses. 
It is surprising to hear the Opposition's objection to lack of choice of a specialist in a public hospital. It never concerned the Opposition in that other large field of public health carerepatriation medical services- when it was in power. Perhaps it considered the sick exserviceman unworthy of the choice which is so important to the affluent civilian. The more one looks into the matter the more it seems that the important freedom to the Opposition is that of the consultant to get his fee for service from the patient who is forced, because of the application of the means test, into the private or intermediate ward. I do not believe that the degree of patient care and skill provided by the vast majority of doctors in this country is dependent upon the payment of a fee for service. I think that to suggest that is to insult the increasing number of doctors who opt for salaried positions and who receive salaries for sessional work in hospitals. From experience as a medical practitioner, I know that profit is no stimulus to quality in the medical profession, and the size of the fee bears no relationship to the standard of the treatment. Few doctors outside the General Practitioners' Society in Australia would disagree with me. The greatest benefit of these Bills to the people of this country is that they will remove the financial worry in times of illness. This worry may have a serious effect on the recovery of a patient and may force him back to work before he is fit. 
The basis of this scheme is universal coverage of the cost of medical care and standard ward accommodation. It will remove the second-class status of the pensioner. It will preserve the freedom of choice of the doctor and the patient, and it will allow people to insure against the cost of private hospital care. It will not nationalise or conscript doctors- a statement agreed to by  Mr Chipp  before he reverted to the conservative stance which he takes now. It will remove from the patient and the doctor the worry about the ability to afford treatment and the worry about accounts. It will remove the financial barrier between doctor and patient. The cries of communism, conscription and fascism from the opponents of this scheme have no meaning in this debate. They are desperate cries from those destitute of reasonable argument. I am sorry that the Opposition Parties may get less assistance from the large health funds in future, but there are plenty of other equally wealthy and equally unworthy causes for the Opposition to champion. The basis of the opposition to these Bills is that they are a social reform. The Opposition, being a conservative Opposition, is opposed to almost any sort of social reform which reduces the inequalities in our society. They are pressured by those who have a privileged position in this society because of previous inequalities. This pressure can be seen by the scurrying of a previous honourable member for Barton around the portals of this House at the moment, touting for the Australian Medical Association. All the criticisms of the present scheme are corrected in our proposed health scheme. Some of them were corrected in the hurriedly prepared Liberal Party health scheme produced just before the last election. For the first time the Liberal Party and the Country Party conceded that there were people not covered by the present health scheme, that the scheme was not universal. For the first time they realised that migrants and poor people were not covered by this scheme. So they hurriedly tried to correct their scheme before an election that was of their choosing. Someone interjected and asked what percentage of the people were not covered. That interjection will be of great interest to people who cannot afford to be in the present scheme. The fact that the Opposition parties are quibbling about whether it will cost $500,000, $800,000 or $lm must be of great interest to people who have no cover. This shows the lack of perspective of members of the Opposition parties. The only difference between the scheme proposed by the Opposition and our proposal is that we cannot see any sense in preserving the large voluntary health funds. In the original draft of the Opposition's proposal there was provision for representatives of the contributors to be on the boards of the health funds. In fact a most radical step was suggested- that members of the boards of these funds should be elected by the contributors. However, when the final draft came out, after pressures had been applied and after threats of the withdrawal of election funds, this suggestion was withdrawn from the Opposition's scheme. 
The Labor Party's scheme is a good scheme, a just scheme, a fair scheme. The criticisms of the Opposition generally are a matter of quibbling and have no philosophical basis. We are dealing with a matter of social security. An ex-Prime Minister on the Opposition side agreed a fortnight ago in an article in 'Nation Review' that this was a matter of social security. This legislation will improve health care in this country and will bring justice to it. I recommend that we pass this Bill. 
I have great admiration for  Senator Guilfoyle.  At the beginning of her speech I had even more admiration for her because for the first time today it seemed as though someone was going to approach this question on a quiet and philosophical note instead of indulging in all the exaggerated rantings that we heard before  Senator Guilfoyle  commenced to speak. But for too long she has been sitting next to people like  Senator Carrick  and she has caught the virus, because halfway through her speech she started to talk about and hint at conspiracies and economic and political plots affecting people who were carrying cards. Everyone who presently belongs to a medical benefits organisation carries a card. It is a pity  Senator Guilfoyle  went that way.  Her  concept of free competition in the present medical benefits voluntary health scheme is a rather interesting one. Anyone who considers that there is competition between schemes which charge the same rates, which give the same benefits, which have the same forms and which have the same regulations has a peculiar concept of competition, as has someone who refers to referendum results as an indication that the Australian people do not want this proposed health scheme. The two most comprehensive referendums held in this country were held in December 1972 and in May 1974. The result of those referendums or elections put honourable senators and members on this side of the Parliament into power, and the proposed health scheme was part of our policy at those elections. 
I am always amused when members of the Opposition raise the question of civil conscription. We in this Government realise that the Constitution prevents civil conscription, and we agree with that. We are not the party which conscripts people in peacetime. We are not the party whose members, although they are young enough to go and fight in undeclared wars themselves, are willing to send others to go and fight in undeclared wars. We are not the people who will conscript doctors or anybody else. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  is trying to interject. There is a word for the behaviour of people like him which the Acting  Chairman  would not allow me to use. There is a noun to describe people like him, but it would insult Australia's only native canine to use it. 
These Bills produce for the first time a system of health insurance incorporating the principles of social equity, justice and universal coverage which are not present and not possible under the present health scheme. It is because we believe that an affluent society like ours can afford to provide adequate medical care for its citizensthe Constitution confirms our right to do so- that we believe it is our duty to provide this care. Therefore, we believe that adequate medical care comes into the field of social security and, as such, should be funded by a system of progressive taxation, as are all other social services- that is, payment which depends on the ability to pay. In this scheme recognition is made of the private hospitals and the right of people to insure separately for these. But we insist on the right of those who choose to use public hospitals, to do so, without limitations or means test. 
These proposals provide for a change in the method of funding health care in this country and, together with the other proposals for hospital and community care, represent a social reform- a reform to overcome the inefficiencies of the present system and to correct its malapportionment of the taxpayers' money between the private and public sectors and its maldistribution of doctors and health services. The removal of the problem of bad debts alone in poor areas and in country areas will help to solve this problem very quickly. It is because this is a social reformand even then it is not a very radical one- that it has provoked the noisy and, at times, hysterical opposition from the people opposite and others, especially those who have built themselves a privileged niche in the present system. 
The campaign has become vicious and personal, as instanced by the personal attacks on the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  It has also involved the use of the time honoured methods of opposition to reform, namely, the misrepresentation of the proposals and the imputation of sinister motives to those who promote the reform. The Opposition wishes to introduce the element of fear into this debate. It was to his credit that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  saw fit to rebuke those who in the last year have lied, abused and misrepresented in statements which have been quoted by the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  Rarely, if ever, has so much time, money and paper been used to oppose such a scheme. The Australian Medical Association even introduced to the campaign a former Miss Australia to add sex appeal and to bolster the Opposition campaign. She was a flop. She was donated to the Liberal Party for the purpose of sitting in its beautiful communications centre and teaching people such as the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  to use their home perm kits and to apply their artificial tan without streaking. This is the sort of nonsense that went on. 
But the most virulent opposition to the scheme has been from the General Practitioners Society of Australia. This Society was conceived in the wealthy suburbs of our largest cities and is nourished by the funds of the drug companies and the finance companies which view with alarm this Government's questions on their profits and prices. It is not surprising that they pad their journal with the writings of right wing extremists from overseas but it is very surprising that they consider the Liberal Party a socialist party-a socialist party which cannot be trusted. I am amazed to see sitting on the opposite side a member of the General Practitioners Society. He sits there with these nasty Liberal socialists, Comrade Killen and Comrade Wentworth and the others. During the last election campaign he said he supported the Liberal Party health scheme when, because of his membership of the General Practitioners Society, obviously he did not. But he sits there and consorts with the Opposition and votes for their socialist policies. These people and their ilk proclaim the principle announced last year by the Retail Traders' Association, namely, that a fair price is whatever the market will bear and that they themselves should fix the price. They conveniently forgot that the skills they acquired and wish to be free to sell at the highest possible price were acquired in almost every case at the taxpayers' expense. 
The second most virulent opposition to the new health scheme has come from the friends of the honourable member for Hotham, the big funds with their $20,000 and $30,000 a year executives, whose boards are made up of people who have vested interests in the business of health, whose constitutions carefully preclude consumer representation on their boards. They spend large sums of money on the media and in supplying help to the Opposition. Not only were they active in the great health debate but also they were successful in having provision made for meaningful consumer and government representation on health funds removed from the Opposition's policy on health, in spite of the opposition of the honourable member for Hotham who leaves to feed himself. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about the false and unreasonable criticism of the Government's proposed health insurance plan. Most of these false criticisms have been centred on the issue of freedom of choice. Mention was made of general practitioner services. In that regard I can do no better than use the words of  Mr Chipp  when he was going through his small '1' liberal stage. On 4 October last year he said: 
And I say in fairness that under the Labor scheme, notwithstanding what has been said, you will be able to go to the doctor of your choice insofar as the general practitioner is concerned. 
The pensioner will have his freedom of choice extended to treatment outside a hospital as he can be referred to a specialist in his surgery. In the public hospitals the choice will be the same as it is now, unless the States which run them change the system. But patients who are now prevented from entering these hospitals because of the means test will have their choice extended. A person who chooses to insure against the possibility of requiring treatment in a private hospital must make one conscious decision to insure, as he does now, to cover any medical expenses. 
It is surprising to hear the Opposition's objection to lack of choice of a specialist in a public hospital. It never concerned the Opposition in that other large field of public health carerepatriation medical services- when it was in power. Perhaps it considered the sick exserviceman unworthy of the choice which is so important to the affluent civilian. The more one looks into the matter the more it seems that the important freedom to the Opposition is that of the consultant to get his fee for service from the patient who is forced, because of the application of the means test, into the private or intermediate ward. I do not believe that the degree of patient care and skill provided by the vast majority of doctors in this country is dependent upon the payment of a fee for service. I think that to suggest that is to insult the increasing number of doctors who opt for salaried positions and who receive salaries for sessional work in hospitals. From experience as a medical practitioner, I know that profit is no stimulus to quality in the medical profession, and the size of the fee bears no relationship to the standard of the treatment. Few doctors outside the General Practitioners' Society in Australia would disagree with me. The greatest benefit of these Bills to the people of this country is that they will remove the financial worry in times of illness. This worry may have a serious effect on the recovery of a patient and may force him back to work before he is fit. 
The basis of this scheme is universal coverage of the cost of medical care and standard ward accommodation. It will remove the second-class status of the pensioner. It will preserve the freedom of choice of the doctor and the patient, and it will allow people to insure against the cost of private hospital care. It will not nationalise or conscript doctors- a statement agreed to by  Mr Chipp  before he reverted to the conservative stance which he takes now. It will remove from the patient and the doctor the worry about the ability to afford treatment and the worry about accounts. It will remove the financial barrier between doctor and patient. The cries of communism, conscription and fascism from the opponents of this scheme have no meaning in this debate. They are desperate cries from those destitute of reasonable argument. I am sorry that the Opposition Parties may get less assistance from the large health funds in future, but there are plenty of other equally wealthy and equally unworthy causes for the Opposition to champion. The basis of the opposition to these Bills is that they are a social reform. The Opposition, being a conservative Opposition, is opposed to almost any sort of social reform which reduces the inequalities in our society. They are pressured by those who have a privileged position in this society because of previous inequalities. This pressure can be seen by the scurrying of a previous honourable member for Barton around the portals of this House at the moment, touting for the Australian Medical Association. All the criticisms of the present scheme are corrected in our proposed health scheme. Some of them were corrected in the hurriedly prepared Liberal Party health scheme produced just before the last election. For the first time the Liberal Party and the Country Party conceded that there were people not covered by the present health scheme, that the scheme was not universal. For the first time they realised that migrants and poor people were not covered by this scheme. So they hurriedly tried to correct their scheme before an election that was of their choosing. Someone interjected and asked what percentage of the people were not covered. That interjection will be of great interest to people who cannot afford to be in the present scheme. The fact that the Opposition parties are quibbling about whether it will cost $500,000, $800,000 or $lm must be of great interest to people who have no cover. This shows the lack of perspective of members of the Opposition parties. The only difference between the scheme proposed by the Opposition and our proposal is that we cannot see any sense in preserving the large voluntary health funds. In the original draft of the Opposition's proposal there was provision for representatives of the contributors to be on the boards of the health funds. In fact a most radical step was suggested- that members of the boards of these funds should be elected by the contributors. However, when the final draft came out, after pressures had been applied and after threats of the withdrawal of election funds, this suggestion was withdrawn from the Opposition's scheme. 
The Labor Party's scheme is a good scheme, a just scheme, a fair scheme. The criticisms of the Opposition generally are a matter of quibbling and have no philosophical basis. We are dealing with a matter of social security. An ex-Prime Minister on the Opposition side agreed a fortnight ago in an article in 'Nation Review' that this was a matter of social security. This legislation will improve health care in this country and will bring justice to it. I recommend that we pass this Bill. 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware of the present strike by nursing aides at 2 repatriation hospitals- the Concord Repatriation General Hospital and the Lady Davidson Hospital? If so, what action is proposed concerning these strikes? Will the patients at these hospitals be affected at all by these strikes? 
I present the following petition from 3 10 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  of the Senate and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States-Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Baume  I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of news reports this morning indicating that again parts of the Indian subcontinent face famine in the near future? Can he advise us of any assistance Australia is giving to alleviate this situation or to prevent it arising? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen the recent copy of the magazine 'News Digest International', on the cover of which is a photograph of Opposition members at a function held by supporters of this magazine and in which at pages 10 to 14 there is an article asserting that Henry Kissinger is a KGB agent? Has the Minister received any evidence supporting this assertion either from his own sources or from the Opposition members supporting this organisation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether any progress has been made in the finalisation of the Treaty of Nara which was announced by the Prime Minister some time ago? 
I rise to support the State Grants Bill 1974. 1 oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  The purpose of this Bill- which has been discussed tonight so far as I can remember only by  Senator Everett-  is to provide an extra grant of $ 1 5m for this year to Tasmania, the outcome of which will be that Tasmania will be removed as a claimant State before the Grants Commission. I think it should be emphasised that the grant of $ 15m is not simply a one-year grant. Provision for this amount to be increased in future years, dependent on such things as population increase and wage increase is incorporated in the Bill. It is not simply a one-year grant- a one-shot effort. The importance of the Bill for Tasmania lies in the fact that, as I have stated, it removes from the State the necessity to apply for special grants before the Grants Commission. It is equally important in that it does not affect the ability of the Grants Commission to assist local governmenta desirable reform which was instituted by this Government. 
The necessity for the Tasmanian Government to consider the levels of charges and social services in the so-called 'standard States' before it legislates and applies these taxes- a factor that has been important in Tasmanian legislation- to avoid a negative adjustment by the Grants Commission has been considered a constraint by Premiers, including the previous Liberal Premier,  Mr Bethune.  The Premiers also felt constrained by having to go cap in hand to the Grants Commission explaining why they needed more grants and why they should not receive lower grants. It has made it difficult for the State to progress in the way it wanted to. Although for more than 40 years the system of the grants has helped the States considerably, times have changed. The demands of the States have grown more and more different from what they were before. In fact, problems in each State are frequently different. Freedom to legislate with respect to social security, health matters, transport costs and transport charges has been a very difficult problem for those Tasmanian governments which have been in power. 
New methods of raising revenue have been considered by previous governments. The most publicised, of course, was the notorious consumer tax on cigarettes. This proposition was conceived by a previous Liberal government and was put into effect by a Labor government. It was found to be ineffective. It was a regressive tax with which I did not agree and with which many people did not agree. Out of this arose the present agreement whereby Tasmania can be freed of the constraints that it felt were difficult and which made matters difficult for that State in general. 
Much has been said of this Government's treatment of Tasmania. Indeed, in the debate on this Bill in another place the whole time was spent in denigrating the efforts of the Australian Government in Tasmania. It was heartening to many Tasmanians that the Liberals had suddenly discovered that Tasmania existed. I think it is necessary therefore to make some reference to both the efforts of this Government in Tasmania and some of the efforts made by the previous government. I think firstly we should look at the record of the previous Government- the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government. Acknowledgement of the practice of the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition Government to ignore Tasmania is contained in a statement of the Leader of the Liberal Party in Tasmania,  Mr Bingham,  M.H.A. On his return from the Liberal Party conference this weekend he was quoted as saying: 
There has been a tremendous change in the attitude of the Liberal Party to Tasmania. 
One assumes that he means it is a change for the better. Therefore one assumes that the previous attitude of the Liberal Party was inadequate. The second indication of the fact that the previous Government's attitude to Tasmania was inadequate is best demonstrated, I think, by the attitude of the electors in Tasmania over the years. In 1949 when the Liberal-Country Party Government came to power,  Mr Duthie,  the member for Wilmot, was the lone Labor member from Tasmania in the House of Representatives, and he sat there alone until the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  won the seat of Bass. Then shortly afterwards, in 1956, the year in which the Australian National Line was formed,  Mr Davies  won the seat of Braddon. Some time later  Mr Sherry  won the seat of Franklin, and finally in 1972 the Labor Party had won all seats in Tasmania in the House of Representatives. In May of this year this clean sweep was confirmed. This surely demonstrates the concern that Tasmanians felt at the neglect of the Liberal-Country Party Government. I hope that the attitude of the Liberal Party to Tasmania has changed, but I wonder whether the people of Tasmania can really trust such a change in attitude in a very short time. 
I think that we must put into perspective the treatment that Tasmania has received from this Government compared with the treatment that it received from the previous Government. I believe that under the present Government Tasmania has not been treated ungenerously, but this does not mean that I will not fight for further and more generous treatment. I think that the example relating to transport, which was one of the examples that  Senator Rae  used, is an interesting one because it demonstrates the attitude of the previous Government to Tasmania and the attitude of the previous Government to its own members.  Senator Devitt  has given some figures to illustrate what happened between 1 970 and 1 972, but I will repeat some of them. In August 1970 there was an increase of  2lA  per cent in all Tasmanian general cargo freights. In July 1971 there was an increase of 12V4 per cent in freights between Sydney and Tasmania and an increase of 8 per cent in freights between Melbourne and Tasmania. In August 1972 there was an increase of 25 per cent in freights between Melbourne and Tasmania, caused by the removal of concessions on dense cargo. There was an increase of 12 per cent in freights between Sydney and Tasmania, again due to the removal of concessions on heavy cargoes, and a surcharge of 20 per cent was applied to hazardous cargo. This problem was recognised by all Tasmanian senators, including the Tasmanian Liberal senators who, on a motion moved by  Senator Rae,  moved for the referral of the question of the Tasmanian freight problem to a select committee of the Senate. 
The difference between what happened then and what happened with the recent ANL freight increase is quite significant. The previous Government had no choice but to accept the referral of this question of these freight difficulties to the Senate select committee, but the previous Government did nothing about the matter. It applied no subsidies. In fact, after the committee was formed the previous Government continued to agree to the removal of subsidies on these freight lines. Recently ANL decided to increase its freight rates by 25 per cent. It did this on sound business principles, as it had to do under the Act which we are trying to amend. In fact, what happened was that Tasmanian Labor senators and Tasmanian members of the House of Representatives were justifiably concerned. We immediately went to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who was sympathetic. The Minister, the Tasmanian Labor senators and the Tasmanian members of the House of Representatives went to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and a fortnight later a $2m subsidy was announced. The legislation passed this afternoon will allow this subsidy to be applied. This is the big difference between the attitude of the previous Government and the attitude of this Government to Tasmania. Our Government was responsive to the difficulties facing Tasmania. We did not have to come into the Senate and move motions and amendments in order to get anything done. We got a quick response and, despite the remarks of some Liberal members of the State Parliament in Tasmania, we are not conning anybody; the money will be there. The provision of this money is an interim measure until the Nimmo royal commission reports on Tasmanian freight rates and Tasmanian freight difficulties. 
The reason why it was necessary to set up the Nimmo royal commission to inquire into the freight difficulties facing Tasmania was that the previous 2 reports on this matter- the one of the Senate select committee and the one of the Bureau of Transport Economics- created difficulties and raised questions which had to be answered before some rational solution could be found. It is a sad fact that the first Senate select committee, which was appointed, I think, in 1903, dealt with Tasmanian freight problems and I think that there have been 6 similar inquiries appointed since then. This present royal commission, we hope and pray, will be the last. The reason why the subsidy was applied only to outgoing freights was that the 2 previous reports had stated, firstly, that as far as bulk cargoes were concerned Tasmania was not disadvantaged. The report of the Bureau of Transport Economics pointed out the difficulties in deciding how to apply any sort of a subsidy on inward freights. Many goods coming into Tasmania are subject to a price equalisation scheme which applies all round Australia. Many groceries, tobacco, cigarettes and some cars are subject to this scheme. To apply an overall subsidy would mean that this price equalisation scheme would probably have to be removed, and in many cases the only people who would benefit would be the companies which were sending goods to Tasmania. We hope, and we think, that the Nimmo royal commission will bring forward solutions to the Tasmanian freight problem. 
But this freight problem will also be helped by the expenditure of $55m which this Government is prepared to spend on new boats which will be used for the Tasmanian trade. But Tasmanian freight problems do not relate only to the sea leg across Bass Strait. Freight has to be forwarded at each end of the trip. The Senate select committee report indicated that the cost of freight forwarding at each end represented about SO per cent of the cost of transporting goods from a place in Victoria or New South Wales to a place in Tasmania. Apparently in many cases ANL, in its trips across Bass Strait, has reduced its freight cost to 40 per cent or less of the total freight cost. I think that it is wrong for people to get the impression, and it is wrong for us to give the impression to people in Tasmania, that by reducing ANL's freight rates we will suddenly solve the problem and that all the freight rates will be greatly reduced. I think that the Nimmo royal commission will look at- and we will have to look at- the possibility of allowing ANL to be its own freight forwarding agent or, if that is not possible or desirable, of allowing ANL to contract its own freight forwarding. 
-It was. This matter will have to be decided. But we cannot do things in one hit. It cannot be changed until the agreement finishes, I think in June next year. When it does finish I think it is very desirable that we make some change. Also we have to solve the problem of freighting in Tasmania. There may be some element in the report which suggests that in some way we have to rationalise our port facilities in Tasmania. The solution to Tasmania's freight problems will not come only from the Australian Government. It will not come only from subsidies. It will have to be a combined effort. Tasmanians from all areas will have to combine with the Federal Government to solve this problem which has been with us not for just 5 years or 6 years, as  Senator Bessell  said, but in fact, since Federation and before. Personal abuse, abuse between State and Federal Governments and abuse between various parties will not solve this problem. A lot of co-operation and a lot of thought will be required. Some people may even have to bury some of their differences to solve the problem. 

 Senator Bessell suggested that the reason for the travelling to Tasmania by Ministers of this Government which has gone on since we were elected in 1972 was that we recognised that we were in some difficulty in Tasmania. That is not so. As  Senator Everett  said,  Mr Whitlam  and other Ministers travelled to Tasmania frequently before the election and they have travelled there frequently since the election. If visits of Ministers and other senior members of a party merely reflect a sudden interest in Tasmania, one can only say that it has taken 25 years for the Liberal Party to become at all interested. Despite the gradual erosion of Liberal Party representation over those years and the obvious signs that the Liberal Party might end up with the disastrous result which it obtained in 1972 and 1974, the efforts of  Senator Rae, Senator Marriott, Senator Lillico  and  Senator Wright  were to no avail. I suggest- perhaps immodestly- that the efforts of the 10 present Tasmanian Federal Labor Party parliamentarians bore fruit within a fortnight. Attempts to deride those efforts have been plainly unsuccessful, as is shown by the Bill which was passed this afternoon and by the money which will be coming forward very shortly. 

 Senator Bessell made some remarks about the vegetable processing factory on the north-west coast. In fact he suggested that  Dr Cairns  and, I believe, at another time myself were not being truthful in saying that the amendment to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act would make a difference to the vegetable processing factory. In fact the vegetable processing factory may not come into being; but, as has been explained in this place and in the other place, it is not possible to use the AIDC Act as it stands at the moment to fund this vegetable processing plant. Under the amendment to the AIDC legislation this may be possible. I was at the meeting at La Trobe when  Dr Cairns  said: This may be possible'. I was reported as speaking and I was quoted correctly as saying 'It may be possible'. At least it will give us the opportunity to fund financially sound but not necessarily high profit making industries which may be necessary for the survival of other industries such as the vegetable growing industry in northern Tasmania. We are not making wild and rash promises. This may happen. We hope that it will happen. But without the modification to the AIDC Act it is impossible to see how this could possibly happen. 
In summing up I point out that in some other fields Tasmania has not done as badly as the Opposition in its many attacks on this Government would like us to believe. For instance, per capita Tasmania receives from the Federal Government $572 a year as compared to some $273 a year, I think, in the case of the other States. 
Yes, per head or per capita. I do not object to this. In fact, I do not think that it is enough. Apparently  Senator Rae  does not think it is enough. I hope that he will be able to convince his Party, if it ever gets back as the Government, that that per capita allocation is not enough. I agree with the remarks  Senator Wriedt  made 2 years ago in a Senate Select committee report when he said that the allocation ignores many things. It ignores the fact that Tasmania does not have big Australian Government department offices and that it does not have big defence establishments as some other States have. But what concerns me and what should concern the people of Tasmania is that one of the greatest cries of the Liberal Party, and also of the Australian Country Party, is what it will do if it gets back into power. One of its biggest claims is that it will reduce government spending considerably. In a small State like Tasmania, with a small population which is spread across the State, some forms of social services, health and education cost more than they do in other States. I hope and pray that this does not mean that if a Liberal Government were in office Tasmanian expenditure would be cut drastically. But I cannot see how the Liberal Party could avoid this if it intends to cut Government spending drastically. 
-I am afraid that it has been cut in the past, as  Senator Devitt  said. And it would happen again. For instance, university expenditure by the Australian Government in 
Tasmania this year comes to $20m. This is more than 3 times the amount allocated in the previous 2 years. For colleges of advanced education $14m has been provided, which is about 4 times the allocation of the previous 2 years. There is $2m for technical education which is 3 times the allocation for the previous 2 years. There is $ 1 6m for government and non-government schools, which is 4 times the allocation of the previous 2 years. 
For public hospitals $ 1.6m has been provided. There was nothing in the previous years. The money is to go to meet half the cost of a new Launceston general hospital and to build a new women's hospital in Hobart. There is $2m for community health centres on which money had never been spent before and $3m for the school dental health scheme. This means that Tasmania gets more than 10 per cent of the total allocation for this purpose, although we have only 3 per cent of the population. Aid for housing has risen from $300,000 in 1972-73 to $20m in 1974-75. Recently an extra $2.5m was provided for public housing in the State. These figures show that this Government has not been ungenerous to Tasmania. They show that we are concerned about Tasmania. This does not mean that we are complacent about Tasmania. We have never been complacent and we never will be. The Tasmanian members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives will continue to fight for the necessary subsidies and benefits which this Government can give to a small island State which is disadvantaged in many ways. 
In September 1972, before the election, we were assured by the then Minister for Education and Science and by  Senator Rae  that the removal of the Antarctic Division to Tasmania was impossible and undesirable. In the year following the election this Government after investigation found that it was indeed possible and desirable. Immediately there was great support from  Senator Rae  and other members of the Opposition who a short time before had said that the move was not a good thing. We have not had any complaints from them since. That is one example of how the parliamentary representatives of Tasmania by bringing the relevant facts to the notice of the Government can succeed in getting institutions and other aid for Tasmania. 
This Bill will be of great benefit to Tasmania financially and the present amount of $ 15m will almost certainly be increased in future years. As  Senator Everett  has demonstrated, the amount represents a considerable increase on the provisions of past years. It will also be of benefit to the people and the Government of Tasmania psychologically. The Tasmanian Government will not have to go on behalf of Tasmanians to the Grants Commission to explain how, why and where it spends its money. It will be of great benefit to Tasmania in providing more efficient government. The Tasmanian Government will be able to apply charges, social services, taxes, transport costs and everything else without being concerned about how they compare with those in the standard States. It is a very desirable move that has been advocated by Labor and Liberal Premiers and governments. I commend the Bill and feel that it can do nothing but good. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the public interest in the Bills being introduced in the Tasmanian and South Australian Parliaments at the moment to protect the privacy of individuals, can the Attorney-General clarify for senators the rights of and restrictions on State police in carrying out the practice of telephone tapping? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security and I preface it by pointing out to the Minister that children suffering from cleft lip and palate require orthodontal treatment, in some cases until they are in their teens, and that orthodontal treatment is very expensive. Will the Minister give serious consideration to allowing the cost of orthodontal treatment in these cases to be a legitimate claim on the medical benefits schedule? 
-Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen reviews published recently in the Press of the book 'Every Second Child' by  Dr Archie  Kalokerinos? Is the Minister concerned at  Dr Kalokerinos  's claim that there has been negligence on the part of government departments in investigating the validity of the doctor's theory concerning the effects of vitamin C deficiency on Aboriginal infants? Can the Minister advise whether the Government has investigated  Dr Kalokerinos  's findings? If so, what has been the result of those investigations? 
It is with some trepidation that I follow such articulate gentlemen as our legal friends who have spoken in this debate. But I feel that in view of what has been said I should add a few points. One thing that prompted me to speak was the second reading speech of  Senator Poyser  in which he said that on 6 separate occasions the Senate has voted in favour of Capital Hill. All the arguments have been advanced previously, and I will not go over them; I just go along with them. Really, apart from making some interesting reflections on the document produced by the National Capital Development Commission,  Senator Withers  said very little. But like  Senator Button,  I did some investigations into and some readings of previous debates on the siting of the new and permanent parliament house. It seems that 3 considerations have always been advanced. There was the practical considerationwhether it is more difficult to build the new and permanent parliament house on Capital Hill or on Camp Hill. There is probably not much difference, although some people suggest that it would be a little more difficult to build on Capital Hill. 
The second consideration was the aesthetic consideration. 1 suggest that in this debate only  Senator Button  has referred to that consideration. Two groups of witnesses came along to the inquiries that were held. One group was the architects and the other group was the politicians. In the inquiries only the architects advanced the aesthetic consideration but a third factor has become obvious tonight. It was pointed out by  Senator Button  and  Senator James  McClelland, and it was again pointed out by  Senator Missen.  This is the psychological factor. One needs to look at the submissions by the architects- the socalled experts- and the submissions by the politicians which were made to those inquiries. The submissions by the architects were concerned with aesthetics and practical considerations of the building. The submissions by the politicians contained this psychological factor that we must dominate. One honourable senator who is not present tonight- I will not name him- made a submission to an inquiry saying: 'I favour Capital Hill'. 
It was said that Parliament should dominate the Public Service and that it was inconceiveable that anybody should dominate Parliament. That line of thinking was reflected in all the submissions.  Senator Missen  said tonight that the important thing is that we must not be dominated by other people, we must dominate them.  Senator James  McClelland wisely interjected and pointed out that you do not do that by setting a building on a hill like a castle or a church, standing over everybody, dominating people. This is a democracy. If we had a monarchy or a dictatorship such as that of Mussolini, undoubtedly it would be suitable to have a mausoleum up on a hill.  Senator Button's  arguments about the aesthetic and practical value of Camp Hill impressed me as did  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's points. I think we have to be wary of putting a building on a hill. It would be very difficult to add to in the future, as undoubtedly will be necessary. Canberra is remote enough from the rest of the country as it is. It is tremendously remote. The public servants who live here are remote from the rest of the community and their problems. It would be a great mistake to have us and our advisers stuck up there, in an even more remote position. For aesthetic, practical and psychological reasons the new and permanent Parliament House should go on Camp Hill where Burley Griffin wanted it. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory: Is he aware that one of the conditions of employment of public servants in the Northern Territory who are recruited from the rest of the continent is that they shall be entitled every 2 years to the return air fare to any capital city in Australia except Hobart? Will the Minister make inquiries into the reason for this discrimination against Tasmanians with the hope of having such discrimination removed? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer tell us whether permission has been given for a foreign company, Ambreeds, to take over a New South Wales artificial breeding company? If so, was the Australian artificial insemination industry association asked for its views? Were the State and Australian Departments of Agriculture consulted? What was their advice? What were the conditions which led to the approval of this takeover? 
-I wish to speak briefly on the Family Law Bill. I commend the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for his patience and persistence with this measure over the years and also for his willingness to accept amendments to improve the Bill. Credit should be given to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which worked so hard and helped all of us so much to understand and to improve the Bill. I give credit to all the previous speakers in this debate for the compassionate and objective way they have spoken. I wish that the public debate on the Bill had been equally compassionate and unemotional but I suppose that that is asking a bit too much.  Senator Baume  mentioned one group which persisted in using cituperation and all sorts of tactics in an attempt to prevent this Bill even being debated. 
I have read a newspaper article which announced that this Bill is an evil socialist plot which may be disturbing to honourable senators opposite who support it. Today I had a rather offensive telephone call in which I was told that we were perpetrators of promiscuity. The caller used other alliterative phrases which I am sure I would not be allowed to use here if I wished to do so. I think we can expect this sort of public debate on such an emotional issue. The same sort of reaction occurred to the original Matrimonial Causes Bill. Some honourable senators will remember the personal abuse received by the present  President  of the Senate. I am sure that those people who condemned him for voting the way that he did then would no longer wish to go back to our old divorce laws. 
I have no intention of canvassing all the clauses of this Bill which were so very well considered and looked after by our legal friends and some others. However, I think it is worth while giving reasons why I am likely to support the amended Bill. Probably the most important change to me, and to many of the opponents of the Bill the most objectionable change, is the replacement of the concept of fault in the present law with the one ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. Many speakers in this debate have pointed out that this is an extension of the changes brought about when the present matrimonial causes law was introduced. It introduced the concept of divorce with no fault after 5 years of separation. At the time the change was predicted to bring about the dissolution of society and the opening of the divorce floodgates.  Senator Missen  cited figures yesterday showing that that has not happened and that the use of that means of acquiring divorce has diminished in the last few years. Although this Bill does away with the concept of fault in the situation of divorce it does not completely do away with the concept of fault and or responsibility in the amendments, as I see them, when maintenance and custody of children are involved. These sorts of amendments which aim particularly to protect wives I will certainly support. 
The Bill also has very important provisions for counselling and attempts at reconciliation. It can in no way be considered a bill for the production of quickie, Reno or Mexican types of divorce, which seems to be the worry of many people. I believe that a basic and serious misconception is held by some opponents of change in these laws. The misconception seems to be that the divorce rate in the community is a direct measure of unhappiness in marriage or a measure of morality or immorality in the community. Some people assume that in the past all the unhappy marriages ended in divorce and that the remainder were all happy marriages. It is an absurd proposition considering expense, legal barriers and the personal denigration and public disapproval which has hampered divorce proceedings in the past. 
One would assume from the argument of those people that the Victorian era with its low divorce rate was a period of unparalleled marital bliss, but today few men and women would wish to return to those days when a wife was frequently just one of her husband's chattels. Like  Senator Baume  I have had experience in my professional life dealing with problems associated with divorce. I have seen otherwise decent people resort to lying, hypocrisy and personal denigration to end a disastrous relationship. I have seen lawyers, who have sworn to uphold justice, knowingly connive in this sort of charade. 
The most distressing side effect to me has been the bitterness and personal hatred, which has split family and friends, arising out of the legal and psychological warfare which seems to have been associated with prolonged divorce proceedings. If this Bill partly reduced this distress I would support it, and I believe it considerably reduces this distress. I have also seen the misery of the unhappy marriage in which one or other partner, usually the woman, is unable to escape from this disastrous partnership for social, economic or psychological reasons. This Bill may help some of these people but probably not enough of them, because, as other honourable senators have pointed out, marital breakdown is a social and psychological problem, not a legal one. 
I believe that the provisions in the Bill in relation to counselling and guidance will help and will show the way in the future. The change from the extended biological family we had in the past to the more fragile nuclear family, the increase in the breadth of education for women in our society and the changing role of opportunities for women have all made marriage a more stressful situation. But I cannot see that harsh, inequitable divorce laws, and a situation of warfare in law courts where personal recriminations are the norm, will do anything to strengthen the marriage bond. I sympathise with  Senator Baume  and  Senator James  McClelland who both made the observation that it would be perhaps better to make the marriage contract harder to achieve. 
If they can produce a fair and reasonable method of doing this, I would support them. But in the meantime the future of stable marriage, I think, lies in education in human relationships, in education in the home, in education in the schools, and in our whole way of life. This is where our emphasis should lie before the years of breakup. 
I cannot see, as some people apparentyl assume, that retaining the present divorce laws will make any difference to the situation. I cannot see how the passage of this Bill will hinder any such program to improve our human relationships and perhaps prevent more marriage breakdowns. This Bill deals with the legal problems associated with divorce in a more humane manner than in my view has ever been legislated for before. The setting up of a family court, which  Senator Durack  mentioned, will, one hopes, remove the sort of stigma of criminality which was associated with divorce proceedings in some people's minds. The provision of counselling services will help some marriages which are not beyond saving. The reduction in the period of separation necessary before divorce can be obtained will prevent a lot of bitterness and frustration which I think all of us have seen and which certainly those of us in the legal profession have seen very frequently 
I look forward to the Committee stage of this Bill. From what I have seen and from what I have heard from my colleagues, the maintenance provisions and the provisions concerned with the custody of children will be explained and will be made clear to us all. From the discussions which I have had, I think that I can support those provisions. I am sure that these aspects will be adequately covered. The problems of marital breakdown are enormous, and they are not solved by this Bill. I have not heard anyone who is associated with this Bill pretend that they will be solved by it. But I believe that the principles behind the Bill are a giant step forward in our social history. 
I repeat that I remember well the bitterness with which the proposals which brought in the present Matrimonial Causes Bill were attacked. I remember the predictions of the end of marriage, of the floodgates opening, of people being divorced every second year. There were even predictions of impending social dissolution and destruction of our civilisation and all sorts of things like that. As I said before, I do not think any of those people who made those statements in 1959 or 1966, except the most rigid and the most doctrinaire, would want to go back to the days of divorce as we had it before that time. I feel sure that after the Committee stage and after the amendments have been explained and passed this will be an excellent Bill which will be a credit to this Parliament. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (9.35)-The Family Law Bill 1974 is a Bill in relation to which any honourable senator will, as we say in parliamentary language, have a completely free vote. All honourable senators will have an open vote on the Bill; they are not obliged to vote according to a decision taken by their Party. So when honourable senators cast their votes they will be doing so completely, absolutely and utterly according to their own views and their own approach to the Bill. I have a view about the Bill and I feel that I have a personal obligation to express that view. I believe, as does  Senator Grimes  who preceded me in the debate, that the Bill has been dealt with with restraint in this place, and I certainly will do that myself. Nevertheless, I would be failing in my duty if I did not express the views that I have in relation to the Bill. In due course I will be moving an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. Before I formally move that amendment I want to talk in some generality, but perhaps before I do move that amendment to the Bill the terms of the amendment could be circulated to honourable members, if that conforms with your requirements,  Mr Deputy President. 
Before I move more particularly to my amendment I want to talk in terms of the overall pattern of the Bill, because I think that my amendment really contains the thrust of some of the things that I need to say. I shall address my remarks to the Bill in the form in which it stands as a document of the Parliament at the present time. I do not choose to talk about some possible amendments that somebody may move at the Committee stage and which may be agreed to or not be agreed to. We must debate this Bill in the form in which it has been circulated, and not in relation to some prospective amendments which might emerge if it is considered in Committee. In my view, if the Bill is passed by the Senate in the form in which it stands at the present time- it was, of course, put down by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)-  it will be to many people, including young people and people who may wish to marry in the future, a threat to the sanctity and ultimate security of marriage. 
The Bill removes the existing grounds for the dissolution of marriage which are provided for in the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1966 and substitutes a single no-fault ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. In certain circumstances I am choosing my words when I say that- if this Bill as it is circulated becomes law, I believe that it will encourage some young people to regard marriage as an easy-come easy-go thing into which they can enter. The overwhelming majority of the community in this land of ours wants to preserve marriage. We have to live with our divorce laws, but the point I want to make is that the overwhelming mass of the Australian community wants to preserve marriage as a sacred ceremony and as a contract. They want marriage to remain as an honourable estate. Perhaps I could paraphrase some of the beautiful lines which we find in the marriage ceremonies as they are conducted, I think, by all denominations. Marriage is an honourable estate, not to be taken inadvisedly, lightly or wantonly. I know that to some this may sound corny but it represents the conditions to which people who marry in church still adhere in this day and age. Indeed those conditions are adhered to by those who undertake a civil marriage. 
Marriage is not to be entered upon wantonly. It is to be entered upon reverently, discreetly, advisedly and soberly. We all know the famous words 'in sickness and in health '. It may be funny to the Attorney-General but it is the way in which I was married and it is the way in which thousands of people still get married. Thank God for that. I can only speak as I feel on this matter because there is to be an open vote. I would be failing if I did not say what I had in my heart. I believe that marriage is undertaken on the basis of forsaking all others. I think the famous words are: 'till death do us part'. I am prepared to accept that those who get married other than in a church, when they enter into this contract, sincerely and faithfully accept this condition of the union. The contract is voluntarily entered into between one man and one woman for life. 
It is true that the law of our land very properly has to provide grounds for divorce. I do not need to canvass those grounds here. We are all aware of them. Briefly they are adultery, desertion and separation for 5 years. I think  Senator Grimes,  who preceded me in this debate, said that the period of 5 years separation was not regarded as a fault ground of separation. Other grounds for divorce are habitual cruelty and, I think, bestiality. This Bill eliminates the concept of matrimonial fault. It makes the contract of marriage more easily terminated by a single act of one of the parties. Because the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  was not present when I made this point earlier, I mention that we are talking about the Bill as it is before the Senate not in terms of any projected amendment because we are still in the second reading stages of the debate. 
I turn now to an extreme absurdity which is contained in the Bill. In relation to the single no fault condition in the Bill there could be, regrettably in my mind, a circumstance where a marriage could take place and be almost immediately consummated and the conditions for a separation could be established by one of the parties almost within a matter of days. Even though this period of separation is on the basis of 12 months, or some other term which may be suggested, the period contained in the Bill is completely inadequate. Of course, we have the second absurdity that the no fault separation can be due to an act by one of the parties which takes place while both parties remain within the one home. Provided the conditions of the Bill were observed, the separation could take place within the home. I could think of nothing more humiliating, more degrading or more calculated to do irreparable harm to the contract of marriage than provisions for such a separation. So I hold the view- as I have said I feel obliged to say this-that the single no fault proposal should in fact not stand in its own right. 
This no fault proposition takes away the fundamental responsibility of the parties to make the marriage endure. That is my complete feeling in relation to that provision. Honourable senators who have spoken for the Bill and others who have some reservations believe that marriage requires a lot more than the glamour and all the other things that precede the union. It needs understanding on behalf of the parties. It needs the parties to be thoughtful to one another, to be tolerant to one another, to be patient with one another and to attempt to be compatible. The partners have to learn to live with one another in terms of habits, language and their inclinations in relation to behaviour. They require adjustments to make a success of marriage- adjustments which in fact may enter a whole field of areas which I do not need to canvass here because I am sure all honourable senators understand them. I believe those conditions for a successful marriage are more asserted in the young than is inherent in those of us who are in the older brackets. With all the experience, judgment, efforts to co-operate, and all the love and affection that can be present between husband and wife, there is a necessity for adjustments in living. 
Clause 26, which contains the thrust of the Bill and which I believe is the gravamen of the whole 
Bill relies on this one condition- no fault separation for a period of 12 months. It is something which could be carried out, conforming to the requirements of the legislation, as we have it in front of us; yet we could have the horrific situation of people living in the one home who could be regarded as being separated under the Bill. 
I read in the paper this morning a letter which was signed by the Rev. Alan Walker, superintendent of the Central Methodist Mission in Sydney. In fairness to him, I say that he dealt with the pros and the cons and he brought out the good points in relation to certain aspects of the Bill and also criticism of the Bill. But in relation to my argument about the main thrust and the gravamen of the Bill he said: 
However, the heart of the Family Law Bill is weak, even dangerous. 
He was referring to this particular no fault clause. There have been strong statements made for the defeat of the Bill. Here again, I think that one could deal with many views of various people who have advocated the defeat of the Bill. I have in my hand a letter signed by  His  Eminence, Cardinal Freeman, Archbishop of Sydney- a Roman Catholic Cardinal of Sydney- and  His  Grace, Archbishop Loane of Sydney, who is the head of the Anglican Church in New South Wales. Having regard to their position in the community I think it is fair that I should read what they have said in relation to this Bill. In a letter addressed to the editor of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 10 September they stated: 
We wish to draw attention to certain basic changes which will be made to the nature of the marriage contract if the Family Law Bill 1974 becomes law. 
Marriage is now, in the eyes of the law and of the Church, the voluntary union of one man and one woman to the exclusion of all others for life. From the Christian standpoint, this union ought not to be terminable during the lifetime of the marriage partners. From the broader viewpoint of law, it can only be terminated by due legal process when the Court, representing the interests of the community, determines accordingly. 
So, they acknowledge the reality of divorce laws. The letter continues: 
The Family Law Bill, by sections 26, 27 and 28, effects a fundamental alteration in the nature of the marriage contract by making it voluntarily terminable by either party to the marriage, even when one party abandons the other against his or her will. 
The Bill also effects a fundamental alteration in the obligations of the parties of the marriage contract towards each other. Section51 (1) of the Bill, which is significantly different from Section 51 of the 1973 Bill, effects this in two ways:- 
1 ) The duty of a husband to maintain his wife may be removed. 
A duty to maintain her husband may be imposed on the wife. 
The final paragraph states: 
For these as well as other reasons, we are opposed to the Family Law Bill which has been introduced to the Senate by the Attorney-General and hope that it will be rejected by both Houses of Parliament. 
I could pick up references from a whole variety of people and organisations who have written to the Press and who have expressed themselves on this subject. Indeed, they have written to parliamentarians. I am sure that all members of Parliament have received arguments on the pros and cons of this legislation. But the fact is that there is a group of people within the community- petitions to this effect have been presented in the Parliament- which suggests that this Bill as it now stands should be rejected. I am prepared to acknowledge that apart from clause 26 which has been referred to, there are other provisions in the Bill some of which, I believe in certain circumstances, could be incorporated into a matrimonial causes Bill. There are other provisions in the Bill that I find completely unacceptable and these urgently need further examination, examination beyond the limited examination that was made of them by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I will make some reference to that, subject to time, in a short while. I find great difficulty in accepting some of the proposals particularly in relation to the wife who is wholly dependent on her husband and, indeed, in the final analysis in relation to the welfare of children. I propose to move an amendment to the Bill that will seek its deferment. It is proper to point out that as at today some 82 petitions containing the signatures of 5,520 people have been presented in the Senate asking for the deferment of the Bill. Today I received a telegram from  His  Grace, Archbishop Little of Melbourne. As I understand it, he is the Head of the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic faith in Melbourne. The telegram is addressed to me and states: 
I would support strongly suggestion to defer consideration of Family Law Bill for 6 months to enable interested people to examine report of Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs presented 2 weeks ago. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'this Bill be postponed until the first sitting day of the Senate in 1 975, in order that- 
full and proper consideration can be given by senators and all other interested persons to the report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, tabled in the Senate on15 October; and 
full and adequate opportunity be available for all interested persons to consider the details of the Bill and the possible or likely effects of its implementation, if carried. 
I understand that copies of the amendment have been circulated to honourable senators. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Marriott)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
However we must, in good conscience, speak out against the radical changes proposed in the new Family Law Bill 1974, and ask for six months' delay in any further debate on it, so that the clauses of the Bill and the extensive amendments proposed by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, can be properly and responsibly assessed. 
In this regard we are attaching a submission which points out, amongst other things: 
This is a matter to which I feel I must make reference because the interim report is now a public document that everybody is able to read. The letter goes on: the Interim Report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs appears to give a false impression of the  Hon. Mr Justice  Selby's view of irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a single ground of divorce. 
I will come back to that in a moment or two. The letter continues: the evidence taken by the Standing Committee with regard to the Family Law Bill, 1974, appears to have been taken in camera, thus putting it out of the reach of Parliament and the public, and therefore being inconsistent with the concept of Open Government. there' are likely to be far-reaching changes in the structure of marriage and society if the Bill is passed in its present form. the full implications of the setting up of the Australian Family Court are not yet realized. Proper research and investigation is necessary to see that any such Court does not overlap and undermine already existing facilities. 
Other points are made that I do not need to read. However, as I have said, any honourable senator who wishes to read this letter subsequently is at liberty to do so. It goes on to deal with  Mr Justice  Selby's evidence. As the Senate is dealing with something which is within its own perimeter, as it were, I think I should read part of what is said: 
Several persons are cited as supporting that view and extracts from their evidence quoted. The  Hon. Mr Justice  Selby, Chief Judge of the Family Law Division of the N.S.W. Supreme Court is one of the persons cited as apparently supporting that view. 
However examination of the evidence given to the Committee by  Mr Justice  Selby indicates that he does not support that view, and indeed supports the opposite. 
On being approached on 10th October, 1974, in regard to this apparent conflict between his remarks quoted in the Interim Report of 24th September, 1974, and his original evidence, his Honour states: 
I propose now to read the quotation contained in the letter of what the judge is reported to have stated: 
I have consistently advocated a combination of grounds providing for dissolution of marriage where the Court is satisfied that the marriage has broken down but also providing for such dissolution on the petition of a person against whom specified matrimonial offences have been committed. 
The portion of my answer which has been quoted in paragraph 17 of the Interim Report does appear to conflict with the submissions which I made and which represent my view. The Interim Report conveys the false impression that I held the opposite view. This false impression could be reinforced by the fact that my remarks are cited amongst those of several others who are quoted as advocating irretrievable breakdown as the sole ground for divorce. 
I have looked at the Senate transcript of evidence and have the interim report in front of me. I say no more than that it is apparent both from what is attributed to the judge and from the evidence of our own parliamentary documents that there is a misrepresentation. Because my time is running out I want to go back to my main theme. This new virtually single ground for divorce, the no-fault ground resting only on the break-up of the matrimonial home, standing in isolation as the ground for divorce, has in it an inherent risk that it could prejudice in some circumstances the concept of and adherence to the marriage contract. 
I believe that not enough organisations and not enough people, other than lawyers, who have constant contact with matrimonial affairs and the break-up of marriages have been consulted. I particularly refer to people in the church organisations. Do not let it be thought that the only people who have anything to do with matrimonial affairs are in the legal profession. They are consulted very properly when there are break-ups or threatened break-ups of marriages, but there are people in Australia, and in any country- people in the church, people in charity bodies and people helping others, who have a very constant day to day concern for and contact with marriage. In the short time that we have had to deal with this Bill and look at the report of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, there are people who are saying: 'Please defer it; let us take a little bit more time '. 
I am suggesting that because of the mechanics of the Senate the Bill should be deferred until the first day of sitting next year. If the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  does not want to deal with it on the first day of sitting next year he could bring it forward on the second, third or fourth day or any day thereafter. He is not obliged to do it, but we are asking him to hold the Bill until at least the first day of sitting in 1975 so that all those people of good heart who want to do everything possible to preserve, build and maintain marriage when it is under threat will have an opportunity better to examine the Bill. Who knows- it may well be that if that is done there will be, as there has been with some other Bills, an opportunity for further adjustment and further amendment which will make the Bill meet more appropriately the wishes in the minds and hearts of so many thousands of people. 
We are all aware of the hurt and suffering of people who have to go through a break-up of marriage, but, whatever else we do, let us not prejudice the marriages that survive by what we are trying to do for the unfortunate marriages that have failed. We have to make certain that whatever we do will not prejudice marriage, and I say that because I believe it. This is an open vote. People can say that I am right off the target if they like. They are entitled to say that. But that is what I believe. There is a group in the community, including the leaders of our churches, which believes that this Bill should be defeated. There is another huge section of the community which says: 'Let us have some deferment'. And, in fairness to the Attorney-General, there are some in the community who want this Bill passed quickly. My views are clearly expressed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen Press reports that the credentials of the Phnom Penh Government as the 
Government of Cambodia to the United Nations will be challenged by the supporters of the Sihanouk-led regime in exile? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether this is so? Will he inform us also what Australia's position will be when this question is put to the General Assembly? 
-Has the Attorney-General seen again this morning Press reports on the possibility of the setting up of private army and vigilante groups by certain ex-service organisations? Will the Minister clarify for the Senate and for these gentlemen their legal position which one assumes would be a danger to the principles of rule of law in this country? 
I rise to speak very briefly. I wish first of all to say that when the debate was initially held on the setting up of the estimates committees I had some misgivings as to our attitude and whether these committees should be set up but having heard the manner in which the report of Senate Estimates Committee B has been turned into a political football this afternoon by  Senator Greenwood  I have no doubt that our Party was right. I wish to clarify one point which  Senator Carrick  brought up. It is true, I think, that the statement in the report of this Committee that we were disappointed at the lack of information on certain items from the Department of Foreign Affairs did arise out of questions that I asked and indeed  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack asked about Australia's expenditure at the United Nations. But neither  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack nor myself was particularly questioning the amounts spent, whether they were too large or too small. We were concerned about how Australia's contribution to the various United Nations funds was assessed. As has been said, no one at the Committee hearings could give us a clear picture and it is apparent from talking to officers in the 
Department since that contributions are assessed in different ways according to the purpose of the funds. 
I was interested in this. I still am interested in this and I will still look for this information. I am sure that I will get it. Some of this information is in the report. Being interested in this subject, I looked at the Hansard reports of the same Committee for previous years, and I found that this was the first time that this question had been asked. This may be one of the reasons that the specific person from the Department was not present. He probably sat there each year waiting for someone tq ask the question. For some reason someone new on the Committee asked the question. We will easily obtain the answers. We could probably more appropriately obtain the answers in the Senate. In fact I have asked for further answers to those questions that were asked at the Estimates Committee. 
I was surprised by  Senator Carrick  's remarks about the Minister for Foreign Affairs because I can remember one of his colleagues on the Committee commending the Minister at the end of the sessions of the Committee for the way he had conducted himself. This Committee went conscientiously about its work. We saw ways in which we thought the functioning of this Department could improve, and we put them in our report. We hope that they will improve. When on the last day that the Committee sat we decided to put this matter in the report one of the members of the Opposition on the Committee pointed out that it was not the first time it had happened; it had been happening for years and years. Our minor criticisms, our suggestions for improvement, are being used in typical fashion by  Senator Greenwood  in a paltry political argument in this place. 
-Did the Minister for Agriculture hear the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  commenting on the radio program 'PM' last Friday about JapaneseAustralian trade? Does he agree with the Premier's statement that Japan is buying meat from Tasmania and New Zealand and if Japan wants Queensland minerals it has to switch its beef purchases to Queensland? Do such statements do anything to improve Japan-Australia trading relations? In fact do they do anything to improve relations between Queensland and Tasmania? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the attack on  Mr Charles  Jones, the Minister for Transport, by  Sir Reginald  Sholl, the Royal Commissioner inquiring into airline services in Western Australia? Is he the same  Sir Reginald  Sholl who, in the infamous  Sir Richard  Stawell Oration in 1970, expressed the view that the anti- Vietnam war movement in the United States of America was a plot by the Jewish supporters of Israel and who, in that oration and at meetings sponsored by the League of Rights, consistently expresses opposition to liberal attitudes generally? Is it not likely that his criticism of the Minister is based on political and philosophical differences rather than legal reasons? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. It concerns the independent inquiry into repatriation, the cost of which is reported to be $500,000. Have any of the major changes in the repatriation field in the last 2 years been the result of proposals put forward by the inquiry? Does the Minister consider that the expenditure on the inquiry has been justified? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Minister's statement 2 weeks ago in which he revealed that the airline industry, namely Ansett Airlines of Australia and TransAustralia Airlines, had recommended the closing of Wynyard and /or Devonport airports in northwestern Tasmania. If the major airlines are reluctant to operate from these airports, which are the eighth and tenth busiest in Australia outside the capital cities, will the Minister make inquiries to ascertain whether East- West Airlines Ltd would be willing to take over these services? If it is, will the Minister facilitate the takeover. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to the report of the statement by  Mr Snedden  in Tasmania 1 1 days ago that the Liberal Party, if returned to government, would consider extending the Royal Flying Doctor Service to King and Flinders Islands? Will the Minister, for the benefit of honourable senators,  Mr Snedden  and his Tasmanian advisers, advise us of the situation with regard to the Flying Doctor Service and these Islands? 

 - Senator Guilfoyle has outlined the functions of the Bill and has pointed out how the Bill repeals the Sheltered Employment Assistance Act and the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act and replaces them. It represents an evolution in the development of our care of the handicapped, a system which I believe was largely started by  Mr W.  C. Wentworth when he was the Minister for Social Services. For all my philosophical differences with him, I recognise him as a man of great enlightenment in this field. We are not repealing and replacing these Acts because they are unsatisfactory but because they do not quite fit our ideas and, I am sure after hearing  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Opposition's ideas of the assistance we should give. There has been great development in sheltered workshops, to the extent that some of them have become very viable industries. One can think of Bedford Industries Vocational Rehabilitation Association Incorporated in South Australia and others in other States that are a great advance in giving handicapped people a sense of fulfilment and a sense of achievement in society so that they can feel that they are not so very different from anyone else and that with very little help and rehabilitation they can get somewhere and achieve something. 
I believe that in the past there has always been a tendency to take a simplistic approach to the handicapped and to divide the whole community into 2 groups- the normal and the handicapped. Out of this approach has arisen the idea that we must build accommodation and workshops- but particularly accommodation- to cater for the more severely handicapped. However, we have left out the group that is less severely handicapped which with very little rehabilitation and a modicum of help could lead fairly independent lives in the community. The psychological effect on these people in the past has been very severe because people who have not a great handicap have had to be accommodated and have had to work and train with those who are very severely handicapped. They have reached the stage at which they feel different and isolated in the community. As  Senator Guilfoyle  said, in the past this field has been almost confined to the voluntary organisations and the dedicated few. These groups are owed a debt of gratitude by both the handicapped and the whole community. Their attention to this problem and their development of solutions to the problem of the handicapped should be recognised by us all. In the 1970s they cannot go on alone. This is the reason that the Government in this Bill provides for aid to be given directly to these organisations. 
We hope that by providing this aid we will be able to increase the flexibility of the aid to the handicapped and provide a variability in accommodation for them so that the problems that we have had in the past of having too rigid a form of accommodation and rehabilitation will be overcome. One problem, although it can be partly overcome by this Bill, will not be overcome. That is the tendency we have had in the past in all the States to draw a rigid line at the age of 16 yearsbetween the time when persons can be accommodated in a home for handicapped children and after the age of 16 years when they must be accommodated in a home for handicapped adults, if such homes exist. Frequently they have not existed. Quite recently I came across a disturbing case of a 16-year-old boy who was working in a sheltered workshop in a capital city, who was accommodated in a hostel that was suitable for handicapped children- not severely handicapped children- who turned 16 and who because of various circumstances could not go home. He had to be accommodated at the local mental hospital because there was nowhere else for him to go. In being accommodated at the local mental hospital he was uprooted from the environment that he liked and in which he was advancing at the sheltered workshop. This was not the fault of the people who had to put him there. This was not the fault of his parents. This was not the fault of the people who ran the institution. This was the fault of the whole system because we have not provided accommodation for these people in the grey area who are no longer children but perhaps not yet adults. 
I feel that this rigidity of approach must give way to a flexibility in which accommodation, ranging from almost the hospital type to hostels, flats and bed sitters, must be provided for handicapped children. I hope with the increased aid that is given in this Bill and the increased aid that I hope will be given in the future that the voluntary organisations especially and perhaps the State governments will be able to extend the facilities particularly in accommodation. This is very important for those who live in rural areas and those who live in small country towns who must go to the cities or the big country towns where the training and the sheltered workshops are available. It is just not economically or practically feasible for these people to be trained in the small towns from which they come. This Bill goes some way to improving the system, but we still have a long way to go. I think we all must remember that the increasing sophistication of modern life and scientific knowledge have benefited those of us who have no handicaps, but the associated complexity of life has disadvantaged many people and made life very difficult for them. We must use some of the benefits that we have gained to assist our less fortunate brothers and sisters. I commend the Bill to the Senate, but I think we all recognise that this is just another step in the evolution of our care. If we can continue to assist voluntary organisations and others in developing care for the handicapped we will improve their lot and improve society as a whole. 
I share  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's concern about this matter. Can  Senator Withers  or  Senator Poyser  tell us what other buildings, apart from the High Court, have reached the documentation stage? Are there buildings about which we do not know that are in the documentation stage and which will mushroom up around us without either House of the Parliament being a bie to do anything a bout it? 
We are discussing a Bill which provides a loan of $1.4 15m to the Tasmanian Government to purchase the 'Straitsman' and to provide a permanent and regular shipping operation to King Island. I am pleased that the Opposition is not opposing the Bill. Like  Senator Everett,  I am disappointed at the tone raised by the Opposition in the debate in this place and in the other place. I am disappointed that so many red herrings should have been drawn across the Agreement. All of them have been settled by  Senator Everett.  I am disappointed that the debate in this place should be used as a vehicle for a personal attack on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and that the debate in the other place was used for a personal attack on  Mr Davies. 
-We know that  Senator Rae  is very sensitive on the issue of transport for King Island and Tasmania in general, just as he is very sensitive on the issue of education. Those of us who were around during the last election campaign know why. Last night he extended his speech to include remarks on the alleged neglect of Tasmanian shipping problems as well as King Island shipping problems by this Government. In fact he used the word 'dilatory ' to describe the actions of the present Government. I believe that is an extraordinary expression to use in view of the former government's record. As  Senator Everett  demonstrated, the former Government was dilatory and obstructive in allowing the Straitsman' to lie idle for 6 months and in giving no assistance- not even a loan, a promise, a guarantee or anything else- to the company in its liquidity problems.  Senator Rae  has told the Senate of the committee- composed of himself,  Senator Wright  and  Senator Townley-  which investigated the shipping problems of King Island. He knows that on King Island the thing that is remembered about that committee is the remark by  Senator Wright  that the warden of King Island was a veritable ignoramus. This was the standard of comment that came from that committee, and it is no surprise that nothing came out of it. 
We have heard also a petulant apologia on how the good senator asked an endless number of questions and wrote an endless number of letters on the subject when he was in government, but  Senator Rae  knows that the people of Tasmania know that all the words that were written and spoken during the 23 years that the Opposition Parties were in government mean nothing, and that it is the actions that flow from the words that bring results and satisfy the people. The people showed this in the last election.  Senator Everett  demonstrated that by removing the subsidy on the King Island shipping service the previous Government was obstructionist and dilatory as far as shipping to Tasmania was concerned. It was dilatory and obstructive in many other ways. From 1970 to 1972 it indulged in a series of actions that disadvantaged the whole Tasmanian shipping situation as well as the King Island shipping situation. In 1970 and 1971 the freight rates to Tasmania were increased by  121A  per. cent; subsidies on dense cargo were removed, resulting in a 25 per cent increase in freight rates between Sydney and Tasmania; heavy cargo concessions were removed, resulting in a 22 per cent increase; and surcharges were imposed on hazardous cargo, resulting in a 20 per cent increase. Concessions for industrial machinery were removed, resulting in 1 8 per cent increases. I am sure that many letters were sent by  Senator Rae  and other Tasmanian Liberal senators at the time about this matter, but the simple fact is that the result of these letters was nil. I suppose the main reason was that the then Minister for Shipping and Transport was a Country Party Minister. The Country Party has one criterion on when subsidies will apply and that is whether it will gain Country Party votes. There are no Country Party votes in Tasmania. 
I sympathise with the difficulties  Senator Rae  had, but to reply to those difficulties by accusing this Government of being dilatory, obstructive or anything else is ludicrous. In the 2 years that this Government has been in this office, $lm has been given as a general transport subsidy for the passenger service across Bass Strait. There has been a $2m subsidy given for outward freight from Tasmania. A royal commission has been set up to settle this issue once and for all. Those opposite, including  Senator Rae,  who scream about Government spending and scream about excess Government spending, and those who like  Mr Snedden  claim that they will reduce Government spending across the board by 8 per cent, will get nowhere with the people of Tasmania, King Island or with us by standing up and saying that we are not spending enough and that we are neglecting Tasmania. They removed the subsidies and they increased the fares. All the subsidies that apply now were introduced by this Government in the last 2 years. I welcome this Bill. 
-The people of King Island will welcome this Bill. 
I am glad that, despite the personal attacks and the inane interjections,  Senator Rae  supports this Bill. I hope that when the shipping agreement runs out he will support moves to give the Australian National Line the power at least to contract as a freight forwarder so that further improvement will occur. I hope that when that occurs, he will not bow to the vested interests of the freight forwarders and oppose it. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I also do not wish to delay the Senate for very long. We have had a feeling of deja vu in this place for about the last 3 years every time that health insurance Bills are debated.  Senator Guilfoyle  stated quite clearly the Opposition's attitude to these Bills and to the health scheme in general. She gave some outline of the Opposition's plans. I thought at that stage that these Bills would pass away quietly but then the debate became more fascinating with  Senator Baume  's rather tortuous logic in attempting to justify his opposition to the machinery Bills. He accepted the fact that there had been 2 elections, that we had won them, that the legislation had been accepted, that a joint sitting took place and that the legislation had been passed.  Senator Hall  demonstrated quite clearly that he alone on the Opposition benches reads what  Mr Hayden  and others of us on this side say about health. He is the only person who takes any notice of it. 
Last year, before I was a member of this chamber, the proposed scheme came under some criticism because it was a contributory scheme in that the levy on tax to pay for the health scheme was separated from the general taxation.  Mr Hayden  made it quite clear then that he wanted the levy kept separate because he did not want anyone to be under the false impression that health care would be free. In the recent debate in the House of Representatives, as  Senator Hall  pointed out,  Mr Hayden  said quite clearly that if the Opposition persisted in opposing the machinery legislation to carry out our national health insurance scheme we would have to fund it from Consolidated Revenue. This has been pointed out since in newspaper articles. But apparently it was not until  Senator Hall  came out with his shattering light this afternoon that inspiration suddenly hit the Opposition that this is what would happen and that throwing this Bill out would not necessarily throw out the Government's health insurance scheme. 

 Senator Townley has always been opposed to the principle in this Bill, but this is standard procedure for him. I would expect  Senator Townley  to support those vested interests who look after the large national health benefit funds. I would expect him to support the gentlemen in these health benefit organisations who elect themselves; organisations which have been described in a rather quaint way by  Mr Chipp  as cooperatives, yet give their members no vote; which give their members no say in how their funds are used; which lend their public relations officers to the Opposition during election time; which distribute propaganda paid for by the contributors to their funds, to be distributed by doctors and others during election time without asking for the contributors ' permission. 
I would expect  Senator Townley  to support this group of people, as I would expect him to support groups of people like the General Practitioners Society whose principle of fees is the same as that of the retail traders organisationthat a doctor should charge what the public can bear. I dare say that this is the principle in  Senator Townley  's shops. This is the principle of that small group of doctors who belong to the General Practitioners Society. To suggest that our scheme does not provide universal access is nonsense. To suggest that it decreases efficiency is nonsense. To suggest that it is an attack on private hospitals is nonsense. But to go on with all the old argument that has been going on since 1968 and 1969 in Australia is crazy. 

 Senator Townley reflected on those horrible countries like Sweden, New Zealand and Great Britain which have national health schemes. It is an unfortunate fact, of which  Senator Townley  would not be aware, that if Australia had an infant mortality rate anything like the rate in Sweden, we would be very proud. In fact, if we could reduce our infant mortality rate to the rate applicable in Britain or in New Zealand we would be very happy. 
-That is affected by the health scheme, is it? If we could increase our life expectation to that which applies in these countries, it would be very helpful indeed. Ask the people of Sweden or New Zealand or Britain whether they would like their health schemes taken away. Let us remember the words of the  President  of the New Zealand Medical Association who, when he arrived in Australia, said that he could not understand what the Australian doctors were about, why they were so utterly conservative, why they were so frightened of a universal health scheme. I ask honourable senators to read the letter from the  President  of the Canadian Medical Association who was most incensed at being misquoted by the General Practitioners Society in Australia which suggested that the Canadian Medical Association did not like Canada's health scheme. Honourable senators opposite are reading the articles of the General Practitioners Society, but what is more, they are in the unfortunate situation of believing what is in the articles. 
-The English health scheme is not the same as the proposed Australian health scheme.  Senator Baume  knows it, every doctor in Australia knows it, but  Senator Townley,  who is not a doctor, does not know it. 
The proposed Australian health scheme is the same as the Queensland scheme on the hospital side. I do not see Queensland senators getting up in this chamber and opposing the Queensland health scheme at the present time or at any time. Ask  Mr BjelkePetersen  whether he is suddenly going to start charging in the Queensland hospitals. I am in a different position from  Senator Baume.  I do not believe that the paying of a fee makes any difference to the standard of service given by the doctor. I have a higher regard for my colleagues in the community than apparently  Senator Baume  has. 
There was no misstatement at all. We know what the English hospital scheme is. We know what the Queensland hospital scheme is. We know that there are private hospitals in Queensland. We know that the health standard in Queensland is almost as good as it is in most other places in Australia. The opposition to this scheme, as it has always been, is to protect the vested interests which control the voluntary health insurance schemes.  Senator Townley  opposed this legislation when he was an Independent. He is still opposing it now that he has rejoined the fold opposite. He was pretending to be an Independent but his robes were so transparent that he was left looking quite obscene. 
The honourable senator has never supported anything from this side of the chamber. I am sorry the Opposition is opposing the legislation because this is a good health scheme. It could have been modified if any difficulties came up. I would prefer that the scheme be funded by a levy so that it was obvious to everyone how much they were paying for it. This country needs a universal health scheme. If the Opposition forces the Government to fund it out of Consolidated Revenue I suggest that we will do that in order to provide the people of this country with the health scheme they deserve. 
-Can the Minister for Agriculture confirm that a contract has been signed for the sale of a substantial quantity of meat to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? How much will this sale of meat assist the meat industry in its current difficulties? Is there any possibility of future sales of this type? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements claiming that the appointment of former  Senator Murphy  to the High Court has not created a casual vacancy in the proper sense of the word but rather a political vacancy which should be filled by a political appointment? Does the Minister agree with this assertion? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation outline for the Senate his Department's policy on the repayment by repatriation pensioners of past overpayments of pensions when the overpayments are the result of a departmental error? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  It arises out of a concern for the established customs and conventions of the Senate which was awakened in me by the moving speech of  Senator Withers  last night. Is it an established custom or convention of the Senate that members of the same political Party sit together? Now that  Senator Townley  had admitted his membership of the Liberal Party of Australia, has he made application to sit with other members of this Party? Is there any reason, such as the refusal of other members of his Party to sit with him, for a delay in his departure from the bench occupied by independents? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports in which the Queensland Premier claims that imported canned meat is injuring the Australian meat industry? Is there any truth in this statement? 
-The opposition by the Liberal and Country Parties to this Bill I believe is entirely consistent with their increasing political conservatism. The opposition is entirely consistent with the Liberal and Country Parties' objections to any Bill which removes inequities from our social system or, more particularly, which strikes at areas of unwanted privilege in our society. I assume, if as seems likely the Opposition is soon to be led by a disciple of Ayn Rand, it will become obligatory for members of the Opposition to espouse her philosophy of despair and doom. 'Adas Shrugged ' and other edifying tomes will replace Adam Smith. 
This Bill is a machinery Bill to facilitate legislation to assist in the smooth introduction of the national health insurance program, which we call Medibank. This Bill is not necessary for the introduction of Medibank. The introduction of Medibank, which I hardly need remind members of the Opposition was made possible by the double dissolution and the Joint Sitting of Parliament- both events were provoked by members of the Opposition- can be brought about without this legislation, but this legislation provides adequate protection for some groups. 
For the pensioners and also for the occupants of nursing homes. It is interesting that the arguments brought forward in the debates on this Bill and other health Bills changed very little until  Senator Baume  with an amazing piece of enlightenment informed us today that this Bill would destroy the pensioner medical scheme. 
-Of course it is right. But of course the honourable senator did not tell us that this Bill will replace the pensioner medical scheme with something which is very much better for pensioners. He did not tell us that under the Medibank scheme pensioners will have a freedom of choice that they have never had before. He did not tell us that he has been a member of the Australian Medical Association which for years has attacked the inadequacies of the pensioner medical scheme. Nor did  Senator Sheil  tell us that for years he has been a member of the General Practitioners Society which is not only opposed to the pensioner medical scheme but also opposed to the present system which was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The arguments used by the Opposition in this Bill demonstrate the desperate nature of the Opposition. Not even the earnest efforts of people like Bill Arthur, assisted by ample funds from the Australian Medical Association and voluntary health organisations, can bring credence to arguments of the Opposition.  His  ghost writing may be of assistance to new columnists- I do not know. All we have had are the old furphys that we have heard since 1969. Opposition to social reform traditionally involves misstatement, misrepresentation and the induction of fear of change into the population. After almost 2 years of this a new element has been involved, and that is the element of a sort of semantic nit picking. Nowhere is this more obvious than in the objections of  Senator Guilfoyle  and others to the use of the word 'free' in advertisements for Medibank. As  Senator Button  showed this morning, the advertisements clearly state that Medibank is a non-contributory fund which is funded from taxation. The advertisements clearly state that public hospital treatment will be free. This means the patient will not have to pay at the time of treatment. The word ' free ' was used in this context in the complaints by the Opposition to the removal by this Government of the free milk scheme. The Opposition had no objection to using the word 'free' in that context at that time. 
Tasmanians are very proud of their free dental and orthodontic services. No one in Tasmania suggests that no one pays for it, but we still use the word 'free' to describe the provision of these services. In none of these cases is the use of the word 'free' meant to imply that the thing is somehow plucked out of the air and that no money is involved and no one pays. I realise that people like  Senator Baume  and  Senator Sheil  are firm in the belief that an adequate medical service and doctor-patient relationship involves the crossing of palms with silver. I believe this is an old Romany tradition usually involved in fortune telling and witchcraft. To me this is a gratuitous insult to those members of the medical profession who are fully salaried. Some 45 per cent to 50 per cent of the doctors in this country are fully salaried. Anyone who suggests that the members of this noble profession require the crossing of palms with silver to give a decent service are being insulting and should be treated with the contempt they deserve. Misrepresentation can also be demonstrated in the arguments of the Opposition by the description of sessional payments in hospital schemes as civil conscription. 
For years the Austraiian Medical Association has been trying to overcome the system of honorary hospital consultants and it has advocated that they be paid. In Tasmania and in other States we are now paying doctors who were previously honorary consultants in hospitals. When it was advocated that these people be paid, no one suggested then that this was somehow civil conscription. 
No one ever suggested it, and the honourable senator knows it. I supported the AMA when I was a member of it in trying to remedy the crazy system where we had the Robin Hood principle of the consultant outside the hospital justifying his high fees to private patients because of the free work he was doing in the hospital. I shall be interested to see how many consultants reduce their private fees now that they are being paid for the work they previously did free in the hospital. The argument always was that their fees outside were high because they gave so much free work in the public hospitals. 
Opposition to this scheme and to the other schemes, to my way of thinking, is not based on fact, and it is certainly not based on a concern for patient welfare. It seems to me that it is based on an opposition of unenlightened conservatism, and this to me is best exemplified by the General Practitioners Society and its offshoot, the Workers Party, and also the League of Rights, all of which seem to be represented here. Combined with this is a sacred duty to preserve the expensive empires which have been built up by the various moguls in some of the voluntary health organisations. These people operate under the guise of being public benefactors. 
Nowhere today was the nature of the opposition demonstrated more clearly than in the statement by  Senator Baume  which I believe  Senator Melzer  mentioned.  Senator Baume  said that the medical profession will co-operate with anybody except the Australian Labor Party. Here we have a member of the Australian Medical Association, who is the Canberra correspondent for the AMA 'Gazette', who finally after all this sanctimonious nonsense that has been heard from the AMA, claiming that it was concerned for the patient and was a non-political organisation, has said: 'We will co-operate with anybody except the Australian Labor Party'. 
Honourable senators opposite know that the patient who has been relieved of the fear of heavy costs will benefit in this scheme. Honourable senators opposite know quite well that the scheme will not upset the general practitioner. He will practice as he does now. Whether he bulk bills or not will be his choice. Despite the implications of  Senator Sheil  and  Senator Baume  it will be his choice. It is up to him. Honourable senators opposite know that when the scheme was introduced in Canada the choice was given and for the first year there was blind obstructionism to bulk billing but later on bulk billing became the norm. They know that those who wish to insure for private hospital treatment will be able, by one conscious effort, to purchase private health insurance to cover them for the difference between public hospital and the private hospital treatment. Honourable senators opposite mouth the words produced by the former member of the House of Representatives who can regularly be seen running around this place. They know that, come election time, money, literature and a public relations man will be supplied to their parties by the voluntary health funds and that these will be supplied from moneys that have been contributed by innocent people who thought they were putting all their money into insuring against their health needs. 
Medibank will supply the benefits of the present medical insurance scheme and more. Private insurance to cover those elements of private hospital care will be available. It is wise to point out that Medibank would have been funded by a tax levy which was clearly indicated on everyone's tax returns, which would have shown the people what they were paying. This Government wanted the people to know what they were paying. The Government had no intention of pretending to people that the money was coming from some mysterious Pandora's box, but our attempts to get the levy Bill introduced were blocked by the Opposition twice in this place. Despite the warnings of  Senator Steele  Hall, who apparently was the only member on the other side of the Senate who read the debate in the House of Representatives and who read the implications of the Opposition 's actions, the Opposition still blocked it and now it complains because it is not clear where the money is coming from and how much is coming from each person's income. The fault is yours, ladies and gentlemen, not ours; you know this. 
I want to make it clear that I can tell the difference; perhaps  Senator Baume  cannot. Certainly the hospital benefits part of the Medibank scheme will vary from State to State. We know that in those States which will co-operate- there are two and probably three- the Federal Government and the State governments will go 50/50 in the building and maintenance of public hospitals. This is certainly an improvement on the past scheme. In those unenlightened States which are unwilling to co-operate the Government will still contribute $ 1 8 per day towards hospital bed costs. This is nine times the contribution now and the contribution as it has been for over 10 years. 
I dare say that when this Bill is defeated, as it certainly will be,  Senator Baume  will trumpet another victory for conservatives in his new journalistic capacity, and the General Practitioners Society's journal and the newsletters of the lilac league will praise  Senator Shiel  for his effort in it. But I think honourable senators opposite should remember that the label ' conservative' so proudly worn by them has 2 connotations. The first is a desire to preserve the best of the past. This is a politically meaningless term because it applies to us all. It applies to  Senator Button  with his love of art and music. It applies to  Senator Wriedt  and many honourable senators opposite with their love of the classics. But when the term is used to describe those who wish to preserve the inequities in our society, who wish to preserve the privileges of the few gained by wealth or birth or stealth, or who wish to preserve any other injustice in our society, the term conservative' becomes a political epithet which in my opinion the Liberal and Country Parties in their opposition to this Bill thoroughly deserve. Opposition to a Bill which is merely a facilitating Bill and a machinery measure to allow the Medibank scheme to go through- a scheme which was approved by the people of this country in 2 elections and by a Joint Sitting of Parliament which was provoked by the Opposition- is blind obstructionism. 

 - Senator Sheil knows that it is blind obstructionism. However we cannot get anywhere with him. He remains stubborn; he remains adamant. All the words that have been used over the last 5 years on this and other schemes- our words and those of honourable senators opposite- are perhaps wasted, except that they will demonstrate to the community the resistance to change which is apparently present in all Opposition members. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I regret that it will not be passed. 

 Senator BAUME (New South Wales)-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
-I wish to make a brief contribution to the debate on these 2 Bills. I am pleased that the Opposition is supporting the National Health Bill (No. 2), which removes the present anomally relating to the long waiting period for a pregnant woman to become eligible for fund benefits, and also removes the fortnight's delay in which people who are incapacitated or unemployed are involved. I point out that people in this latter group are frequently in need of medical care during that first fortnight. A not uncommon reason for their lack of employment is their incapacity due to some medical condition. I am pleased that the Opposition does not oppose this provision. I only regret- I am sure that many people do- that this provision was not introduced many years ago. It has been obvious for a long time that this was an inadequacy in our health scheme, and at last it is to be corrected. 
The National Health Bill (No. 3), as was the case previously when it was part of National Health Bill (No. 2) 1974, is opposed by the Opposition. Although  Senator Button  has some difficulty in working out the emotional allegiance of the Opposition to the voluntary health funds, I suggest to him and to others that perhaps this allegiance is not entirely emotional. I think we must never forget that during the election campaigns in 1972 and 1969 contributions towards the cost of printing and propaganda were made to the Opposition parties. In particular, during the 1972 election campaign one of the large voluntary health funds supplied free of charge a public relations officer from its staff to work for the Opposition parties. So perhaps this allegiance is not so much emotional as very practical. 
However, as  Senator Button  has stated, one consistent part of the Opposition's stand in opposing any change in our national health scheme has been the Opposition 's insistence on the preservation of the voluntary health funds as they are. One can recall the mystifying leak of the Opposition 's proposals on health before the last election. In the first draft of the proposals  Mr Chipp  and his committee proposed that there should be consumer representation on the boards of voluntary health funds. However in the second and final draft- it may have been the third or fourth and final draft- this proposition in fact was removed. I am afraid that I cannot understand this objection to the provision of consumer representation on the boards of voluntary health funds. We have been through, often enough, the mystical ways in which the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia elects its directors. We have been through, often enough, the way in which the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia gives token representation to consumers on its board of directors. In all the open funds- some of them are quite small- we find this quite mysterious way in which boards of directors are elected. 
Voluntary health organisations pose as cooperatives to supply people with health insurance.  Mr Chipp  has said in debate in the other place that voluntary health organisations are like co-operatives, but they do not act at all like co-operatives. People put money into voluntary health funds- I am sure that most of us here do so- to obtain insurance in times of illness. Voluntary health funds frequently spend large amounts of money on activities which really have nothing to do with voluntary health insurance. As I have mentioned, they spend money on political activities, on printing propaganda and on other things. In no instance do these funds ever ask the permission of the consumersthey certainly do not ask the permission of any consumer on this side of the chamberwhether they can do this sort of thing. 
The difficulty with the present set-up is that the only course of action available to the Government in a case where a fund does not comply with the present Act is for the Government to deregister that fund. This is an impossible penalty for any government to apply because it penalises the contributors. This is a fact that must be recognised. It was recognised by the Nimmo Committee and it was recognised by the Opposition when it was in government under  Mr Gorton.  This Bill seeks to allow the Minister to ask the voluntary health funds to show cause why they should not be investigated on why they are not acting correctly with their funds. If they cannot do that, there is a provision which allows an inspector to be appointed to investigate the funds. If there is reason the Minister can then apply to the Industrial Court to have a judicial manager appointed. As  Senator Button  said by way of interjection when  Senator Sheil  was speaking, surely there is nothing wrong with this principle. The Minister is responsible to the Parliament. In this case before he can appoint a manager the Minister has to go to the court and show cause why a manager should be appointed. If the court agrees and a manager is appointed, people can appeal. Once a manager has been put in to a fund people can again appeal claiming that the manager is not needed any longer, and he can be removed. Surely this cannot be termed the dictatorial powers of the Minister. I doubt very much whether it is any greater a power of the Minister than the power exercised in the case of insurance companies by insurance commissioners who were mentioned earlier today by  Senator Wheeldon. 
I was a little disappointed at the cynicism of  Senator Sheil  when he referred to the previous subsidisation and to the present subsidisation of the voluntary health system by the Government. The payment of this subsidy is a good reason why the Government should have some overriding supervisory powers over the voluntary health system. It is important that the Government should have these powers because under the present set-up this is the only way in which the contributors to the voluntary health funds, who are the voters of this country, can get any powers or exercise any supervision at all over these funds. After hearing  Senator Baume  and others say that this was a fine - 
We have heard  Senator Baume  and others in previous debates say that the voluntary health scheme was a fine scheme and that because they believed it was a fine scheme they supported it and subsidised it.  Senator Baume  has said that on at least 2 occasions. Now  Senator Sheil  comes into this chamber and says: 'Those were only vote-buying tactics by previous governments and by this Government and that the government subsidies were just at that level to buy votes'. That indicates a degree of cynicism and is most enlightening of the attitude of members of the Opposition, as was  Senator Baume  's unfortunate reply to an interjection in a recent debate when he said that the doctors will co-operate with anyone but the Australian Labor Party. All that the National Health Bill (No. 3) seeks to do is to implement the provisions that were recommended by the Nimmo Committee and by previous Senate select committees. Surely the fact that the Minister is responsible to the Parliament and that he has to go through judicial procedures to put in a manager is as much a safeguard as you will get in any sort of ministerial powers. 
I return to the point that either the Opposition has an emotional attachment or allegiance, as  Senator Button  puts it, to the voluntary health funds, or the Opposition is afraid of what will happen to the source of supply of propagandathe provision of people and printing- in future election campaigns. Surely this can be the only objection left. The introduction of the question of Medibank into this debate may help to stir up the emotions that honourable senators opposite have failed to stir up in the past to prevent the onset of Medibank. Even when Medibank is introduced and there is still a place for voluntary health funds to insure people for private hospital treatment and for treatment not provided by Medibank, surely then there should be some supervision of these funds by the representatives of the consumers- this Parliament and this Government- to see what the funds do with their money. This provision has been recommended for years. We again try, through a Bill of this Parliament, to give this supervisory power to the Government. In view of votes which have been taken in the past I daresay that we will fail again. I think the consumer in health insurance will be the loser. The voluntary health funds will not lose much. The Opposition certainly may gain something. But the consumer in health insurance, the ordinary patient in this community, will lose. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (5.10)- I am rather intrigued to. hear the proposition that is being put regarding the National Health Bill (No. 3).  Senator Guilfoyle,  who is leading for the Opposition in this debate, has said that we are supporting the National Health Bill (No. 2) but opposing the National Health Bill (No. 3). It has been stated with some force that Medibank should not be involved in this matter because in fact the matter has no application to Medibank. If we accept that, I suggest that there is no purpose in the Bill at all, because what has been done through the hospital and medical benefits funds has been to provide a service to people in the lower strata for hospital and medical benefits, with particular regard to special accounts. It seems to me that, with the advent of the Government's proposals which are to apply after 1 July- and it is expected that undoubtedly they will do so- these voluntary funds will not be involved in the direct sense in governmental health, medical and hospital services. These are the voluntary funds which the Government has gone out of its way to keep reassuring everyone will be continued for those people who want to have supplementary medical or hospital benefits. The second reading speech of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security gives a clear and definite indication of an attempt to subjugate these voluntary funds which the Minister has said may continue for the benefit of people who want supplementary hospital and medical insurance. There is a clear indication of an attempt to take over control of the funds. Such subjugation, takeover and manipulation undoubtedly would be damaging to them. 
During the course of the debate we have heard the argument that the funds have no real subscriber representation. One of the Ministers who sit at this table was once, if I remember rightly, a representative on the Hospitals Contribution Fund of the St George District Hospital. I was a representative on the Fund of the Ryde District Soldiers Memorial Hospital. 
Honourable senators opposite say these things, but when the test is put on them they go to water. The New South Wales Government, which at the time the Fund was created was a Labor Government, has, or at least until a short time ago had, a representative on the Hospitals Contribution Fund. Those people represent their subscribers in terms of people who contribute to and are associated with the hospitals giving service under the HCF. What upsets me is the suggestion that these funds are great big organisations. In New South Wales, trade union groups are involved in hospital contributions funds. They are not great big organisations. Anyone who goes into the Newcastle area can find out about these funds, which are supposed to be such terrible things. 
I have been a Commonwealth Minister for Health and I know the problems of the organisations that arose from time to time in relation to the voluntary funds. We have heard reference to special account patients. That was an arrangement entered into with the funds by the Government to ensure that the funds could continue to make a real contribution to the pensioner medical service and to lower income group people in a voluntary hospital and medical concept. The agreement entered into inevitably covered an area of disputation in relation to government contributions. However, that is beside the point. It has been said that the provisions of this measure do not relate to Medibank. If we accept that, why should the Government now be attempting to do things for the funds and saying, as propaganda, in reply to criticism: 'They will be able to continue, and if people want to stay in a hospital or medical fund they can do so by paying their premiums and the benefits will be supplementary to what they get from the Government'? Pray God they do that. But if some of the things in this Bill become law they will prejudice - 
The Bill should be defeated and possibly redrafted. I would be the first to acknowledge that perhaps certain provisions in relation to the funds will not provide for their long term security. But certainly the position should not be as is spelt out in the Bill. However, I do not want to delay the Senate any longer by going through all these matters;  Senator Guilfoyle  dealt with some of the aspects of what is proposed. I am concerned about the transfer of funds, the ability to put them into the hands of a manager, and a whole series of things which I understand from the second reading speech. I do not believe these things are necessary for or will help the management of the funds and I think they will be detrimental to the continuation of the funds after Medibank becomes a fact. 
Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation inform the Senate of the nature of the constructions now being carried out at the repatriation hospital in Hobart, and can he inform us what future plans his Department has for this hospital? 
Does the Minister for Agriculture recall a statement made last year by  Mr Crean  when he was the Treasurer announcing that in 1974-75 depreciation rates on new plant and equipment for taxation assessment purposes would be doubled? When will the proposed measure be enacted? Will primary producers be eligible for these higher depreciation rates? 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation whether he saw the report in yesterday's 'Daily Mirror' of the statement attributed to the Vice-President of the Fire and Accident Underwriters Association of New South Wales. It stated: 
ALP policy is to lower premiums in an already efficient industry and this means private companies will either go out of business or be absorbed. 
Can the Minister give the Senate some enlightenment as to the efficiency or otherwise of the insurance companies? Is this an accurate statement of Australian Labor Party policy? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Science aware that some new 6-cylinder cars in Australia are being sold fitted with cheap 2-ply tyres imported from the United States and that these tyres, although complying with Australian standards, do not comply with United States standards for tyres? In view of the opinion of motoring experts that these tyres are unsafe and inadequate, will the Minister cause to be made a review of Australian standards for tyres and investigations of the customs regulations which allow tyres of this standard to be imported? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee B relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of the statement by Professor de Burgh from the University of Sydney that there are 2000 people of Aboriginal descent in this country suffering from leprosy? Has he any evidence as to the accuracy or otherwise of this statement. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport refers to courses for mariners on the use of lifesaving aids introduced last month by the Minister. Have these courses been successful? Is it intended that the Department will continue to hold these courses? 
-Very briefly, I think that  Senator Guilfoyle  and I entirely agree on this matter. It is just that I have not got the faith that she has that the State Premiers will not send just senior administrators to the Curriculum Development Centre Council. I think that it will be just another job for an experienced senior administrative public servant in their various departments. 
I wonder whether the Minister could help me a little further in regard to the definitions. In some areas and in some towns, small or large, such as the town I come from, there is a college of advanced education and, because of size, economics and everything else, technical courses are being conducted. Does this mean that these colleges in applying for their grants, or the State in applying for its grant, for technical courses in colleges of advanced education will have to go to this new Commission but will then get its funds through the College of Advanced Education Commission, or the other way around, or why do they have to do both? I am not sure that the definition makes this clear. 
-Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen the statement attributed to  Mr Peter  Studer, the leading Swiss foreign correspondent, that this country no longer has any discriminatory laws on its statute book? Is this statement accurate, considering the presence of the unchanged Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Act? 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting we were discussing the proposals for redistribution of electorates in Tasmania. I had no intention of speaking on this proposition until some new ideas were introduced into the debate by  Senator Townley  in his inimitable manner. We heard  Senator Rae  and  Senator Withers  state quite clearly the Opposition's reasons for opposing this motion. There was nothing different from the reasons that had been advanced in its opposition to the redistribution in South Australia. However,  Senator Townley  introduced a few new ideas in expounding his thoughts on redistribution, which I thought were worthy of comment from this side.  His  first and main proposal seemed to be the introduction of a new rule into elections, particularly Senate elections. He exposed me to the world as coming originally from New South Wales, having been born and brought up in New South Wales. He seems to haxe a xenophobia which I have not found in any other native born Tasmanian that Tasmania can be represented only by native born Tasmanians, and New South Wales can be represented only by New South Welshmen. I think the introduction of the Townley rule to the Electoral Act would raise many complications. I must admit that I was born and brought up in New South Wales. 
-Shame on me. Until I reached a mature age and decided to move to the premier State I lived at Albury in New South Wales. While true confessions are in order, I must confess that as a child I threw stones on roofs and blew up letter boxes on Empire Day. I must go even further and admit that the owner of one of those houses and one of those letter boxes was our friend  Senator Bunton  who has recently been appointed to this chamber. He seems either to have forgotten it or to have forgiven me. 
I probably was deported. The introduction of the Townley rule would lessen the esteem in which this House is held because in the past we have had, and at present we have, many people who have not represented and do not represent the State in which they were born. 
-He would be in terrible trouble. Ex-Senator Turnbull, who was born in Shanghai, would have had to be sent back to the People's Republic of China. Some members opposite would agree with the suggestion, but I doubt whether Mao Tse-tung or Chou En-lai would have felt happy about it. One wonders what ex-Governor Ronald Reagan of California would have said if we had insisted that  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt go back to California where he was born. No one in this House, I am sure, would insist that  Senator Guilfoyle  go back to Belfast. There are others involved.  Senator Webster  was born on Flinders Island which, some honourable senators may know, is part of Tasmania. The senator who concerns me most of all is a man for whom I have great respect. I refer to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who, according to the Australian Parliamentary Handbook, was born at sea. I do not know what we would do with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He would be sailing around on a ship expounding his theories to whales and to fishes. I believe this place would have been grievously harmed by his absence.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is from Caithness in Scotland. I must admit that if he had stayed there he probably would have ended up on the Woolsack and graced that as Lord Cormack of Caithness with the skill which he showed when he was  President  and with the skill which our present  President  shows. 
That would raise great complications. I think  Senator Townley  's attempts to provoke some sort of xenophobia in the populace of Tasmania will not work. We would lose some eminent Tasmanians such as  Senator Wriedt  who, I understand, was born in Melbourne. The Liberal Party may gain because  Mr Snedden  who represents a Victorian electorate was born in Western Australia. There are many others.  Senator Sim  would have a much easier time getting home to Victoria, the State in which he was born, than he does to Western Australia, the State that he represents. It is unfortunate that  Senator Townley  introduced this matter. He seemed to be quite serious, but it is very difficult to know whether he is serious. Fortunately his Party in Tasmania does not hold this view because the man about whom he said some very harsh things,  Mr Sherry,  2 elections ago was opposed by a rather right wing gentleman from the southern states of the United States. The new Secretary of the Liberal Party in Tasmania, like myself, is an import from that dreadful State of New South Wales. However, these things happen. I am sure that if  Senator Townley  thinks about his proposition he will change his mind. 

 Senator Townley had some unfortunate things to say about  Mr Duthie  who, he assures us, will lose the seat of Wilmot at the next election. People have been saying that about  Mr Duthie  since he was first elected in 1946. In the 12 or 14 years that I have been in Tasmania people have been assuring me: 'Next year  Mr Duthie  is gone '. He is still there. I understand that when he writes a book it will be entitled 'They're all waiting for me to die'.  Mr Duthie  was described as scurrying desperately around his electorate. That is the reason he is still a member. He is always scurrying around his electorate looking after his electors, attending to their problems, hearing what is wrong and doing what he can to correct it.  Mr Barnard  also will lose his seat at the next election, I am told by  Senator Townley.  It was unfortunate that the candidate the Liberal Party selected to stand against  Mr Barnard  was a lieutenant-colonel from Hobart who was born out of the electorate. I understand that he was born in one of the mainland States. Obviously  Senator Townley  has not the support of his Party in this regard. 
Some funny arguments have been raised against the redistribution in Tasmania. My friend and colleague  Senator Wright  used, in my opinion, a rather strange argument in a letter he wrote to the Electoral Boundaries Commission on 25 February. He said in part:   six years ago Kingston-Blackmans Bay was taken out of the Franklin electorate and transferred to Denison when the Member for Franklin resided in the KingstonBlackmans Bay area, and now, when the candidate announced for Denison resides in the area, it seem unfortunate and inappropriate to switch the area away to another electorate. 
That brings in a new rule- the Wright rule. The Wright rule is that electorates should be made to suit the candidate from the Liberal Party; the candidate should not be made to suit the electorate. I have commented on those two rather strange arguments only because I had no real reason to rise. The Opposition has made it clear that it will oppose the redistribution. The only member of the Opposition who has implied publicly that the Distribution Commissioners who were asked to do the redistribution were dishonest was  Senator Townley  in his speech today. He may or may not have realised what he was saying. I notice that  Senator Rae  was careful not to say that, as was  Senator Withers. 
We believe that the time for redistribution has come. We believe that the new rules, by which there will be a tolerance of only 10 per cent, are sensible. We believe that even in Tasmania where none of the electorates, it is true, falls outside that 10 per cent there is good reason to make the electorates even and geographically more sensible.  Senator Withers'  comment that the result of the redistribution will make all the seats in Tasmania safe for Labor is an incredible one. I am sure that  Mr Barnard  does not agree with him. I doubt very much whether  Mr Davies  agrees with him.  Senator Townley  certainly does not agree with him because he said that even if the redistribution goes through Labor will win all 5 seats at the next election. I will not detain the Senate any longer. I support the proposition that there should be a redistribution in Tasmania. I believe it is a shame that the Opposition adopts the attitude that it does towards the question of dividing this country into equal electorates. 
Question put: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Tasmania into the electoral divisions as proposed. 
-I rise to support the Curriculum Development Centre Bill. I am glad that the Opposition in general agrees with this principle to establish the Centre. The Interim Council for the Curriculum Development Centre has done valuable work since July 1973. Its report issued in 1974 outlined some of the work it has done, but what is more important it outlined suggested plans for the future, all of which I think are very desirable. The desirability of this Centre with its coordinating functions, with its innovative functions, with its information collecting and distributing functions has, I think, been recognised in other countries which like ours have a multiplicity of educational authorities and systems. Valuable assistance has been given in other countries by such groups as the National Schools Council in the United Kingdom, the Nuffield Science Project and various projects in the United States which are federally funded and which have aided teachers and pupils in many fields. 
The previous Government in this country recognised the necessity for this sort of thing when it helped the Australian Science Education project and other projects in Asian languages and in social science teaching. I believe this has been part of the evolution of such a Centre as this Centre. As has been mentioned by  Senator Guilfoyle,  many of the States have various sorts of curriculum development centres dealing with teaching material, dealing with the development of curricula but mainly, I think, concentrating on the development of teaching aids. So much is happening here and overseas in the field of education that the development of such a Centre to act as merely an information gathering and coordinating Centre, the clearing house function of which  Senator Guilfoyle  spoke would alone seem to me to make the development of such a Centre justified. In fact, those of us who use our own excellent resources centre in the Parliamentary Library, will realise how such a Centre as that proposed could assist teachers, particularly teachers in outlying areas. 
It always seems to me to be unfortunate but inevitable that in respect of any Australian Government initiative like this, fears will be expressed that we are trying to develop a central dictatorship on curricula in this country.  Senator Guilfoyle  touched upon this and indeed letters that I have received have expressed such fears. The fear is that we will have a bland and a sort of uniform conformity in curricula in this country. I do not believe that anyone can accuse this Government of having such an aim or such a philosophy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  frequently oppose such a concept, and we have espoused at various times the development of regionalisation of educational facilities. I think anyone who knows or who has spoken to the Minister particularly and to the Prime Minister would realise that such a thought would be as abhorrent to them as it is to me. The Interim Council, I believe, expressed its disapproval of such an over-centralised approach when it said at page 4 of its report:   . . there is a need to distinguish between the development of prototypes and demonstrations of possibilities on the one hand, and taking decisions on curriculum policy on the other. The former is a task appropriate to the Curriculum Development Centre and the latter is the responsibility of such agencies as State Departments of Education, schools commissions and the schools themselves. 
And I might add, the parents. I think everyone on this side of the Senate agrees with that, and that is the intention of this Bill. If the State governments, if the schools, if the teachers themselves abrogate completely their responsibility to curriculum development, only then would there be a risk of this overbearing conformity and rigidity developing. I do not think anyone can seriously suggest that that is likely to arise out of this Bill. I believe that the functions outlined in clause 5 of the Bill provide in their diversity options for the Centre and its Council to be innovative and to assist others to be so, and more important to assess properly the results of their own and others' work. I would hope that the evaluation and the analysis of ideas from overseas and at home is a function that is utilised in proportion to its importance because the impression has been given- I must say at times to methat schemes have been adopted from overseas without considering the conditions in which they were developed or at times without any concept of the results of the schemes in those other places where they did develop. I believe adequate evaluation of such innovations together with a proper explanation to parents and a proper preparation of teachers is essential before we start experimenting in introducing new curricula ideas. 
I would like to join with those on both sides of the Senate who, I am sure, would urge the Minister, as did those who participated in the debate in the other place, State Ministers and other authorities to ensure that the very flexibility of approach in the concept of this Centre is carried right through and that those who are employed at various times, who are commissioned and who are supported by the Centre are not merely what one may loosely call academics and theorists, and that sufficient emphasis is given to the importance of practical teachers and to parents at all levels and to others who may be interested to have their skills and ideas utilised and evaluated. Since we have stopped, in most of our state schools and private schools, steering children rigidly into a sort of academic and technical type school in 2 streams, since we have stopped putting children into these streams and giving them little hope of getting from one to the other, I think the lack of curriculum development and curriculum assessment in many schools and in many systems has left the non-academic child, the child who is not going on to matriculation, the child who is not going on to university, in a sort of educational no-man's land. 
There are many children- I think it applies to most children- who for reasons of intellect, environment and psychological and other reasons do not proceed to matriculation, colleges of advanced education or to university level, are left doing courses which in some States and in some schools are merely watered down versions of the academic level courses. This may have been brought about because the curricula in the schools in the States are developed by people who are of their own nature academics, people who have had academic training and who have been to university. I think this has in some ways been aggravated, certainly in my own State, by the raising of the school leaving age to 16 years. This has left children doing watered down versions of academic courses- the same subjects but at what is considered to be a slightly lower level. These courses seem to the pupils, to the teachers and to others to bear no relation to the outside world, to the realities of the world in which they live or into which they are going to graduate. I believe that teachers recognise this; children certainly recognise it; parents recognise it, but to me authorities do not recognise it. I hope that such a Centre would give full support to the development of new concepts in the training of these pupils and in the development of curricula for these pupils, so they will see some relation between the school and the world at large and they will be better equipped, I hope, to cope with the world at large when they leave; better equipped to cope with everything they come up against, from the blandishments of advertisers, I suppose, to the importuning of finance companies, to the duplicities of politicians and everyone else and even the perfidiousness of nature itself. 
Liberal Party advertising too, senator. I think we would probably all be better off if advertisements for both parties could be assessed more correctly. I think the Council of the Centre, the staff and its grantees must not become a further prop to the ivory towers which we seem to have in abundance. I certainly think that they must not become a haven for senior administrators or an avenue in which to promote people sideways. I have a fear that if the Opposition's amendments are carried this may occur. I think there must be a place for the innovative, the idealistic and practical teacher. The aim described in the report of the Interim Council for the Curriculum Development Centre is to relate education to the needs of the individual. I think that provided the Centre is retained with this flexible approach, provided that it does not become a rigid conformist centre of propaganda to produce curricula that every child in the country must swallow daily in large doses, it can develop useful and very important concepts in the education of our children. If it can take one small step towards changing the rigid approach to education that some of us knew, and perhaps few of us overcame, it will do more for the children of this country than many similar provisions. I support this proposition. I do not support the amendments but will leave discussion of them until the Committee stage. 
-I oppose the amendment, not that I think that it is moved with any ulterior motives or because of any evil intent. I can understand the reason for the Opposition moving it. It wishes to ensure that the States, which are vitally involved in the Curriculum Development Centre and in the application of the curricula developed by that Centre, will be adequately represented on the Curriculum Development Centre Council. I realise that the States are vitally interested and want to keep in contact with the Council. I think we should realise that under the Bill 3 members of the Council are to be nominated by the Australian Education Council, which is made up of the State Ministers for Education. Surely this will give ample liaison and ample reporting between the Council and the Ministers. I would express some concern at the very grave danger of the 6 members on the Council who are appointed by the State Ministers for Education being senior administrators from each State who are sent to the Council to keep watch for their Ministers. I said that during the second reading debate. I wonder whether they are the right sort of people to help develop the innovative programs and the diversity of programs which we want from this Centre. 
The development of various forms of curricula teaching aids, etc., by this Centre will be well known. Surely the Centre will be in regular and close contact with the various curriculum development centres in the States. I can see nothing in the Bill to prevent the Centre and the Australian Government from helping and possibly at times funding projects developed by the various State centres. I would not like to see the Council of the Centre become another place where States rights, States jealousies and CommonwealthState jealousies in particular are thrashed out and thus interfere with the development of the functions of this Centre. 
The State Ministers have approved of the development of the Centre. I am told by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that at the meeting of the Australian Education Council before this Bill was written the Council approved of the Curriculum Development Centre Council. As the Australian Education Council is to nominate 3 members to the Council of the Centre, I do not see that the amendment will achieve very much. I think that it could inhibit the functions of the Centre. Also- this is more important- 1 think it could keep off the Council of the Centre people like practical teachers, outstanding theorists, outstanding parents or anyone else in the community who should be represented on the Council. I think that the appointment of administrators from each of the 6 States would keep these sorts of people off the Council of the Centre. For that reason I oppose the amendment. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the many Press reports of a statement by LieutenantColonel K. Newman claiming that he had resigned from the Army in protest at conditions in that branch of the armed Services and in protest at the policies of the former Minister for Defence? Has Lieutenant-Colonel Newman in fact resigned from the Army or has he merely transferred to the reserve list from which he can return to full service at a later date? 
-It may surprise some honourable senators to learn that the Tasmanian Grant (Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Limited) Bill which is before us seeks the approval of the Senate and of the Parliament for a section 96 grant to be made to the Tasmanian Government to enable that State to assist the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Limited, subject to that company maintaining certain employment levels. It certainly will be able to maintain higher employment levels than it would have been if we had not applied this grant. Both  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright  commenced their speeches by announcing that fact, but thereafter I do not believe  Senator Cotton  mentioned the Bill, and  Senator Wright  gave it passing reference at the end of his speech. One would have thought from their remarks that the Opposition would be opposed to the Bill. If their remarks could be accepted at face value, they really would have to oppose the Bill. But it seems that their words were just a sham to cover their embarrassment at having to support the humane and sensible action of this Government. 
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills is a very large company in Tasmania. In fact, it employs 1 in 11 people involved in manufacturing industry in that State. It produces, amongst other things, fine quality papers for the printing industry, the magazine industry and the general media industries of this country. Early in 1974 and in late 1973 there was a shortage of paper in Australia and elsewhere in the world. In fact, I can remember that when I first came to this place there were still rumours of a shortage of paper, and the joke was that we were creating that shortage because of the quantities of paper that we used in this place. Large stocks of paper were imported to overcome that shortage. As  Senator Wright  said, there was a certain artifically high demand for paper by some of the merchants, and their stocks built up. At the same time APPM increased its production. Its stocks rose and its orders fell below its levels of production. The orders on its books began to drop late last year and early this year, and an intolerable situation arose in that its stocks were too high and it was in grave danger of having to put off large numbers of people. 
Members of the House of Representatives, some honourable senators on this side of the chamber and I were amongst those approached by Associated Pulp and Paper Mills in seeking assistance from the Government to do something about the situation. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills has always been a company very conscious of its position in the community in north-western Tasmania and it has always been very concerned about the effects that the vicissitudes of the market, as  Senator Wright  puts it, have on the local community and on production. Representatives of the company came to us and, in my presence and in the presence of at least 3 other honourable senators admitted- and also did so publicly in a north-western newspaper- that a lot of their trouble was due to the fact that they badly misread the market, that they over-produced, that they had made a mistake, and that they were willing to admit to that. They did not come along with any of this nonsense that  Senator Cotton  goes on with, namely, that in this case all their problems are due to something that this Government has done. They did not make any pretence. 
They admitted fully to everybody, including the unions, that part of the problem was due to their misreading of the market. 
Burnie is almost entirely dependent on APPM for employment. In view of the fact that this was a unique situation in the paper industry in this country, in view of the fact that the north-west area of Tasmania would suffer dire consequences of large scale lay-offs, and in view of the fact that this was unacceptable to this Government- a Government which is concerned about people as well as figures and moneys and ledgers- the then Minister for Manufacturing Industry, the then Treasurer, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the whole Government of the time agreed to take this course of making a section 96 grant. As the Minister said, it is a unique way of giving assistance. But I put it to the Senate that it was a unique situation which needed urgent and unique remedies. I contrast this action with the situation that arose in Burnie in 1 96 1 when again the vicissitude of the market caused a slump in sales and production at Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. The company had to put off men. Meetings that blocked the streets were held in Burnie. As a result of that occurrence, the majority of the honourable member for Braddon in another place increased by some 10 000 votes from some hundreds of votes. The Government of the time- I need not remind honourable senators that it was a conservative governmentrefused aid altogether because it was more concerned about figures and percentages than the effects on a unique industry in a unique town. 
-The Liberal Party's concern about Tasmania has been demonstrated by its results in elections in that State over the last 23 years. I am the first to admit that I sometimes find it very difficult to understand how the Temporary Assistance Authority arrives at blank findings such as the findings it has arrived at in this case. I will agree that we will probably have to change the criteria on which some of its decisions are made. But we set up this Authority and the other tariff reviewing authorities to try to bring some uniformity and sanity into the tariff situation in this country. We did not want to indulge in the blind protectionist policies that some people opposite would ask us to engage in. If occasionally this system does not work in the way in which we think that it should work, we will have to look at it. But the Minister and the Government ended up in the situation in this case of needing a quick response and an effective response. After consultations with the company and with the unions, most of which went along with the solution, it was decided that a section 96 grant was the easiest and quickest way of helping this company out of its problems. 
I would like to emphasise again that the company itself admits that some of the problem- in fact a lot of it- was of its own making. APPM has always been concerned that its industry should remain viable, that its industry will expand and diversify. The company has gone into forest holdings. It has gone into other milling and projects in Tasmania to try to diversify and to protect itself from some of the ups and downs of the paper market which always occur. It has always been conscious of its position in the community, as I have said before, and has not had a lot of industrial strife in the past. A lot of the company's troubles will be solved by this policy of diversification and by its policy of looking after its workers and the people in the community. If we can help in a small way- it is a relatively small way- when great difficulties occur, I think that we should and I think that we should look after the people of the area and prevent the evils of the ups and downs of the markets in a system that most of us on this side of the Senate perhaps do not agree with but which we can do very little to change at the moment. 
Much comment has been made about special assistance for Tasmania in both the Senate and the other place. The most famous, of course, came from  Mr Wentworth,  MHR, who claimed that New South Wales and Victoria should not have to provide financial help to Tasmania and that New South Wales was becoming a bit tired of it. I am pleased to say that the Liberal Party unlike the Liberal Party of 1961 now says- and these are the words of its present Leader,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser: 
We recognise particular difficulties have faced the Tasmanian people which call for specific assistance by government. Some of our proposals for that assistance have recently been outlined in the Opposition policy package which I have recently reaffirmed. 
The Opposition policy package was hurriedly thrown together in the hope that there would be a double dissolution in May this year. I understand it is being reviewed in the light of present events. 
I always keep my hands in my pockets,  Senator Baume,  in case you walk around the back and remove what is in them. I support the Bill. I am glad the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
I agree with  Senator Devitt.  I think the Liberals really oppose the Bill but in view of the circumstances in the community at the moment they are not willing and not courageous enough to come out and oppose it. I commend the Minister for his actions. 
I will not keep the House long on the adjournment debate. I am afraid the matter I wish to raise is perhaps not as important as the matters raised by  Senator Bonner  and  Senator Missen  in the wide sphere, but to the people in my area it is important. I am moved to speak because on Friday and over the weekend in Launceston there was delivered to homes an election pamphlet on the front of which appeared the words: 'Kevin Newman. Your endorsed Liberal candidate for Bass'. On the first page inside the pamphlet the following appeared: 
I have resigned from a successful and challenging career in the Army because I am deeply concerned with the present situation and I cannot stand by without doing something constructive about it. 
A little further on it says: 
I believe I have not sacrificed my career in vain . . . 
This statement is consistent with statements which have been made since 10 May that LieutenantColonel Newman has resigned from the Army for a particular reason. I quote from what he said on the radio program 'PM' on 12 May 1975: 
The real thing that has triggered off the resignation is the failure of  Mr Barnard  in his Defence portfolio. 
In the 'Examiner' on 10 June  Mr Chipp  was quoted as saying of Lieutenant-Colonel Newman in Launceston on Monday: 
He was an extremely high-ranking Army officer who had made a sacrifice of resigning to contest Bass. 
The first thing that amused me somewhat was the suggestion that the  Colonel was  making a sacrifice in leaving the Army to contest Bass. I am sure we all realise that under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund legislation introduced by the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  Lieutentant-Colonel Newman would receive a lump sum of about $23,500, if he wished it, plus approximately $5000 a year which would have been a help if he was defeated in the election and retired to the farm that he already owns in Tasmania and would have been a very healthy addition to his parliamentary salary if he was elected. However, to the surprise of all of us, it has become obvious in the last week that  Colonel 
Newman in fact has not resigned from the Army but has taken advantage of the provisions of the Defence (Parliamentary Candidates) Act 1965. He was transferred to the Army Reserve on 10 June 1975. This means that if he is defeated he can return to the Army after the election. 
It was suggested this morning by  Senator Marriott  that this action was taken because there was no time to process his resignation before the day on which nominations closed.  His  resignation was submitted on 10 May, and nominations close tomorrow. I find the matter rather strange. I asked the Minister to find out that what I have alleged is in fact true. I would like to know whether the resignation had been put through any of the processes through which such resignations must go. I would Uke to know, and I am sure other people would like to know, whether the Minister approved it, whether the Military Board approved it, or whether the Executive Council approved it and whether it was ready for the Governor-General's signature. I would also like to know whether  Colonel Newman  asked the Minister or the Department to expedite his resignation. I would Uke to know whether the  Colonel 's  transfer to the reserve list was made at his request, as was stated. The gist of what I am saying is that we should know whether the claim of resignation was only a political stunt to set up the  Colonel as  a man of principle who resigned because of the views he held. If that was so, I would respect him, but it would seem to some of us that now he is having 2 bob each way, that he has got his publicity and that now he has transferred to the reserve list, and if he is unsuccessful he can resume the career from which he claims he has resigned. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by saying that in the policy speech in 1 974 the Prime Minister offered to provide half the funding for the new general hospital in Launceston, and I understand that the Tasmanian Government agreed to that arrangement. Can the Minister please tell us what progress has been made with the planning and construction of this new hospital, and to what extent the Australian Government is now involved? 
-The Senate is debating a motion to debate a matter of urgency which was moved by  Senator Cotton  in the following terms: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure, of the Government, when questioned, to make full disclosure to Parliament regarding overseas loan transactions. 
I was interested to hear my fellow member on the Joint Committee on Public Accounts,  Senator Guilfoyle,  drawing an analogy between this matter and the matter involving the Department of Aboriginal Affairs with which that Committee is dealing. It may well be, as she says, that there are similarities, although I do not believe there is yet much evidence of any, and that there has been a breakdown in Treasury-Government relationships of the type that the Committee thinks may have happened with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I hoped that the honourable senator also would have pointed out that on the Public Accounts Committee we take great pride in taking a non-partisan cool look at the problem, at looking at the evidence, at times in camera where appropriate and in public where appropriate, and investigating the matter before the Committee and looking calmly and coolly at the facts. This is not what we are doing today. We are indulging in a traditional sordid political argument with adversaries on both sides and with people trying to win political points. This is not the way to look at this problem. The appropriate way to look at this problem is through an investigation by a committee, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has promised, and then for the Government to look at the findings of that committee and at the evidence that was produced to that committee to give those findings. There is a world of difference between what happens on the Public Accounts Committee and what is happening in this place today. 
Other members of the Government Party and I have awaited this debate with some interest. 
Most of us have been surprised that it has taken so long to come on because of the claims and the posturings of members of the Opposition, particularly  Mr Lynch,  about the mysterious things going on in the money market around the world, especially in the mysterious East, and mysterious eastern gentlemen involved in all sorts of shady deals. The first accusation that I came across seemed to be that the Government had some sort of agency arrangement with a  Mr Khemlani. Mr Lynch  asserted that  Mr Khemlani  had a criminal background. When it was shown that neither Scotland Yard nor the Treasury, nor, I understand, a leading New York bank, could find any evidence to support this assertion there was no back-down from  Mr Lynch.  To my knowledge,  Mr Lynch  has not apologised to the gentleman for the assertions he made. I must say that in view of  Mr Lynch  's record the fact that the assertion is wrong and that  Mr Lynch  will not back down and will not apologise to someone about whom he has made accusations in this way does not surprise anybody on the Government side. 
When  Mr Lynch  found he was getting nowhere with this accusation he started to produce mysterious pieces of paper. They came from sources that he would not reveal. He would not submit them to authentication, and he would not guarantee himself that they were authentic. One of the documents claiming that the Government had an agency arrangement with  Mr MacDonald  of a company called Dolmac Consultants has since been denied. From the Government side of the House it is really difficult to understand what are the motives behind the Opposition 's campaign- this campaign that has consisted of unsubstantiated statements of denigration and innuendo. It is difficult to know what it is all about, unless it is just for sordid political gain. There are always people who will produce pieces of paper and push selective facts or selective tracts out to people for their own gain or for their own notoriety, and unfortunately there are always people in this place who will take them and use them for their own gain. They will always accept them. We have to five with this. 
I had hoped with other members on the Government side of the House that today we would have had some indications of the reasons for this episode from the arguments that were put forward by the Opposition. As with other urgency motions we have had in this place, we have had very little indication.  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wriedt  have pointed out to members of the Opposition and to members on the Government side the obvious fact that the world has changed and that there has been a great capital flow from the traditional money markets of the world to the Middle East oil producers. I think the figure of $700,000m was quoted. It is obvious that many of the oil producing countries, many of which previously were unsophisticated in money matters, would use people from their own area, their own racial groups and their own religions to develop methods of handling this money and investing it. For example, I can remember that Saudi Arabia hired a Pakistani gentleman- a banker and a distinguished economist- to develop its treasury procedures and to develop its economy. 
It seems to me that it is also sensible that someone seeking funds from these areas should look to people who have had long experience in the area and who may even be of the same racial group as the people in the area or even sometimes of the same religion, to seek funds, to find out where these funds come from and to investigate whether arrangements can be made to borrow some of these funds- not to borrow the money for us but to investigate the sources of the funds. I can see nothing unusual in that and I can see nothing sinister in that. It was on that theme that  Senator Cotton  started the argument which I think has been the one consistent argument used by the Opposition all afternoon. We have had all sorts of diversions. We have even had an interjection of a racial nature. But the basic argument that has run right through the speeches of members of the Opposition this afternoon has been that the Government has not used the traditional methods of seeking finance, that we have not used the Morgan Stanley group in New York, that we have had the temerity to change the practices of the past. I suppose some members of the Opposition will object to that merely from the approach of blind conservatism - 
... of the type  Senator Carrick  demonstrates- a suspicion of change. Others, however, in the vehemence of their arguments have raised doubts even as to that motive. It is sometimes very difficult to understand what is going on in the Opposition's mind. It is sometimes difficult for members of the Opposition to know what is going on and the debate peters out as this one is petering out. 
If the furtive little epistles produced on television by  Mr Lynch  and followed up by claims such as 'I cannot authenticate them. It is up to someone else to authenticate them', is the sort of evidence the Opposition is using to question the Government's motives, I would suggest that we could probably question the Opposition's motives. I think that the time has just about come in this debate when certain questions should be asked of the Opposition. What are the Opposition's motives in raising this matter? I am not referring to the high flown nonsense we heard from  Senator Greenwood.  Are they based on some desire to hang on to the traditional methods of dealing with traditional people in traditional ways- in other words, the traditional political conservatism? 
Is this matter just a political stunt?  Mr Lynch  has been involved in enough of those. Is this being done to protect the people who supply the sordid material that  Mr Lynch  so frequently uses around the country? The Opposition has to answer these questions. It is not for me to suggest that the Opposition is just protecting its traditional friends or that it is even protecting its traditional sources of income for itself. The questions have been asked of the Opposition. It now has to explain why it has indulged in this little episode and why it has gone along with  Mr Lynch  and his little tricks, because the nature of the debate has changed. The Opposition has received answers to its questions from this side of the chamber. It now has to produce some answers to the questions as to why it has indulged in this sort of nonsense. 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs clarify for the Senate the Government's attitude to the suggested moves to suspend or to ban Israel from participating in the forthcoming General Assembly of the United Nations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true that the Philippines and Thailand governments have affirmed that the South-East Asia Treaty Organisation should be phased out? What is the Australian Government's attitude to this proposal? 
I see from the revised list of speakers that practically every Opposition senator is to join in this debate, so I will try not to keep the Senate too long. We are debating a Bill to set up an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. We have heard from Opposition senators in this debate this afternoon and this evening of their complete and utter horror at the introduction of such legislation but we have not heard yet any coherent reasons for this distaste. 

 Senator Cotton gave us a homily on the reasons for the deferral of this Bill on the last occasion it came before the Senate and for the need for careful consideration of all legislation. He included quotes from the House of Commons and the House of Lords. This may apply to him but it certainly does not apply to his colleagues in the National Country Party, or whatever its name is this week, who from the word go, from the very day that the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Wheeldon,  announced the intention to set up this organisation, said that they were opposed to it.  Senator Webster,  in particular, spent the time since the legislation was first announced condemning the setting up of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation although he had no idea of what was contained in the legislation. In fact some weeks ago in Tasmania a Liberal Party advertisement in the newspapers said quite categorically that the Liberal Party would appose the setting up of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Yet the Liberal Party only officially announced 2 days ago that in fact it would oppose this proposition. 
The insurance companies announced their disapproval even before  Senator Wheeldon  uttered the first words stating that he intended to set up such a corporation. Its advertisements against the Bill appeared before any consideration of the legislation was possible. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, said in the  Age  of 3 May 1 975 that he was afraid that he did not appreciate those particular ads and that he especially did not appreciate them because he suspected they were written before the writers read the legislation. I think we should get away from this charade and nonsense that is going on about this legislation having been carefully considered and that certain parts of it are no good. The Liberal Party, the National Country Party and the insurance companies were opposed to this concept before they saw the legislation. 

 Senator Steele Hall at least stood up in this place as soon as this proposal was announced and said from the word go that he was against it. He did not go through this phoney exercise of consideration of the legislation and the pretence that meetings were held to consider whether it was good or bad. As  Senator Carrick  demonstrated in his speech, and as  Senator Button  clearly demonstrated this afternoon, the Liberal Party is opposed to all public enterprise. It is for competition between private companies but not between private companies and public companies. It is for freedom of choice of the individual but not for freedom for that individual to choose between private and public enterprise. Of course,  Senator Carrick  gave his weekly lecture in this place on the Labor Party platform. As he admitted, he was kicking the socialist can. However, he remembers when he was the bagman of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party. He remembers where the funds for that Party came from. He is only doing what comes naturally. From his spirited defence of the overseas companies we must assume that he received money from them. We all know where  Senator Webster  gets his money, and  Senator Webster's  interjections emphasise my point.  Senator Carrick  used a phoney argument when he referred to attempts by this Government to raise overseas loan moneys to purchase Australia back from some of the overseas companies. This was done not to introduce to this country foreign ownership, of which he is so much in favour, but to overcome some of the problems of insurance companies. 
When this legislation was introduced and, as I said before, even before it was introduced it provoked the usual Pavlovian response to any initiative by government to ensure that the citizens of this country have proper access to the facilities and opportunities in all fields of life. Any suggestion that the Government should ensure that companies act in a socially responsible way either by introducing controlling legislation or by the establishment of government enterprises to provide competition and innovation in fields such as this, as this Bill does, always brings howls of anguish, histrionic and hysterical displays in public meetings and confusion and misrepresentation in debates in this chamberand it always will. The publicity campaign in this case obviously has cost in excess of $lm. These funds were provided largely by the life assurance offices, most of which claim to be mutual companies or, as they sometimes like to put it, cooperatives of their shareholders; but none of them to my knowledge has consulted its shareholders about this expenditure. There have been radio, television and newspaper advertisements, including one grossly misleading television advertisement in which the personality involved omitted to state that he was a former prominent Liberal Party member. He claimed to be speaking for Australian private enterprise, when in fact he was employed by a Swiss company - 
We know where  Senator Webster  got his money and continues to get his money. Petitions of insurance staff members were gathered by using standover tactics. We all know of the case where one company placed on its staff notice board a notice warning people that their jobs might be lost if they did not sign the petition. Meetings were organised and staff was coerced into attending. At one meeting I attended the managers of 2 companies and the  deputy  manager of another company ticked off names of staff members on a roll as they entered the meeting to ensure that they could detect those who did not attend. Money was supplied to political parties, including  Senator Webster's  Party which receives vast sums of money from a well known, foreign owned insurance company.  Senator Webster  is never ashamed of this. He does not mind to whom he has to pay back favours. 

 - Senator Webster has just demonstrated his typical racist attitude. He is not concerned about money when it comes from white countries, but he is concerned when it comes from Arab countries. If only those in the community who are underprivileged, who are out of work even now, who cannot afford the luxury of insurance and to whom the tax deduction which props up  Senator Webster's  insurance companies means nothing, could galvanise such financial and logistic support it would be all right. Would a meeting called by pensioners or their dependants or any other such group attract one-hundredth of the crowd that was dragooned to the meeting which  Senator Webster  addressed in Melbourne? In fact, would he attend such a meeting and address them, or would he do as he did in a debate recently in this place and call those on unemployment benefits bludgers lying on the beach. This is typical of his attitude to people. 
You said that about the people you saw on the beach when you were lying on the beach resting your injured back. You have done that several times in this place, and you know it. 
You are typical of the people in the community who claim that those who are unfortunate are unfortunate through their own fault or their own misdeeds. 
You persistently do that. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I can understand  Senator Jessop  's and  Senator Webster's  sensitivity. 
I would liken the campaign against the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation to the campaign which was used in New South Wales in the late 1920s when the then Labor Government decided to introduce compulsory workers compensation legislation. The same insurance companies, Australian and overseas owned at the time, violently opposed the introduction of that measure. They described it as socialistic, communistic and against the civil rights of individuals. They even said that it was the work of Satan and therefore was un-Christian. They refused to underwrite workers compensation and the Premier of the day set up the State Government Insurance Office to cover the workers. Within 2 years the companies were back underwriting such insurance. There would be no company today and very few, if any, people in this chamber who would oppose compulsory workers compensation. It would seem that times change and views change but that the tactics of those who oppose this sort of legislation and any social reform never change. 
The aim of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is to consolidate those Government activities at present concerned with insurance into one office as much as possible. It is also to provide an alternative to the system of the agency sale of policies which encourages the pressuring of clients and limits the alternatives available to them. It also is aimed at providing insurance for non-commercial risks such as natural disasters and crop and stock losses. I believe all of these aims are justifiable. The time has come for all of these things to be carried out. 
This party does not accept and has never accepted the philosophy that the private insurance companies, which it would seem to us are more concerned with investments and profits than they are with insurance policies and the quality of insurance for their clients, have by divine right the prerogative to engage in profit making insurance, that non profit making insurance should be the responsibility of government, and that if non profit making insurance is to be carried out by private companies it should be subsidised by government. Honourable senators opposite are only too happy many times to condemn any government enterprise which does not make a profit, but when they are confronted with the possibility of an instrumentality which would make a profit and, what is more, an instrumentality which would demonstrate the deficiencies of the private sector, they will either sell it, as they did in the case of Comalco, or they will oppose its establishment, as they are doing in this case. 
This Government and previous governments in this country have had to act to protect policy holders from companies which indulge in dubious practices and companies which go broke leaving their clients without any cover. This Government and other governments have had to prop up the insurance industry with special tax provisions and with taxation deductions which have been made available to policy holders. Despite that we still have unfortunate people who are left without cover or have their compensation payments halted because the company, for all sorts of reasons, may default. We have had companies such as the Northumberland company masquerading as insurance companies but which in fact have been a front for a property speculator. 
With the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation people will have the choice of obtaining insurance for their specific needs without having added the extra expense of agents' costs and commissions and without the concern that the company might go broke and leave them without any cover. Most people still will prefer to deal with the private insurance companies, and these insurance companies will survive and thrive in Australia as they do in almost every comparable country which has a government office. The nearest to us is obviously New Zealand. In Sweden, Holland, Austria, Israel and many other countries which have got government insurance offices the large private companies survive and thrive. Even in this country if the AGIC wrote life insurance and got 1 per cent, 2 per cent or 3 per cent of the business, which the industry and the Government think is most unlikely, it would be a drop in the ocean. The Opposition knows that and the insurance companies know it. 
If the insurance companies are as efficient as they say they are, if their benefits are as good as they say they are, and if their service is as good as they say it is, there is no possible chance of the AGIC taking more than a small proportion of their business. But I suspect that they suspect that they are not good as they think they are. They have not kept up with overseas practices and they have indulged in investment practices of dubious social value, such as spending 18 per cent of their investments in property speculation and only 6 per cent in housing. I suspect that that is what they are worried about. They are worried that a corporation such as the one proposed will expose their archaic practices and their lack of actuarial assessment of the risks, which  Senator Button  and  Senator Everett  have both demonstrated. I believe that they are concerned that their reliance on a false property boom to maintain their capital will be exposed. 
The Opposition and the insurance companies claim that we have a blissful situation in this country, that everyone has readily available insurance cover for all his needs. However, we know that in the transport industry, in the long haulage industry particularly, and in many other industries which were partially listed by  Senator Button  people cannot get cover. We know that natural disaster insurance in this country is in a very poor state, and people of Darwin, Brisbane and other places who have suffered unfortunate disasters all can testify to that. In response the insurance companies- they responded in the same way with their alternative scheme to the national compensation scheme- say: 'It is easy. All you have to do is let us cover it and you will pay fork'. 
With the possible exception of the case of the Queensland Government Insurance Office, an office that exists in that dreadful socialist State run by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  reinsurance is one part of insurance that is almost entirely reliant on overseas capital and overseas companies. Up until 1973, when the new insurance legislation was introduced, 20 companies collapsed in 5 years leaving people without any insurance cover and having to pay extra premiums for new insurance. Those people who were insured by companies which defaulted, people from the flooded suburbs of Brisbane and other places, people who had their cover with companies which were fronts for dubious characters, will understand the old saying about insurance companies: 'It is easy to give them money but almost impossible to get it from them '. 
I believe and the Government believes that the Corporation will give the people a choice of cover in the field of insurance with less risk of being defrauded, without the necessity to pay for an army of agents on commission whose livelihood depends on selling policies which give them the most commission rather than selling policies which give the client the best cover. It is for these reasons that I reject and all honourable senators on this side of the chamber reject the sort of hysterical campaign that has been waged against this Bill. We reject the argument that the Opposition has carefully considered the whole legislation and decided that it is not a good thing, because we believe that the Opposition was opposed to the legislation before it even saw it. I support the Bill. I commend it to the Senate. 
I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That an Omega navigation station in Australia would be an integral part of the United States nuclear weapons delivery systems. 
That Australian collaboration in such a navigation facility would endanger the people and negate any Australian initiatives towards nuclear disarmament, nuclear free zones and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the government will take all steps to acquaint the people with the dangers of nuclear warfare and to work internationally for nuclear disarmament and that it will refuse to diminish Australia's independence and standing through the construction of an Omega station in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs which refers to the stated intention of the dissident group on Bougainville to declare independence from Papua New Guinea on 1 September. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the Government's attitude to this move and also of any action contemplated by it? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, follows a series of questions that have been asked in the Senate in the last 2 days concerning the political activities of the organisation called the Life and General Insurance Committee'. I ask the Minister Is he aware that a branch of this Committee has been established in Tasmania and has been asked by a political party in Tasmania to support an Opposition candidate in a Federal seat? Has a letter been sent by this organisation asking for volunteers to doorknock in support of this candidate? Has the Committee expressed the view that the insurance industry should support the Opposition in activities against a whole range of Government proposals, not merely the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation, and that this support should be carried out in a clandestine and underhand manner? Will the Minister take steps to alert the Australian electorate in all States to this clandestine and expensive campaign against the Government by means which I consider that many of the electorate will consider to be undemocratic? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation been drawn to a news item in today's  Canberra Times  about errors which have been discovered in the records of his Department as to the location and service of certain Army and Royal Australian Air Force units? Can the Minister give an assurance that action is being taken to rectify any errors? Can he assure us also that no veteran will be disadvantaged, as a result of such errors, in any claim he may make? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation been drawn to an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission yesterday in which the Executive Director of the Life Offices Association refused to divulge the cost of the insurance industry's anti-Government campaign but in which he also said that the Minister's estimates were exaggerated? Will the Minister make some effort to provide the Senate with an accurate estimate of what the policyholders really are paying to support the industry's campaign? 
I will try not to delay the Senate for too long,  Mr President.  I will certainly not try to match the metaphors, the alliteration, and all the other methods used by  Senator Sheil  to demonstrate his point. I believe that this Budget debate, like all Budget debates, has ended up in an endless sort of talk fest. Some of us enter into it with fire in our souls and some of us are ticking over with statistics and all sorts of facts. Others pump the parish pump vigorously, although I think very little more of substance than water then comes out of that parish pump in this place. Some of us, especially those of us who are about forty-fifth or fortysixth on the list of speakers, enter the debate somewhat reluctantly. 
I believe, and I think most people here believe, that after 3 or 4 people have spoken on each side on any subject practically everything that can be said has been said. I think  Senator Cotton  was right when he called the Budget debate an annual ritual. I think he also called it the equivalent of an annual ticket dance. The only thing that I can suggest to  Senator Cotton  is that perhaps we should hold a ticket dance every night in King's Hall when the Budget debate is going on. That would give us something to do and it may help to reduce the Budget deficit, which seems to have become a common factor in Budgets throughout the years. But with  Senator Cotton, Mr Crean  and others outside of this Parliament, I question whether this is the right way in which to go about budgeting and planning the country's affairs. I am sure that for many items, as it has been said previously, budgeting and planning once a year is not a sufficient length of time and that for other items it is too long. 
I sometimes wonder whether we do not try to cram too much into the annual Budget. The speech describing it lasts for only 1 !6 hours. The Press blows it up for a few days and then tends to lose interest. I am just wondering whether there is not a better way of going about the matter. I am not saying that I know a better way. I am not an expert on this subject but, unlike many others, I am prepared to admit that I am not. I think there must be some better way of doing what has to be done. I will give  Senator Wright  some credit for at least putting some interest into this debate last night. Prior to that the debate seemed to be petering out. But I think that  Senator Wright  was a bit unfair last night to the Press. 
-I think that  Senator Wright  was particularly unfair to the member of the Press who was sitting in the Press Gallery at the time. 
-I think the first thing that  Senator Wright  should remember is that the attendance of members of the Press in the Press Gallery depends upon whether the newspaper owners employing them and their editors tell them to be there. I think it is a bit unfair to blame the individual who is present in the Press Gallery. I hope that  Senator Wright  is not suggesting that we should dragoon members of the Press into listening to us. God forbid. The main reason why members of the Press are not present is that they are bored stiff. I would be bored stiff if I had to sit in the Press Gallery all the time and it is obvious that most members of this Parliament are bored stiff because they do not come into here and listen to the debate. But for  Senator Wright  to suggest yesterday of all days that the absence of the Press and the standard of the Press was creating a danger to parliamentary democracy in this country was, I really think, a bit rich, especially as yesterday was the day on which we saw what the Premier of Queensland and his Government did to the democratic process. 
It was front page news and it should be front page news because what was done yesterday to parliamentary democracy was worthy of reporting whereas what  Senator Wright  and 1 say probably is not. 
I give  Senator Wright  credit for adding a lot of interest to the debate last night, but I must help  Senator Wright  because he was misled by  Senator Withers  last night, I think perhaps unintentionally. I know that I am being pedantic, but the statement They now ring the bells but they will soon wring their hands' was actually made by  Sir Robert  Walpole at the outset of the war of Jenkins' Ear and not by Chatham. I realise that I am being meticulous, but I should hate to think that  Senator Wright  would ever quote that incorrectly at the Sandy Bay Returned Services League or somewhere else. 
I think the Budget debate does give us some help. As  Senator Wright  pointed out last night, some very good points are brought out and some factors are raised that many of us do not consider often enough. I think it was very good to hear  Senator Donald  Cameron bring out and demonstrate the inadequacies and the inequities in the wage structure of this country. It has also worried many of us that the man who keeps the car on the road, the man who repairs the truck and the man who repairs the large transport vehicles frequently gets $20 a week, as is the position in my State, and sometimes gets $30 a week less than the person who drives the vehicle, who has not had 5 years training and who is quite incapable of repairing it except in very minor cases when it breaks down. I think that this whole maldistribution of wages has crept up in the last 10 or 15 years, despite the arbitration system. I do not think we can entirely blame the arbitration system for that state of affairs. But the facts are that the discrepancy exists. 
What  Senator Wright  and others on the other side of the chamber did not point out is how they would correct the inadequacies that exist. I do not really think that people like  Senator Wright  and  Senator Withers  are suggesting that we should scrub the trade unions and scrub the arbitration system and go back to the law of the jungle I realise that  Senator Sheil  would prefer - 
-I said that I would not suggest that  Senator Wright  would suggest that, but I think the problem is a difficult one. I think  Senator Wright  knows that it is a difficult problem. I am sure he does. I think that we will have to look at the problem bilaterally and together and see what we have to do about it because the inequities are there and they are very bad. 
I found  Senator Sheil's  speech to be very interesting. I have often criticised  Senator Sheil  for being the representative of the ultraconservative group in this House and, indeed, in this Parliament. I think his speech was very interesting for some of the things that he said in view of the fact that we now have in this country a new Party, an ultra-conservative party, called the Workers Party. The Workers Party grew out of the General Practitioners Society, of which  Senator Sheil  is an honoured member. The Workers Party has put out a manifesto which in all ways is really no different from the sort of stuff that  Senator Sheill  turned out last night and repeated today. For instance, on page 653 of yesterday's Hansard  Senator Sheil  is reported as having remarked: 
The huge tax rip-off that the Government has literally stolen from the people has been frittered away in the pursuit of social reform, which I submit is not a proper role of government. 
I emphasise the words 'social reform ... is not a proper role of government'. By way of interjection  Senator McLaren  said: 
What is the proper role of government? 

 Senator Sheil said that it was defence and law. That hardly seems to me to be the policy of the Liberal Party of Australia and I doubt very much whether it is the policy of the National Country Party of Australia. I would like to quote from page 4 of Volume 1 No. 1 of the Workers Party's manifesto. These words appear: 
The Workers Party advocates that Government power should be gradually reduced till the Government is responsible only for the defence of Australia (non-existent at present), for the protection of honest Australians against criminals (at present the police are handicapped by unnecessary laws which restrict individual freedom), and the maintenance of a legal system to protect individual liberty and the rights of individuals. Individuals have no rights to own anything at the present time . . . 
That sort of back to Adam Smith, back to the law of the jungle, philosophy is obviously the philosophy of  Senator Sheil.  It is the philosophy he has expounded before in this place, and I think that if  Senator Sheil  were at all honest with us all he would join the Workers Party and become its first representative in the Parliament, at least for a short time. 
I found some of the language and some of the metaphors used by  Senator Sheil  also potentially revealing. Words like 'fungating plethora of commissions', 'constipation', 'enema', 'fornicating on the foreshores', and 'brooding impotence' may be very revealing to some people and perhaps would be more appropriate on the pages of  Psychopathia Sexualis  than on the pages of  Hansard.  However, I have no desire to go into the tirade of  Senator Sheil.  He is typical of the free market men who demand sternly that the free market place is the place where wages and prices are best fixed, but at the same time demand protection, bounties, subsidies and cheap public utilities for their own supporters. They tend to proclaim individual freedoms, that freedom of the individual means all, but then they bay for harsh censorship laws, conscription, restricted immigration based on racial grounds, and the flogging and gaoling of people like homosexuals. 
I think the most significant thing about them is that they demand freedom of choice, but it is always freedom of choice for those who can afford it and they deny freedom of choice or even freedom of opportunity to the poor and to those who cannot afford it. These people are found mostly in the National Country Party, and I recall the description in John Heller's book  Catch 22  which summed them up very well when  Major Major's  father was described as a typical mid-west farmer who believed that all government aid is socialist, except that which is given to the farmers, which is just. I do not believe that anyone who thinks wants to turn the clock back so that we have a philosophy of a political future in which Adam Smith is the god and it seems that Ayn Rand is the new messiah. The LiberalCountry Party coalition before this Government came into office did not want that sort of philosophy, but it is obvious that  Senator Sheil  and some of his colleagues in the National Country Party- certainly all his colleagues in the General Practitioners Society and in the Workers Party- wish to foist on us that sort of policy. 
This Budget had to be framed in circumstances of economic difficulty, both here and abroad, and no one on this side of the Senate denies that. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and the Cabinet had to work within constraints to present a Budget which would not reduce the money supply in a severe, drastic or sudden way, causing severe recession; nor could they attempt to buy their way out of this, as is being done in some countries, thereby causing intolerable inflation. 
Government spending in this country had to increase in the last 3 years. It had to increase in order to bring our social welfare payments up to somewhere near the level of comparable countries. In 1971 and 1972 we were below even countries like the United States, and far below Canada, which is usually considered by many honourable senators opposite to be one of the greatest free enterprise countries in the world. The percentage of gross domestic product Australia spent on welfare was far below those countries and people were not getting a fair go. Education was the Cinderella of public spending in this country, and drastically increased expenditure was needed merely to create a base on which we could form a decent education system and give everybody equality of opportunity. Health expenditure and health delivery services were not good, despite the proclamation made by some members of the medical profession that we have the greatest health service in the world. Our infant mortality rate was far below that of countries comparable to Australia. Our longevity rate was too low and our morbidity rate was too high. What was worse, in the early 1 930s and the preceding years Australia, together with New Zealand, was amongst the top two or three countries in the world when parameters like this were considered. We were always amongst the top two or three countries in things like infant mortality. Now we have dropped to fourteenth or fifteenth. Our infant mortality rate is not only worse than that of Sweden, which we expect to be high, but it is worse than the rate of Japan, 
Greece, and Great Britain, whose health scheme is so often condemned in this country. 
The Government apologises for none of this expenditure because its philosophy is that people in a society like ours should have as equal as possible an opportunity to lead a satisfactory and satisfying life. The concept that people should live in the straits in which Professor Henderson's Commission of Inquiry into Poverty demonstrated they do live should be abhorrent to all of us and we should do something about correcting it.  Mr Fraser,  in his philosophical discourse to the National Press Club, informed us that freedom to spend one's income is just as important as freedom of speech, of religion and of association. But the people described by Professor Henderson in his report, the people described for years by the Brotherhood of St Laurence, and more recently by the Social Welfare Commission and other organisations, have no freedom to spend their income because it is so low they have only sufficient or less than sufficient for their most rudimentary needs. I think the reply by  Mr Fraser  in February to a question in the  Financial Review:  'Who do you see as the group most in needs of Government help in Australia today?' is most enlightening.  His  reply was: 'Private enterprise'. To hell with the people the Poverty Commission talks about. To hell with the people the social security people are trying to do something about. Help the insurance companies and other people, who can spend vast sums upon political campaigns, and do not worry about those people who live in this poverty-stricken state. 
I should point out that the Henderson Commission was set up by the previous Government and some of the statistics it used precede this Government. There is no suggestion in the Henderson report, as was suggested by one Opposition senator, that things have become drastically worse in the last 3 years. The Melbourne University social welfare unit reported back in 1965 and 1966 the sorts of things that Professor Henderson has reported and it had been going on for years. When we come to consider the Opposition's attitude to this Budget and the attitudes put by Opposition senators in this debate, I find it very difficult to follow their arguments. As I said before, some of the good free market men like  Senator Marriott  demand higher and higher subsidies on all sorts of goods and services. They then complain that the free enterprise Press- and  Senator Wright  joined in this- had been too kind to the Government over the Budget. Then, of all things,  Senator Marriott  resorted for his quotes to that journalistic garbagecan, the Melbourne  Sunday Observer,  which I must admit he carefully denied buying. He said he found it on an aeroplane, I believe.  Senator after  senator complained bitterly about the increased levy on oil and every one of them did this in the certain knowledge that in May last year the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  advocated the doubling of the price of oil per barrel. Apparently, this was to be done not to help the people in the community, but to help the oil companies. Apparently when this was suggested it was said it would not have had any effect on the community, it would not have flowed through the community, but of course any levy put on by the Government does. 
Another honourable senator complained bitterly that the education lobby, as it is called, was too quiet after the Budget, that it should have howled the Government down, that it should have demanded more money. I suggest the reason is that they recognise that some constraint was necessary in the community and that the cut is a cut in the increase in expenditure, not in last year's expenditure. They also realise that the onset of a conservative government in this country will result not only in an actual cut in expenditure but also in a reallocation of the funds available to some of those schools which need it least. 
I think one of the most surprising statements was  Mr Fraser's  statement announcing the impending dissolution of the Australian Legal Aid Office. Over 100 000 people who have benefited from it have demonstrated the need for that office in the community and have demonstrated that there was a great gap in that area. Just blandly to announce that it would be wiped out if this Government were defeated was, I think, an extraordinary statement. The war lobby which is led by some people in this place demands increased defence expenditure, the rural lobby demands subsidies and bounties, and in the same breath people are demanding cuts in Government expenditure. 
I think the most ironical thing is the report, which is not denied anywhere that I can find, that  Mr Fraser  is contemplating a levy to finance Medibank, the very levy that his colleagues in this place refused to pass when we tried to pass it. I suggest that there is no coherence in these contradictory claims. But that is not enough; the extra-parliamentary Liberals are joining in, giving advice and handing out advice on how to do things. People such as Michael Baume and John Valdar have weighed in over the months giving advice all over the place and telling the Government what to do. I need not tell anyone that the former was a partner in a business that could not manage its own affairs. He seems to have gone quiet. The latter was once a great proponent of self-regulatory stock exchanges in this country and a great enemy and attacker of  Senator Rae  and his committee on the securities and exchange industry. He now advocates the gaoling of some of  Mr Baume  's partners for insider trading. One wonders whether he does that from principle or whether he just wants to protect his job. 
If we listen to all those people, social welfare and educational expenditure would be nil, subsidies to primary and secondary industry would be enormous, and the unemployed, in the words of  Dr Yuill,  one of the founders of the Workers' Party, would be given a few vegetables and left to fend for themselves. Many people question the priorities of various aspects of social welfare in this country. I think  Senator Baume  made a particular point of this. I agree with some of his queries about priorities but I think we must point out that while we have our present social welfare system priorities in this field remain a matter of individual judgment and the final result must come from compromise, no matter who is in Government. It must come from compromise between people with differing views. I agree with some of  Senator Baume  's priorities; others I do not agree with. He rates the expenditure of $ 10m for a cadet corps, which is of nil military value according to the report and which applies only to a minority of students, as a higher priority than the spending of a similar amount on hearing aids for the deaf in this country. I just do not understand that system of priorities. 
I think I should point out to  Senator Baume  and others that this Government is not satisfied with the priorities and is not satisfied with the system of social welfare in this country. I do not think any of us are. I hope both sides take note of the views given by Professor Henderson and his Commission, by the Priorities Review Staff, by the Social Welfare Commission, by people such as the Brotherhood of St Laurence and by others who are working in this field and have been pointing out the inadequacies and the fallacies of the present piecemeal system which leaves great gaps and which results in social welfare funds going to those who need them least rather than those who need them most. Until we get a better system it is important to deal with the present system. We must modify it. 
If  Senator Baume  's priorities are different from mine or from those of this Government, that is a cross we will have to bear; it is also a cross that any alternative government of which he is a member will have to bear. Whether his priorities are different from conviction, as I am sure most of them are, or whether other people's priorities are different because various groups have their ear at a particular time, we will all have different ideas on what should be done. We must all look at the social welfare system. For instance, I make no bones about the fact that I disagree with some of the ideas and some of the priorities of both parties. I think both parties should look very carefully at the policy which we have in common- the policy that we should abolish the means test for receipt of the old age pension for those above 70 years of age. Both parties seem to have that as a top priority. It seems to be an election gimmick; we seem to have put it above the needs of all sorts of other groups in the community. I think we must be honest with ourselves and look at the policy. This Government has had to delay the implementation of that policy. I know that people on both sides frequently disagree with it. 
I think we must look at the possibility of setting up an income support system so that there will be no need for the various categories of pensions and no need to put people in little groups, to give them pensions without any co-ordination and to give them bits of extra subsides to make up for the inadequate pensions. If we do not look at the whole system and get it changed we will continue in the piecemeal gimmicky way we have gone for years and years. By setting up the Henderson Commission the previous Government started the inquiry; the present Government has continued it by setting up the Priorities Review Staff, to look at this system and the Social Welfare Commission. Although  Senator Sheil  thinks all this is too much investigation and too much prying into our affairs, it is not so. We must look at the results and get a proper coherent plan out of them. 
Perhaps the most difficult thing has been to draw up this Budget under the constraints of inflation, economic slow-down and wage increases which provide insufficient return to those who need them and get them. Because of these constraints we had to slow down in many fields, but  Mr Hayden  and the Cabinet, I think to their credit, and in contra-distinction to  Senator Wright's  views, started a reform in the tax system which I think is most important. I think it is a long awaited reform. I think the advantages of the new tax system are firstly its simplicity compared with the old. It is interesting to remember that when the system of tax rebates was changed in 1951 or 1952 to the system of tax deductions, it was claimed that that new system would be more simple. Now apparently those people who know have changed their views. I think it is demonstrable that the new system is more simple to carry out. It is more simple for those who have to fill out their forms, lt is more simple for those who have to collect the tax. 
I think the second important part about the new tax system is that it does remove the necessity for some half a million people to pay tax. I think the effective increases in family allowances which aid the large family are very important, because it has been demonstrated by every inquiry in this country that in this area lies the greatest need. I think the change from deductions to rebates for families is more meaningful for the low income earners. Of course it means that some high income earners may pay more tax. I doubt whether any of us- certainly none of us on this side- will not agree that the system had become lopsided and should be changed. Oneparent families are helped. That is the second group of families in which Professor Henderson points out that there is great need to overcome poverty; it is the forgotten group in our society. Nobody- least of all  Mr Hayden-  is suggesting that these reforms are the ultimate or that new reforms will not be necessary. Of course he was limited by the constraints under which he had to plan this Budget. Any of us can do what  Senator Wright  did, pick out an odd example here and there and go chasing hares all over the place. Certainly some people, particularly the better-off single people who at present have deductions not for dependants but for other things will pay more tax. Certainly those people without dependants will pay some more. Very few will pay very much more. Some 2-income families will pay more but 2-income families still will be better off. They still will have a considerable advantage over the single income family at the same level of income. There will be cries of anguish from people like  Senator Martin  who want to protect the same old vested interests, especially the insurance companies. 
My question is directed also to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Knowing that the Minister is an avid reader of the AMA Gazette, I assume he has read the article which appeared in the edition of 18 September and was headlined 'Muddles, Delays with Medibank Cheques'. The article went on to assert that the Treasurer of the Australian Medical Association had been asked to forge the signature of another doctor on a Medibank cheque. Has the Minister any information as to the truth or otherwise of this allegation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I understand that the Minister attended the recent Council meeting of the South-East Asia Treaty Organisation. Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps have been taken and will be taken to phase out SEATO? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the allegation made in a letter in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of  '29  September 1975 that funds for the Australian Government's aged persons housing program had been directed towards meeting the cost of Medibank? Is there any truth in this allegation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. 1 draw the Minister's attention to a letter which has been sent to at least all members and senators on the Government side from the Federated TB Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen's Association of Australia which, amongst other matters, states that Repatriation should revert to a separate portfolio; secondly, it criticises the Government for not granting increases in the general rate war pension; thirdly, it criticises the appointment of a Minister to assist the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation on the ground that veterans ' organisations will now be forced to make submissions through the Minister assisting the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Does the Minister accept these criticisms as justified? Does he intend to do anything about them, if he thinks they are justified. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security in his regular study of that strange journal the  AMA Gazette  read an article advising doctors not to include a provider code on their stationery and claim forms? Can he inform us what will be the result of such irresponsible action on the functioning of the Health Insurance Commission and on its operating costs? 
-On behalf of  Senator Button,  I bring up the report from Estimates Committee B together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table the  Hansard  report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it true that the Apple and Pear Corporation is currently having difficulty in carrying out its oper tions? Has the Corporation put proposals to the Government for financial assistance? If so, can he tell the Senate the Government's attitude to this problem? 
Merely for the benefit of  Senator Rae,  I assure him that I received a copy of the letter. I read it. I am sure that other members of the Australian Labor Party in this chamber received a copy also. 

 Senator EVERETT (Tasmania)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration seen reported statements by the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  to the effect that he is not in favour of wage indexation? Can the Minister tell the Senate what the likely consequences in terms of inflation and unemployment would be if this policy were to be implemented by the self proclaimed alternative government? 
I wish to speak briefly to this Bill, a Bill which contains provisions to require manufacturers and distributors of pharmaceuticals in Australia to give information on the costs and overheads of their products so that the Department of Health, when considering the inclusion of the drugs in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, will have more information to enable it to reach an agreement on price. As  Senator Guilfoyle  said and as  Senator Sheil  eventually reluctantly said, this Bill results from a report in 1973 of the Joint Committee on Prices which was investigating the price effects of currency changes. Its recommendation was quite clear. Before I come to that, perhaps we should look at some of the people who were on the Committee. The  Chairman  of the Committee was  Mr Hurford;  the  Deputy Chairman  was the Rt  Hon.  John Gorton; the members were  Senator Gietzelt, Senator Guilfoyle, Senator O  'Byrne,  Senator Prowse,  the  Hon.  R. V. Garland, the  Hon.  P. J. Nixon, the  Hon.  J. M. Riordan,  Mr R.  B. Whan and  Mr R.  Willis. This was a bipartisan committee consisting of members in both Houses and all parties. On page 17 of the Committee's report in paragraph 94 the Committee gave a definite recommendation which stated: 
The Committee therefore recommends that the National Health Act be amended to make it mandatory for companies to provide the Department of Health with cost and financial information. 

 Senator Sheil may think this is some evil socialist scheme to take over or to destroy the pharmaceutical industry. But  Mr Nixon  from his own Party, and  Senator Guilfoyle  from the Liberal Party, and other members of the Liberay Party on that Committee did not think it was a socialist scheme at the time; I doubt if they think it is now. The Committee conducted its inquiry because it discovered that at the time of the currency changes there were reductions in the landed costs of some pharmaceutical benefits in Australia. As always happens in some cases, these costs had not been handed on to the consumers in Australia. They had not been handed on to the taxpayer or to the Government. This seems to be a not uncommon factor in the pricing of drugs in this country. We can all remember the great differentials in the price of drugs such as diazepam- Valium- in the 
United Kingdom, South Africa and heredifferences which could not be accounted for by freights or by any reasonable assessment of the production costs. 
It seems to me that there has been a change of view or a change of heart at least by those members of the Opposition who were on that Committee and probably by the Opposition since that time. There was no great outcry from the Opposition when the Committee brought down its report. I cannot find any dissenting reports by anyone against the Committee's recommendations. It would seem to me that the Opposition, after pressure from the drug companies, is looking around to find some means to get over passing this Bill- a Bill that some of their own members recommended. It has tried to grasp at straws and has come up with this amendment, but it will not oppose the Bill because that might look a bit rough in view of the Committee's recommendations. Members of the Opposition are seeking to amend the Bill until the Industries Assistance Commission report is completed and it has published its report on pharmaceutical and veterinary products. Members of the Opposition perhaps hope that the whole thing will fade away or they may come into government and will conveniently put it into a pigeon-hole and forget about it. 
Some of the things that were said about the Bill by  Senator Sheil  did not seem- to me at any rate- to be correct. They were said about the Bill in another place and were corrected by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in that place. I would hope that the Minister representing him in this place can confirm his corrections and reassure some of us, particularly on the point of confidentiality of the information which is given to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Bureau of the Department of Health. The first point I would like to make about  Senator Sheil's  statement that the 3 members of the Department involved in this are faceless men and they are in some way sinister. They are senior public servants; they are experienced public servants who have worked in this same job, pricing and arranging price agreements between the Government and the pharmaceutical firms when the Opposition was in government. They did so for many years. I think it is very wise that they are in fact faceless and anonymous, the same as people on the Drug Evaluation Committee, who are, in many cases, anonymous so that pressures cannot be brought on them individually from others with different points of view. 
It seems to me and it seemed to members in the other place that section 135 (a) of the parent 
Bill which provides for penalties of $1,000 or 3 months gaol for releasing information concerning the pricing of these drugs is a pretty fair penalty to protect confidentiality. That is contained in the Bill. It has been asserted in the other place by the Minister that this applies to the new clause. I hope we can get confirmation of that. I am sure that we can get confirmation of that from the Minister representing the Minister for Health in this place. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 

Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner we were debating the National Health Bill (No. 3). As I said, the Bill is relatively simple. It is a Bill to enable officers of the pharmaceutical pricing bureau of the Department of Health to negotiate in a fair manner with the various pharmaceutical manufacturing and distributing firms. At present in such negotiations the officers have only the information which the companies are willing to give to them. They are working in the dark. They have a very important job because this country spends vast sums of the taxpayers' money subsidising drugs under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I pointed out that these men are honest men. They are experienced men. They are senior public servants who have served both this Government and previous governments very well with no suggestion that there has ever been any breach of the confidentiality which is necessary in their job. I do not believe that they deserve the statement which  Senator Sheil  made- that they were a group of faceless men who somehow were going to take over the whole pharmaceutical industry in this country and wreck it. I also pointed out that in my opinion the parent Act had provision in it to protect the confidentiality of the information which was gathered. 
It is in section 135 A, I think. I am talking about the parent Act. I realise it is difficult to go back and see that. It seems to me that it is quite unfair to suggest that these men will be used in some evil way to destroy the pharmaceutical industry in this country. This Government, like every other government, realises that the pharmaceutical industry- both the Australian companies and the multinational companies- has been very important and that it will continue to be very important in the supplying of drugs in this country. 
It seems to me that there have been 2 points of opposition to the Bill. The first point of opposition was that of  Senator Sheil  who, in the sort of true working party nonsense and tradition which he goes on with, is opposed to all Government actions. He does not want any Government interference with anything in this country. For instance, his statement that the Government has no place in social reform and other magnificent statements like that put his attitude.  His  solution to the whole problem, which he stated tonight, was that all we needed was a free market. He said that we needed a free market, that all the drug prices would settle out and everything would be lovely. But he realises, and everybody else here realises, that if we had a free market in the drug manufacturing industry, if there were no tariffs, which is what the Industries Assistance Commission is investigating, we would not have any drug manufacture in this country. With the cost and price basis in this country no firm could compete with the production of drugs overseas. That is what a free market would give. 
We did. We were justified in doing that. We are now investigating the tariff situation in a proper way instead of relying on pressure from large companies to tell us what to do. 1 seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Before I was interrupted for the second time I was saying that  Senator Sheil  suggested that the solution to the whole problem of the drug crisis in this country was a free market, an open market, an 
Adam Smith style affair. But  Senator Sheil, Senator Baume  and everyone else around this place know that in fact in such circumstances of a free market and no tariffs there would be no drug manufacture in this country at all. The local companies could not possibly compete in that situation. In view of that, I do not imagine that  Senator Sheil  would ever agree to this Bill. I do not think he would ever agree to any part of this Bill. Therefore I believe he is not being honest in seconding the amendment moved by  Senator Guilfoyle  which is to the effect that the Bill be not proceeded with until the Industries Assistance Commission has completed and published its report. 
However, we will always need tariff protection and we will always need the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Therefore we will always need some reasonable way in which the Government can decide how much it will pay for the drugs that come on to this scheme, and we will not be in the ridiculous situation of the government pricing officers acting blind, with the drug companies doing as they like and telling them what they like, and a drug being listed or de-listed on that basis. 

 Senator Guilfoyle in her speech made her opposition quite obvious when she said that the industry is worried about the lack of confidentiality, about how these prices will be worked out and about what information will be required. I suggest that  Senator Guilfoyle  and other Opposition senators are presenting very much the industry case. I know that the large drug firms in this country have been of great benefit to this country and of great benefit to medicine in this country and the whole world. One cannot deny that. I know that some of their discoveries have been of great benefit to mankind. But we cannot sit here, as  Senator Sheil  is doing, and say that because they are wonderful, big, free enterprise companies with all this purity and light therefore they are managed by great gentlemen, because some of us remember that, following an investigation by a committee of the Senate of the United States of America, five of the companies, all of whom were involved in supplying the drug market in Australia, had to pay a total of $4m. They had paid that amount in bribes to ensure that their drugs were used in the Vietnam situation. 

 Senator Sheil, Senator Baume and I as doctors have received vast quantities of glossy material, advertisements, Chinese puzzles- at one stage I received a travelling clocks, bottles of whisky and records- and all of this sort of stuff which these poor, unfortunate companies which have no profit margin churn out to doctors every day of the week. It just does not fit that these poor companies which are not making any profit or any money should be pouring stuff through the mail. The only thing that will stop them is the recent increase to 18c in the price of sending a letter through the mail. 
I have, and I have requested that I be taken off their mailing lists. I am glad that the pugilistic senator from Hobart has just interjected in order to allow me to get that point over. Even the publication which  Senator Sheil  held up and which he wanted incorporated in Hansard is produced in fine print on glossy paper and is paid for completely by drug advertisers.  Senator Townley,  who is not here tonight, would know that even on the meagre and awful prices that this Government is supposed to pay to these people for their products they give extraordinary bonuses to chemists to encourage them to use the products. Many doctors prescribe generically many drugs. I did that with drugs like procaine penicillin.  Mr President,  you know, I know and everybody else knows that there were bonuses of the order of 50 per cent to encourage the use of the drug manufacturers' drugs. As the same time, these people are claiming that their profit margin is too small, that they cannot make a living and that the Government is being terrible.  Senator Sheil  said that we should have a great and free market. God knows what would happen to us in those circumstances. 
I dare say, as  Senator Webster  rises and cries that, that the drug companies may have been making some contribution to the National Party, the National Country Party or whatever it is called. Despite the fact that some 2 years ago some Opposition members were party to the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Prices and in particular were party to paragraphs 92 and 93 of the report which pointed out the impossibility of working out these prices and taking into consideration the whole profitability of the drug companies, and despite the fact that the report from the Committee pointed out that there was a regulations scheme in the United Kingdom which also showed that the whole profitability of the company cannot be used in working out the prices, the Opposition is now in the embarrassing situation, because of pressures from the industry, that it does not want to pass this Bill. 
Instead of doing the honest thing and the right thing and opposing the Bill, it is moving an amendment which says that it will wait and see what the Industries Assistance Commission says. Why not come out and oppose the Bill? One can say that in regard to another Bill that will be before the Senate soon. Why not come out and oppose that also? Why does the Opposition not be honest about it and oppose the Bill? Why does it not say, 'We want to look after the drug companies. We do not want them to give any information'. The Opposition wants the Pricing Officers Bureau of" the Department of Health to work in the dark. It is not worried about where the taxpayers' money is going and on what basis it is spent, which is a very strange attitude for  Senator Baume  in view of the time he spent examining the Estimates during the hearings of the Senate Estimates Committees. I say to the Opposition: Why not come out and oppose the legislation outright instead of moving an amendment like this which is just a cover for its complete opposition to our proposal? I support the Bill. 
-When this debate, which drones on and on like many in this place, is extended further into the population of this country, it will be about whether an Upper House, not elected on the same democratic basis as the Lower House in this country, should refuse Supply, therefore throwing out a democratically elected government. We have had a lot of argument and a lot of suggestions in this place about imagined government mismanagement and imagined government dishonesty. As  Senator Steele  Hall and others have said, the question will be: Should an Upper House in this country throw out a democratically elected government in a Lower House? We have heard  Senator Wright  and others state that this House is as democratic as the Lower House, it is a people's House elected by the people. In the past we have heard people such as  Senator Wright  justifying a 20 per cent variation in the size of electorates in this country. Now we have an extraordinary situation in which these people are justifying the fact that it takes 10 times as many people to elect senators from one State as it does to elect senators from another State. We are now talking about a variation of 1000 per cent, which is an incredible argument from a House claiming to be a democratic House. 
I believe that  Senator Martin  was guilty of an inaccuracy in her speech, an inaccuracy which was put forward in this House last year when we were appointing the Estimates Committees. She claimed that when they were established they were established with the support of the Australian Labor Party. She claimed that now they are established we are opposing them. I remember the debate last year. I remember  Senator Murphy  and others pointing out that we always have opposed the setting up of Estimates Committees. We have always been in favour of the setting up of standing committees. I did not have time in the evening break to check the times, the dates and the pages of  Hansard,  but I am told that one of my colleagues who will follow me had done so and will put this matter to rest. This debate is not about the Estimates Committees. They were set up because it was thought they would be a more convenient way of dealing with the Estimates. Without the Estimates Committees this House would still have to deal with the Estimates. That is perfectly obvious to anyone who has been a member of this chamber for any length of time. 

 Senator Rae made great play of the claim- he repeated it over and over again- that the Senate has the right to refuse Supply. The Senate is merely deferring Supply. He said that the Senate has done this, the Senate has done that. Those of us on this side of the House and those people outside who have been reading articles in the newspapers and listening to interviews on the television for many months now know that the question has been: Will  Mr Fraser  decide that the Senate will refuse or defer Supply? Many articles have been written about what a lonely man he is and what a difficult decision it was. From all the evidence, including the statements by  Senator Withers  and others, there is no question that the decison was  Mr Fraser  's. If  Mr Fraser  had not made this decision the Opposion would have passed Supply, but  Mr Fraser  decided that the Opposition should refuse Supply now. I suppose in this decision he took the advice that he asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to take tonight. He said that the Prime Minister should do what the London  Times  tells him. I think that statement tells us a lot about what  Mr Fraser  thinks of this country, the powers available in this country and the traditions and conventions of this country, when he advised the Prime Minister to take notice of and quoted the London  Times. 
The act which the Opposition is perpetrating in this House is the deferring of Supply in an attempt to force this Government to go to its third election in 3 years. I think it should be of concern to all of us. It should be of concern to all who want stable government, who worry about the future planning and development of this country and who worry about the preservation of the parliamentary system of democracy in this country. It comes as no surprise to those of us on this side of the House that the opponents of social reform and the defenders of privilege in this country will go to any length to maintain the advantages which they have. It is disappointing to me that the members of a party, which for some extraordinary reason calls itself the Liberal Party, in this House will follow the instructions of this group and will obey the call of those who attempt to defeat this democratically elected government. Those of us who were reactivated politically, if that is the word, in the 1960s by the gross distortions of view which were presented then, who saw this country dragged through the shambles of Vietnam and who saw that everyone who professed to be a social democrat or a democratic socialist was labelled a communist by people such as Senators Carrick and Greenwood, were dismayed with what we saw and heard. Some of us had been to Europe. Some of us had seen the sensible political debates which take place in most of the free countries there. We saw the exchange of ideas and philosophies without the name calling, rhetoric and accusations of communism which go on in this country and which have gone on in this country for far too long. 
We believed that in this country there were natural advantages to those who opposed our side of the House- advantages of money, of media control and of influence- but we thought that they were at least balanced by the parliamentary system which we have. We thought that a government should have three or so years to carry out its policies. I know of no other country which has a shorter term of office for a government than this country has. I do not believe that anyone imagined that the power put into the Constitution at the time-  Senator Jessop  called it the wild colonial days- would be used now that the Senate is a party House. The people who vested this power in the Senate imagined that it would be a States House, a House in which the small States could protect themselves from the large States.  Senator Rae  made great play of this in his speech. If he had looked at the people sitting behind him he would have seen that they come from all States. If he had looked opposite he would have seen that we come from all States. No one with any sense really imagines that the Senate is still a States House. No one, I believe, imagined that the State Premiers would abuse the conventions as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has done and would do dishonour to the memory of an honourable, gentle and conscientious man by appointing a pathetic character to take his place. No one in his wildest dreams, I believe, would have imagined the Opposition taking advantage of this quirk of fate to pass motions in this House. I do not believe anyone considered the lack of principle of people such as  Senator Withers  who admitted that a couple of months after the Labor Government came to power the Opposition started working towards not one but two double dissolutions to try to get rid of this Government. 
This country is now in the ridiculous situation that a fortuitous combination of numbers in the Senate and unpopularity in the polls could result in the defeat of a government. We are now in the even more ridiculous situation that the balance in this place can be altered by the appointment of a senator to replace one who has died, who has had an accident or who, for any cause, has retired. The appointment can be made by a Premier who has no morals and no respect for any conventions. I think the situation is ridiculous. I ask honourable senators to think of the position if Senators Davidson, Jessop, Young and Laucke were to perish in a plane crash or a car accident. Who in this place would have the gall to criticise  Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Millhouse  if they got together and appointed in the place of those senators 2 Labor and 2 Liberal Movement senators. If they did that the whole situation would change and this sort of debate would not be in progress. I think it is even more distressing to think of the possibility of some person with a twisted mind sitting somewhere in a back room who may decide that he should do something to influence the situation with a bullet or a bomb. 
Concern has been expressed on both sides of this House about the possibility of rioting, of marches, of punch-ups in the street. Those things may indeed happen, but they have happened before in this country, and people have short memories. They happened in the 1960s, they happened in the early 1950s, they happened in a grand way, particularly in New South Wales, in the 1930s, and we always got over them. We always got over that state of affairs. But I wonder how we will recover from the bitterness and the disillusionment that is produced by the certain knowledge that we all have now that if a Labor government wins an election in this country the conservatives in the Opposition will do everything they can to have that Labor government out within months. They will do everything they can to shorten its term of office. I ask: What faith will people have in the parliamentary system? I suggest that they will have no faith. They will gradually leave this field and graduate to the streets. They will join the few extremists present on both sides of politics in this country who do not believe in a parliamentary democracy. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I think that the Senate has been reasonably controlled this evening.  Senator Keeffe  's remark was one of a political nature and was not an imputation about or reference to a particular senator. I would ask all honourable senators to assist me to control the Senate this evening. 
As I was saying before  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack interrupted me, in fact there are people in this country who are extremists, people who, unlike those of us here, do not believe in parliamentary democracy. 1 believe that by making people feel frustrated they will be driven to that group. It is no good me and others on this side of the chamber who believe in a parliamentary democracy saying to these people: 'Look, this is a one-off situation. It will never happen again. They will go back to the conventions. They will go back to behaving themselves.' Once conventions are broken they are gone; they are gone forever. In 10 or 15 years time, if I am lucky enough or unlucky enough to be here and the situation arises where the wheel has turned, as it always does in this game, where there may be a conservative government and a Labor majority in the Senate, where there may be a low vote on the opinion polls because some unpopular but perhaps necessary decision has been made, I do not believe that I will be able to say to my colleagues: 'We should not do this', because they will say: 'Do not be a fool. Go for what you can. ' 

 Senator Withers in an interview reported recently in the newspapers made his position quite clear when he said: 'Winning is what counts.' That attitude, if taken generally, is a formula for political trouble. If the only thing that matters is winning and if any means are considered fair means, then in fact any means will be used to win. Philosophies and ideals will not matter and policies will not count at all. We will have the sort of situation that existed in America with Hughie Long, with Governor Gerry in Massachusetts, or even the sort of situation that exists in South America. Although I am not a lawyer, I believe that both laws and conventions are necessary to sane parliamentary government in the same way as a combination of laws and customs is necessary for a civilised society. I think it was  Senator Button  who said in a debate in this place the other night that to suggest that people should take the attitude that they will do anything that is legal is the cry of a political trollop. Even in ordinary society it is the cry of an antisocial being. To go on like that and say: 'The law is there. We can do it. That is what is written. We will do it no matter what the consequences', is asking for trouble in this country or in any other country. The hypocrisy that is used to justify that sort of attitude and action is to me at times breathtaking. 
I think it is the height of hypocrisy for a party to suggest that a government should resign because 2 Ministers misled the Parliament when that party does not even follow that dictum when it is in government and its own Ministers are not asked to resign when they lie to the Parliament, and sometimes lie repeatedly. I think it is hypocritical for people like  Senator Townley  and  Senator Baume  to talk about dishonest government when there is no proof of dishonesty. The person who made that accusation entered this Parliament as an Independent, with signs appearing all over Tasmania saying: 'Tasmania needs an Independent'. He wrote to the Tasmanian branch of the Liberal Party Executive on 5 August 1970 and, after announcing that he would not stand as a Liberal candidate, finished his letter with these words: 
My course of action is clear and quite decided. I will be a candidate for the Senate and failing that I will stand as an independent at the next State election. Under no circumstances would I apply again for Liberal endorsement. 
I know that there are some honourable senators who wish he would follow that firm statement that he made back in 1970.  Senator Baume  got up here and carped about dishonesty in government without giving any facts. He never gets up and complains about the dishonesty of firms like Patrick Partners, whom he seems only too keen to protect. When he votes against securities and exchange legislation in this country because he wants to protect that group, I think that that is also the height of hypocrisy. 
I believe very much that the Opposition has been casting around, looking for a reason to take this action, in the same way that it cast around and looked for a reason to take it in 1974. 1 think that it set out to manufacture a crime in its own terms. The Opposition went from crime to crime. It produced letters in the House of Representatives which were shown to be either false or even months old. Then, when it could not find a crime, it cast about for a criminal. When it could not find one, eventually the Opposition decided that it would go the whole hog and cast the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the role of a criminal. It has failed to make that charge stick. It could not find any evidence at all, so it decided: 'We will act anyhow. We will say that this whole Government and all its actions have been reprehensible'. I believe that this week the Opposition has been answered by the public, by the Press and by those people who are concerned about democratic government. The Opposition even came up with new policies. It decided that it was quite reasonable that if you wanted to throw out the Government you had to produce some sort of policy, some sort of Budget which would be different from this Government's Budget, lt has even had difficulty doing this. The Opposition produced a new policy on federalismSenator Carrick 's policy. It was a policy that was rejected by  Sir Gordon  Chalk and by  Mr Gorton.  It worried  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia, and it worried the life out of  Mr Kevin  Cairns, one of the Opposition's own members from Queensland. More than that, it has very much worried the people of Tasmania, both Labor and Liberal supporters, because they have seen the result of this sort of system in Canada where people in the small Provinces pay anything from 5 to 6 per cent more in income tax than those elsewhere. As well as that they have to pay the extra prices which are the standard thing in small Provinces with small populations. 
The Opposition decided quite firmly that it would throw out the Legal Aid Office. It definitely had to go and definite statements were made to that effect. Then the Opposition discovered that a poll had been taken and an investigation made which ascertained that people liked the Legal Aid Office and people were using the Legal Aid Office. Now I believe the Opposition does not intend to throw this Bill out. They intend to send it to a committee of the Senate where they hope it can be put in a pigeon-hole for a while. 
People in Australia know that bodies like the Schools Commission are in danger. They know that the Hospitals Commission is doomed. They know that if this Opposition gets into power it will be determined to tear down all the good things that this Government has done whenever these things affect the position of privilege of certain people in the community. I believe that the people of Australia will be frightened of this. Above all, they will be frightened by the arrogant grab for power by a man who has already assassinated one Prime Minister and removed a leader of his own Party in a very short time. I think they will be frightened of a man who pontificates to the people, who gets up and says: Life is not meant to be easy. You all must work hard', when he has had an easier life than anyone in this place. He has had a more privileged life than anyone in this place. His only experience of a hard life is something he has read in books or newspapers. 
I believe that the thing people fear most is the bitterness which will arise from the frustrations of a large group of people who will have no representation and who will have no hope of getting their government into power. They will have no hope of influencing the future of this country and they know that if their representatives ever get into government in this country action will be taken immediately to get them out as quickly as possible by fair means or foul. 1 believe that this can only result in the breakdown of the parliamentary system in this country. 
I am not concerned about the immediate effects. I am not concerned about a few punchups in the streets or a few demonstrations. I am concerned that what will happen in 10, 15 or 20 years time in this country may be what has happened in other countries where this sort of behaviour has been allowed to go on. People can rant and rave in this place. People can bring up false charges. People can spend 6 months trying to pin something on the Prime Minister and trying to pin something on other people. The Opposition can spend vast sums of money flying people to Australia to tell stories to the Press at a very convenient time. It can spend many hours on the telephone and use other means to convince various editorial writers in Australia to come out, all on the one day, with the same point of view, a point of view which they had rejected in the weeks before. But this is all too patently obvious. It will not work forever. I do not believe it will work this time. This Government is not going to lie down. This Government does not believe that we should be kicked like this for no good reason. 
Therefore we believe that these Bills should pass. We believe that these Bills should at least be debated in this House. We really believe that if the Opposition is opposed to them it should not just defer them, using the vote of a man who could not be here because he died. The Opposition should not just refuse to debate the Bills again which is what it is doing now. It is refusing even to put them on the Notice Paper. Members of the Opposition should have the guts to stand up and vote against the Bills. 
That at least would be honest, and as  Senator Mcintosh  says, it would at least be honourable. I do not think the Opposition will do that. I do not know why it will not unless it is that they are uncertain of the numbers on the other side of the House. I believe these Bills should go on the Notice Paper and we should be debating them so that some firm decision may be made. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether he has received any more recent information about the possibility of the release of the Australian Broadcasting Commission journalist Peter Whitlock, who it is understood has been detained by the Provisional Revolutionary Government in Vietnam? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, concerns the long awaited and expected Toose report on the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. Has he seen Press reports, particularly that in the Adelaide  Sunday-Mail  newspaper of 26 October, alleging that the Government has gone out of its way to prolong the Toose inquiry? Has the Government extended the terms of reference to  Mr Justice  Toose to inquire into in order to delay his report? When can we expect to see the report after these years of inquiry? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen a report in today's  Australian  newspaper of the reply which he gave to a question asked by  Senator Gietzelt  yesterday concerning the return of the bodies of Australian newsmen killed in Timor? The report claims that the Minister said that the relatives of the deceased persons would have to pay for the return of these bodies from Timor. As neither my recollection nor the  Hansard  record suggests or gives any indication of his having made such a statement, will the Minister clarify this situation for the Senate and for the  Australian  newspaper? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy, refers to the current reports of a recession in the Japanese steel industry. I ask the Minister what effect this recession is having, or could have, on Australian coal exports to Japan and what action the Government may be planning to take. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer the Minister to the article in the  Australian  on 3 1 October by Professor Sackville entitled 'Poverty and The Law' in which the professor is reported as drawing attention to the difficulties of people who cannot speak or read English when they apply for social security benefits. Professor Sackville also drew attention to the shortage of interpreting facilities in State and Federal departments. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the steps taken by his department to ensure that migrants have a clear understanding of their social security entitlements? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the presence outside Parliament House yesterday of  Mr A.  T. Franz of Bega who claims that for the past 15 years he has been receiving an invalid pension amounting to some $30,000 to which he says he is not entitled? Will the Minister give to the Senate the facts of this matter? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy, concerns the Australian Minerals Council. Does he intend to take an active role in this Council? When does he expect to call a meeting of the Council? What role does he see the Council playing in Australian-State Government cooperation in the development of Australia's mineral resources? 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the paper. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, arises from the concern caused by the Minister's reported statements on the supporting mothers benefit. Is it the Government's intention to change the qualifications necessary for applicants to secure the supporting mothers benefit? Are allowances now available in addition to the benefit to be removed in the case of unmarried mothers? Does a question of moral judgment rather than need condition the Minister's and the Government's views in assessing who should receive such benefits? 
I thank the Senate. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
In so moving, I should say that when I came into the chamber I did not think that the Opposition would take this step. However, in view of some of the comments made by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  and in view of some of the comments made earlier in the day by  Senator Rae  in questioning the Minister on this matter, I think it is important that the Senate should have the opportunity to take up the Minister's offer at the beginning of the report when he invited public debate on the contents of the paper. I believe that nowhere is more appropriate for public debate than in this House. 
On reading the Minister's statement and on reading the paper, it seems that considerable attention is being paid to people who are concerned about what the weather will be like for football matches, cricket matches and going to the beach. It seems also that little concern has been had for those people who are dependent very much on the nature of the weather in their occupations, and indeed for their lives. I refer, of course, to the fishermen on the north-western, the western and the southern coasts of Tasmania and in northern parts of Australia who have in the past relied very heavily on the actual reports of the weather situation in their areas. It seems to me that as the Bureau is concerned about its expenditure and is willing to ask the public about where its expenditure should go, before making cuts in expenditure, as it has done in Tasmania, it should have waited for people's response to this Paper. Therefore, I have moved my motion to give those people an opportunity to give their opinions to the Minister and to the Bureau as well as to give their members of Parliament the information they require to continue the debate on this issue.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. When was the Minister, as the caretaker Attorney-General, informed by his Department of the allegations about  Mr Garland  that were published on 6 December? 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the paper. 
-I should like publicly to congratulate  Senator Laucke,  who is not in the Chair, on his election as  President  of the Senate.  Senator Laucke  is respected by us all as a gentle man and a fair man. I vividly remember his demonstrating his courage in this place not long before the election when he defended his old friend and political colleague,  Sir Thomas  Playford, from the insults and the innuendoes of the then Leader of his own Party, the now Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers).  I think  Senator Laucke  will be an excellent  President.  I would have preferred our own nominee but I, like ali other honourable senators here, am very happy that  Senator Laucke  is in the Chair. 
Similarly, I congratulate  Senator Tom  DrakeBrockman on his election as  Chairman  of Committees.  Senator Drake-Brockman  is liked and respected by every honourable senator in this chamber. In his short time in the Chair yesterday he quickly demonstrated to those of us who had not seen him in the Chair before his skill and his knowledge of the Standing Orders. I congratulate also the new honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches. They certainly have knowledge in their fields. I express the hope- I am afraid it is a vain hope- that they do not contract the verbal diarrhoea that everyone in this chamber, even someone like me who has only been here 1 8 months, contracts after a very short time. 
It is always a pleasure to follow  Senator Missen  in a debate, particularly when he makes a speech like the one he made this afternoon. He demonstrated this afternoon the tolerance he has so often demonstrated both in this chamber and in committees of the Parliament. He demonstrated that he is willing to listen to the other man's point of view. He demonstrated that he is willing to modify his points of view and also express his points of view without fear of the consequences. He has done this many times in this place. But I think, idealistically as  Senator Missen  spoke, that what he was suggesting to members of the Opposition as to what we could do about the constitutional issues and the constitutional problems that face this country is stretching the credibility of his argument a little too far. What  Senator Missen  was really suggesting was that we should be quiet, we should be good, and that we should not bring up the matter again. He was suggesting that perhaps in about six or nine months time issues such as the powers of the Governor-General, who at the moment seems to have the powers of an absolute monarchy, and the powers of the Senate, which at the moment is the most powerful House of Parliament in the world, and the problems created by these powers, which have been confirmed by the actions of the Governor-General in November and the elections since, can be discussed perhaps at a constitutional convention. 

 Senator Greenwood nods his head but also smiles. No one on this side of the chamber or, I suggest, on that side of the chamber- not even  Senator Wright-  and certainly no one in the House of Representatives will suggest to me or to anyone else that, while John Malcolm Fraser is the Prime Minister of this country and we have a conservative regime such as that we have now, there will be any possibility of constitutional amendment or even discussion of constitutional amendment on this issue. What  Mr Fraser  is about and what the others are about is power, and any constitutional amendment would decrease that power. I agree with  Senator Missen  that these matters should be discussed and should be looked at. I have no faith that they will be looked at in the next  2Vi  years that I will be in this place. 
Similarly, I agree with  Senator Missen  that one of the pleasures in the short time that he and I have been in this place has been to take part in the committees which have investigated various issues. But I just cannot see, and I do not think  Senator Missen  can see, if he really thinks about it, his Government allowing the setting up of a committee such as the one on which he and I, along with Senators Chaney and Wright, sat, which investigated the National Compensation Bill and which came down with a report that was critical of our Government. I cannot see this Government allowing that to happen and, with the numbers that are on that side, I am sure that such a Bill would not be referred to such a committee. I am very certain that a report such as the report of the committee of which  Senator Rae  was  chairman,  following  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, on the securities and exchange laws in this country will never come down while this Government is in power. I am sure that there will be no legislation such as the Family Law Bill. With the big majority which the Government has in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, what  Senator Steele  Hall predicted after the election will come true- this chamber will go to sleep. There will not be the useful committee system that there was previously. Very few people will sit in the Gallery and listen to  Senator Wright  and myself. 

 - Senator Jessop was described as our big, brave, junior senator from South Australia. The word 'junior' referred not to the position to which he was elected but to his cerebral development.  Senator Jessop  will not be a rebel in this place.  Senator Wright  may occasionally cross the floor or speak against his 
Government.  Senator Rae  certainly will do so, as will  Senator Missen.  But the rest of the Government senators will be quiet or will yap from behind the picket fences, which are made up of their numbers, like so many scotch terriers. 
The Address-in-Reply debate always offers an opportunity for general discussions and we have already had a variety of discussions on various topics in the 2 short days of this debate. We heard a very skilful speech by  Senator Messner  on small business. We heard  Senator Knight  speak about his interest in women's affairs. We heard  Senator Sim  give his useful speech on the necessity for another war.  Senator Sheil  has given us an extraordinary example of what Ayn Rand is all about, although I will have to read  Atlas Shrugged  and the other books again to get the sort of interpretation which he placed on it. The events that led to the election did not surprise some of us. I can remember predicting in a speech in October or September, before the double dissolution occurred, that this sort of thing probably would happen because the people in this country who control the wealth, who have the vested interests and who pull the strings in the Liberal Party were not going to brook any attack on their privileges. They had used their resources and they did use their resources to cause the double dissolution. There was a combination of a Prime Minister who was of their own ilk, a Chief Justice who was always a political operator and a compliant GovernorGeneral; and the aim was achieved. As I said, we seem now to have a Governor-General who has the powers of an absolute monarch. 
The worst effect of the election and of what has happened is that more and more groups in the community and more and more people in the community believe that Parliament just does not hold the answer to their justifiable aspirations or their desires to achieve various aims. My concern is that in the long term, or perhaps even in the short term, those people will be added to in sufficient numbers that they will use extraparliamentary methods. One would hope that those extra-parliamentary methods would not burgeon into violence, but if people look outside the boundaries of this country and look at what is happening in the rest of the world-apart from the Cocos Islands, with which  Senator Sheil  is very impressed- they can see what happens when all the power in a country is concentrated in the hands of a few and a large number of people feel that they cannot get anywhere. 
I am talking about the power of people such as the members of Patrick Partners who can put people into the position where they have to take pensions when they do not want to, who are all broke themselves when they are brought to book for their crimes and whose only common feature is that they all have wealthy wives. When one of them gets into this Parliament, I think it is a disgrace to the honourable senator's Party. 
That is one of the privileges of being in this Parliament. 
The cowardly action in the election was the action that was taken to slap a stop writ on all the newspapers in the electorate concerned to stop them mentioning the Patrick Partners case.  Mr Fraser's  speech, as delivered in this chamber, like most speeches from the throne- whether from our side or the other sidebut perhaps more than most, was very strong on cliches and generalisations. It seemed to me to be very light on detail. But then I suppose that that reflects the mind of the person who wrote it. 
I think that, taking it together with the previous utterances of the Prime Minister and the subsequent actions of the Government, we can all look at a pattern developing which I believe should give us all reason for concern. The first ringing phrase that I can ever remember coming from our present Prime Minister was during a discourse on his philosophy at a conference in this city, when he assured everyone who was present that life was not meant to be easy. I thought that was a bit rich really, coming from a man who is a member of the squattocracy and who left a private school and went straight to Oxford and then very shortly afterwards came into this Parliament and has been here ever since. I thought it was a bit rich for a man who considers that one of the essentials of life is to hire a butler and to make sure that his drivers wear coats and caps even in the stifling climate that we have had in the last few days. I did not realise that what he really meant was that life was meant to be hard for all those who are less fortunate than himself. Added to that is his latest key phrase- we have heard it many times since the election and especially since the selection of the Cabinet- that there are no soft options for Australians. No soft options for which Australians? For  Mr Fraser  and his grazier colleagues? Or are there no soft options for the wage earners and underprivileged in this country? 
I think that the sort of thing we must look at is his extraordinary comment that the 6.4 per cent wage indexation rise will exclusively insulate from inflation those who are dependent on arbitration for their wages while leaving the rest of the community vulnerable. That is surely an extraordinary statement. The Prime Minister knows, or he should know, and certainly his colleagues and the Treasury know that those in this country who are insulated from inflation are the large possessors of capital and the large businesses which are able to hand on the increases in prices and the professional groups who are able to lift their fees and fix their fees without any restrictions. If wage indexation insulates the wage earners of this country from the effects of inflation it will be the first time in history that this has happened. Of course indexation does not do this. Wage indexation in a time of difficulty such as we are experiencing can help to protect the wage earner. Against the wishes of  Mr Street, Mr Fraser  tried to prevent the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from giving the 6.4 per cent wage rise. 
Let us look at some of the actions of the Government since coming to office and see what sort of picture we can develop. The pensioners of this country have had their promised pension increase delayed by a month to save a paltry $20m. This has happened despite an election promise that the new method of fixing pension rises- indexing them to the movement in the consumer price index- would enable the new Government to give pensioners their pension increases early and more promptly. It was said that under this new method pensioners would not have to wait for the average weekly earnings to be calculated. Funeral benefits were abolished. These benefits were inadequate, 1 will admit, but they were withdrawn at a time of economic difficulty in order to save about $ 1 m. The result of this action is that the pensioners of this country are in a state of uncertainty as to just what will happen next. That is not surprising, because it seems that the Government is in a state of uncertainty about what it should do. 
Hearing aid charges were imposed and 2 days later the charges were removed. We had the introduction of radio and television licences and the next minute they were off. If the Government does not know what it is doing how can the pensioners and other underprivileged people in this country know where they are going? I know that we hear members of the Government say that what we need is business confidence, that the businessmen in this country need confidence. Surely in an affluent society like ours, in an allegedly civilised society like ours, pensioners need confidence. The less fortunate need confidence. They have a right to be certain of their future and of what is happening in this community. 
Much play is made of the necessity to ensure that social welfare benefits go to those who are in need of them. I think this is a sentiment which is shared by every member of this chamber and by most people in the community. How has the Government gone about ensuring that benefits are received by those in need? What are the first things the government has done to ensure that any of the social welfare benefits in this community go to those who really need them? The first thing we saw happened before the election campaign began, and seeing  Senator Sheil  sitting opposite me reminds me of it. A great state of hysteria was stirred up in the community about the so-called dole bludgers. I can remember  Senator Sheil  saying that they were all fornicating on the foreshores of the Gold Coast. Perhaps  Senator Sheil  saw this on one of his voyeuristic trips down to the beaches. Never have any figures been produced to prove or to let us know how many of these so-called dole bludgers there were- just claims that there were thousands, that there were millions, that they were everywhere. There has never been any reference to the fact that although the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and other committees of inquiry have gone looking for these so-called dole bludgers who have been littering the beaches, they have never been able to find them in any significant numbers. 
This campaign about dole bludgers has had 2 effects. Firstly, it gave the excuse for a strict work test to be applied before unemployment benefit was paid. All sorts of things were to be taken into account- length of hair, dress and general appearance. The worst part of this strict work test was that the people working in the employment offices who were assessing people for unemployment benefit were to be set up as moral judges. The vast majority of them did not want this power, and the few who did were not fit to use it. We soon had examples of girls from Bowral being sent 200 miles to take jobs as barmaids. They were told that if they did not go they would lose their unemployment benefit. We had another example of a girl in Dubbo being told that she had to go to Melbourne or she would lose her unemployment benefit. Sanctimonious moral judges, like the honourable senator opposite who interjected and, I think, said 'tut tut' and tapped the table, said: 'This is the only just thing to do'. 
That was bad enough, but the worst and the second effect of this campaign about dole bludgers was that it created in the community an atmosphere that everywhere there were these people who were bludging on the community. All the unemployed bored this stigma of being unemployed. Everyone who was unemployed was looked on as a dole bludger. Added to their normal anxiety from being unemployed and to the normal difficulties that they experience while they are unemployed was this state of anxiety and this stigma which was unnecessary. This should not have happened. Bodies like the Brotherhood of St Laurence reported that the innocent were being caught up in these ridiculous work tests and were having to be dealt with by them and the voluntary agencies. These bodies predicted that this would happen before the work test was applied. I believe that a time of high inflation and high unemployment is not the time to start a blitz like this on the least privileged in the community, and it is not the time to put these people in the state of mind of being uncertain about what will happen to them. The odd $40m or $50m saved is nothing in the deficit of $4,000m and is certainly no excuse to cause further suffering. 
To compond this insult the Government chose to give the equivalent amount of money away in that famous bounty, the superphosphate bounty. Everyone in this chamber knows that the superphosphate bounty does not go to the battling farmer in any significant amount. It goes to the group that is so well represented by the Prime Minister- the wealthy large pseudoaristocratic farmers of this country who are insulated by their wealth from the problems of inflation, and the large farming companies like AMATIL which have large holdings and which have no need at all for this bounty. The bounty, as it is applied, bears no relationship to the socalled needs principle which was laid down in the policy speech from the Throne as the basic principle for handing out this sort of thing. 
The whole problem with the social security system, which  Senator Missen  mentioned, is that the Government knows, as does any thinking person who looks at the problem, that the only way to bring adequate social security to all citizens of Australia is through the redistribution of wealth. Every government has to face up to this problem sooner or later. It is this basic fact which will, I believe, prevent any effective system of social security from being developed in this country while the present Government is in power. Conservative governments are persistently and consistently reluctant to introduce social reform. We have heard Government senators say that social reform is no function of government. Honourable senators know that those who influence the way in which the Liberal Party and the National Country Party do things will be utterly opposed to any redistribution of wealth in this country. Therefore it will not happen. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  succeeds in her efforts and, I am sure, her desire to reform the social security system so that social security benefits go to those who need them and that the income support schemes and the income security schemes prevent people from getting into the position where they need social security benefits. 1 know she would like to do these things, I know she would want to do these things, but she knows she cannot do these things and she will not be able to do these things because the people who are in her Government will not let her do these things. 
I believe that the inevitable result of this Government's collective actions will be the development of a degree of cynicism in the community and particularly a degree of cynicism in the labour force, which has been unheard of previously. Look at the attitude of the union movement to the actions of the Government now. As I mentioned earlier, we know that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser decided to go back on his promise to uphold the principles of wage indexation. We know that he said that wage indexation was to be supported and that at the next Arbitration Court hearing the increase tied to the cost of living index would be supported. We saw the cynicism of the unions and the absolute dismay of people such as  Sir Gordon  Chalk and  Mr Hamer,  many of the newspapers and, one suspects,  Mr Street,  when  Mr Fraser  threw this wage indexation promise out the window. We saw that Justice Moore and the other justices of the Arbitration Court were not amused or impressed by the arguments of the Commonwealth Government. 
What worries me is that now that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and his colleagues have not got their way with the Arbitration Commission, how long it will be before he decides to change the ground rules of the arbitration system because the present ground rules do not suit him. There has been much speculation about this and we know from the events of previous weeks that much of the speculation about Government actions has come to pass. I fear such action being taken because I fear its result. We will have industrial and social chaos. There will be social and industrial action outside the Court. The result will be one mess. The big fault with such a situation will be that the industrially powerful will succeed and triumph and the less powerful fall by the wayside. All the social security, industrial and agricultural policy decisions made by the Government up to now have been aimed at the preservation of the status quo and the same areas of privilege in society. But to achieve this permanent status quo- to achieve this state of social inertia- the Government will have to keep the lid on the legitimate claims of millions of Australians. How long can this be done without draconian type measures which are more suited to countries like Spain, Chile, pre-revolutionary Portugal and some of the communist countries? Perhaps this is what  Mr Fraser  wants and what his colleagues want. 
As a Tasmanian I share the concern expressed by  Senator Rae  and expressed also by  Sir Gordon  Chalk,  Mr Kevin  Cairns and the Labor premiers,  Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Neilson,  concerning the proposals contained in the Government's federalism policy which, I understand, is the brainchild of  Senator Carrick.  My anxiety is aggravated by statements made recently by  Sir EricWillis,  who said that the smaller States are getting too much of the tax money and by  Mr Wentworth  last year when he said that the people of New South Wales and Victoria are sick of paying for the smaller States. I am further concerned by the favourable remarks about the Canadian system by the advocates of the new federalism system setting up Canada as the shining example. They say: 'It works in Canada, it's wonderful, let's have it here'. As  Senator Rae  pointed out in a column he wrote in a newspaper the other day, anyone who suggests while in the smaller States of Canada that the Canadian system is wonderful is very likely to get stoned because in the smaller States of Canada taxes are 5 to 6 per cent higher, facilities are worse and resources that the people are able to use are worse. These people do not like this system at all. The myth that the Canadian system is perfect and that we should copy it is very wrong. I believe and have always believed that this country is one country and that it should not be considered as a collection of competitive States. We have to realise that this country surely has to develop as a whole and the only way to develop as a whole is to distribute some of the income from the larger, more populous States- the larger, more wealthy States. Often these larger States, especially in the case of Victoria, are more wealthy mainly because the headquarters of so many firms that have their operations in the smaller States are located in Melbourne and Sydney and the firms pay their taxes from there. It is important that we do not rush into a system with the excuse that we are going to make the States more responsible. If we get into a tax war between States in their attempts to attract industries to each of those States the smaller States will not be able to compete with the larger States or, if they do try to compete, the smaller States and their citizens will suffer. If this happens the whole country will suffer. 
I believe that those honourable senators opposite in the Liberal Party- I believe there may even be some in the National Country Partywho have misgivings about the new federalism policy should make sure that there is careful discussion about the matter and that a bad system is not rammed down the throats of the smaller States. I hope that we do not end up with a system whereby great tax differences exist between the various States and whereby we have great competition between the various States to set up industries. 
In conclusion I should like to say that although I view with grave misgivings the future plans of the Government as set out in the speech of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser which was read by the GovernorGeneral, I hope that there are sufficient people such as  Senator Missen  on the other side of the chamber who have sufficient influence on what I see as the extremely conservative attitude of so many of their senators, particularly members of the Cabinet. I hope there are sufficient to remind the Prime Minister and some of his Cabinet colleagues that there are other people in the community who are not as fortunate as they are and who need help and some distribution of the wealth that they do not have. If this does not happen  Senator James  McClelland 's predictions will come true. The first prediction is that inflation may go through the roof and that will be bad enough. But if inflation does go through the roof and if the wealth of this country becomes more and more confined to a small group in the community then we will have social breakdown and social chaos. These are things that I fear most as consequences of the actions of 1 1 November and the resultant election. I think the words of D. H. Lawrence sometimes are the best to follow, when he said: 
If we are all of good faith and are not afraid of change we need not be afraid. 
Some of us on this side of the chamber are afraid because so many people on the other side of the chamber are afraid of change. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Baume)  adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: In view of the confusion and the anxiety in the minds of those who are concerned with child care matters in this country, will the Minister give a detailed statement of cuts to the proposed Children's Commission expenditure? Will the Minister also clarify her statement that there will be a slowing down of approved programs? Does this mean the delaying of buildings and projects already started or does it mean that their starting time will be delayed? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security give the Senate some advice as to the future of the program supporting welfare rights officers, particularly in the various ethnic, welfare and other organisations? 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that today a list of some 45 drugs to be deleted from the pharmaceutical benefits list, including all the long acting antihistamines, has been circulated to doctors and pharmacists in this country and that the frequency of the publication of the list of benefits is to be reduced? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the names of the drugs that are to be deleted and the reasons for their removal from the list? Also, what will be the saving to the Government as a result of their removal from the list and what will be the saving to the Government as a result of the cut in the frequency of the printing of that pharmaceutical benefits list? 
-The Opposition intends to oppose the National Health Bill 1976, the first Bill which has passed to the Senate from another place in this Thirtieth Parliament. If our opposition to the Bill in the second reading stage does not succeed, as a review of the numbers would make it seem likely, we will then oppose in the Committee stage the clauses which we believe should be dropped from the Bill. We intend to oppose the second reading of this Bill because we believe that in the light of the present economic circumstances and because of the Government's stated adherence to the needs principle in social security we must keep the Government honest and must ensure that it keeps to its self-proclaimed standards. We believe also that it would be better if the Bill were withdrawn by the Minister and further consideration given to the implications that this legislation will have upon those in need in the community. 
The Bill seeks to amend the National Health Act by increasing from $1.50 to $2 the patient's contribution for pharmaceutical benefits and to remove the pharmaceutical concession enjoyed by some beneficiaries under the subsidised health scheme. In fact, the Bill will terminate the subsidised health plan benefits. The Bill also seeks to bring to an end certain Commonwealth health benefits rendered redundant by Medibank. This latter provision we do not oppose. I point out in passing that when we were in government we tried to do much the same thing. We were prevented from doing this by the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition. Clauses 4 and 7 of the then legislation covered some of these items. We did not understand the opposition to this proposal then and we do not understand the Government's change of heart now. 
Our main objection to the Bill concerns what we consider to be the false sense of priorities of the Government. We, like Government supporters and like most members in the Parliament, agree with the principle that benefits in the fields of social security and health should go to those in need. We are aware of the difficulties the Government has created for itself in seeking to cut government expenditure by a large sum to give the appearance of its being a thrifty, responsible and cautious Government, but we do not believe that this is the way to go about it. We think it is ironical that the first Bill we should deal with in the Senate in this session concerns the cutting of certain benefits to those in need. It is obvious that in this Bill the Government, in its desperate search for cost cutting measures, has cut right across its proclaimed principle that it and the people of this country should care for its citizens who need care and should care for the less fortunate members of our community. We believe that this legislation may cause considerable hardship to such people. 
Our objections to the Bill lie in the provisions of clauses 12, 13 and 14 which seek to increase to $2 the contribution by patients for pharmaceutical benefits and to remove the concession previously available under the subsidised health plan. In the last year- I am the first to admit for reasons of economy- we increased patient contribution from $ 1 to $ 1 .50 for benefits available under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. We regretted the necessity to do so. We cannot see the necessity, in such a short time, to add a further 50 per cent increase, thus increasing the contribution by 100 per cent in less than one year. 
We accept the principle, and we believe that most supporters of the Government now accept the principle, that financial obstacles should not be placed in the way of citizens seeking adequate medical care. We believe that the added anxiety caused by the cost of medical care, in this case by the cost of pharmaceutical needs, can be a barrier to the prompt and adequate recovery of people from illness. We believe that the 50c increase so soon is out of proportion to inflationary trends and out of proportion to any increase in the cost of drugs and has added a burden, not to most of us here who are relatively healthy and on an adequate income - 
-With the exception, 1 gather, of  Senator Button.  It has added a burden to people with repeated illness, chronic illness and especially to people with many children who may have chronic illness. An example which comes to mind most is the family with asthmatic children. Frequently more than one child has asthma. They need, at least at certain times of the year, constant medication and some have associated respiratory diseases. The burden of this legislation may well present a considerable economic strain to such a family. For a family which is on the subsidised health benefit the increase will be very considerable. To reply to this argument as did the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in another place that such people can go to an outpatients clinic and there obtain medical benefits free or get their drugs at a reduced fee in some States is, I believe, completely unrealistic. For example in the area in which I practised the nearest outpatients clinic was from 10 to 25 miles away. There was virtually no public transport. Many places, particularly on the mainland, are in a much worse situation. The cost and the inconvenience of gelling patients lo such a clinic create an impossible situation for the parents or the mother of such a family. The cost of getting the other children cared for while the mother attends a clinic adds to the burden and creates a situation which we believe should not exist in this country. The subsidised health benefit plan has always been unsatisfactory. It was unsatisfactory from the day it was introduced. We suggest that this time of economic difficulty is not the time to throw the thing out holus-bolus. Although the plan was inadequate and it was relatively costly to administer- although I have no way of checking the figures that were quoted in the Minister's second reading speech- it would surely be more appropriate to find a substitute plan, to find a better method to help the people who were helped by this scheme, to find a plan which people would accept and which would be easily accessible to them rather than to throw the thing out and replace it with nothing, no matter what the economic circumstances. 
People who are beneficiaries under this plan will have their prescription costs increased considerablyfrom some 75c to $2 per item. Fortunately for these people Medibank now covers their hospital costs. But as many doctors in this country refuse to bulk bill, when these people become ill they will have, unless they are in hospital, a gap to make up in their payment to their doctor plus $2 per item on prescriptions. This again, in the case of a large family or in the case of a low income earner, may be a considerable burden. 
As the Minister pointed out in her second reading speech, the people who are eligible for these benefits are low income families, people on unemployment and sickness benefits and other special benefits and migrants during their first 2 months in Australia in the settling down period. It was my experience- probably because the migrants were informed about the scheme as soon as they arrived in Australia- that particularly the migrant group seemed to know about this scheme and benefited from this scheme, perhaps in greater proportion than some other groups. We ask: Do we really need to burden the migrants, some of the unemployed and sick and some of the people on special benefits with extra costs in economic times such as we are experiencing now? Are our priorities right in doing this? Will the $2m saved by the removal of this benefit be worth the effort? 
The subsidised health plan did not work well for many reasons. It was a bureaucratically awkward scheme. It did not reach a sufficiently high proportion of those it was meant to benefit. Primarily this was because it was a hurriedly conceived scheme, conceived at a time when the inadequacies of the previous Government's health insurance scheme in Australia were becoming obvious. We had had the Nimmo report and the controversy between the Australian Medical Association, the then Government and the voluntary health funds. Barriers were thrown up very quickly against the Labor Party's proposals for an adequate national health insurance scheme. We, when in government, were investigating means of overcoming the difficulties of the scheme and, the difficulties that those people who were eligible for the benefits were obviously finding. We were trying to get a better scheme whereby people would know that such a scheme existed. We believe that until such investigations are carried out and until a better scheme is introduced, it is wrong to throw out this scheme and it is wrong to leave the gap which will be left by this scheme. 
I believe that the effects on the people in Australia of increases in pharmaceutical costs which will be caused by this legislation will be considerable and will lead to difficulties. I and most of us who have had experience in this field believe that the whole pharmaceutical benefits scheme needs careful scrutiny. When in Government we had commenced this scrutiny and were carefully looking at the scheme. It is obvious that the present Government is doing this also. I give the Government credit for doing so. The announcement of the modification in the pharmaceutical benefits available to patients is obviously a start towards reforming this scheme. I certainly would be the first to admit that there are items on the pharmaceutical benefits list that should not be there. I believe that there are probably items that should be there. I believe that the actual cost of many of the items is so low- in fact below the patient contributions- that except for pensioners and other needy people in the community they could be removed from the scheme, thereby relieving the scheme of some administrative burden and administrative costs. I believe there are items provided under the scheme that are of dubious medical value. 
I have not prepared a list of examples. I will prepare a list for  Senator Baume.  There are some items I would like on thescheme when I think of  Senator Baume.  There is no simple answer to the listing or non listing of drugs. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme has had one benefit in that it has been an influence in restraining price increases in drugs in Australia. We must be careful lest simplistic answers, like the de-listing and listing of drugs cause some escalation in prices. 
Our attitude, I think, has always been clear. We believe in lifting the financial barriers to health care in this country. We regretted the increase in prescription charges last year. We cannot see the need for further increases so soon. We believe in an integrated health and social security service and, therefore, we recognise the inadequacies of the subsidised health plan and accept that its high administrative costs were a difficulty. But we do not believe that such a service, inadequate as it is, should be withdrawn without the substitution of a better plan. We also believe that times of economic difficulty are not the appropriate times for cutting out benefits aimed at the needy. For that reason we will oppose the second reading and will ask the Government to withdraw the Bill and to reconsider it. As 1 said in my opening remarks, failing that course of action we will oppose the offending clauses at the Committee stage. 
Clauses 12, 13 and 14 are the ones which the Opposition intends to oppose. These clauses have the effect of adding 50c to the existing prescription charge of $ 1 .50, making it $2, and removing the health benefit prescription subsidy. We are opposing them because we think this action at this time is inappropriate and is inconsistent with the Government's stated policy, that policy being that social welfare benefits of this type should go to people in need. These clauses are taking benefits away from people who need them. 
Certainly in the Budget last year we raised the prescription charge from $1 to $1.50. As a government we regretted doing that and some of us individually regretted that it had to be done. I should like to add that I think the figures which  Senator Baume  cited earlier supported our contention that a further rise of 50c means that there has been a rise in prescription charges of 100 per cent in less than a year. We fail to see how that can be justified in view of any of the inflation figures or cost increase figures that have been made available. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said, we recognise that there are deficiencies in the subsidised health benefit plan. It was suggested that in the 3 years that we were in government we should have done something about it. I have said that we planned and were investigating changes. 
I should also like to point out that we had two terms of 1 8 months with a 3 months gap in the middle for a double dissolution. We made so many other changes in social reform that not even a government of which I was a supporter could do everything. The point is that we did not throw the whole thing out. We did not suddenly say that it is inefficient, which we admit it is. and that it does not cover all the people that it should cover, which we also admit. We did not say: Right, we will throw the whole thing out and disadvantage that group of people, those new migrants and those people on unemployment benefits, sickness benefits and other special benefits'. We did not disadvantage them by throwing the whole thing out and substituting nothing in its place. 
I believe some honourable senators have been taking the wrong attitude to our argument on this legislation.  Senator Jessop  suggested that we use economic policy to discipline the doctors of this country to write fewer prescriptions. The effect of that economic policy, first of all, would not be to discipline the doctors and, secondly, would disadvantage that group of patients who are completely innocent but who need medicines and other prescriptions to overcome their illnesses.  Senator Knight's  statement that it is regrettable that the Government has to use measures like this to encourage economic growth is incredible. How bumping up of prescription fees from $ 1.50 to $2 and how disadvantaging a group of people, who are getting special concessions, by bumping up their prescription fees from 75c to $2, will encourage economic growth in this country is beyond me. 
We question the necessity for these cuts. We question the whole Government policy of cutting Government expenditure the way it is doing. We certainly question why, and we certainly regret that the Government in the first piece of legislation to come into this place in this Parliament should indulge in making cuts in Government spending which affect this group of people. To suggest that these people will not be affected because they can go to the outpatients' clinics of public hospitals and receive free medicine is nonsense and heartless. It is an absolutely heartless attitude to adopt to people who live 20 miles or 30 miles from a public hospital. It is a cruel attitude to adopt to a mother who has five or six children, whose husband is at work, who has not got a car and who has to use public transport or a taxi to get to a public hospital and to find people to look after her children while she is at the hospital. It is just as heartless an attitude to adopt if a woman has a car, because she still has to make arrangements for her children to be cared for while she is at the hospital. We think that this is inappropriate legislation. We think that it is an inappropriate thing to do, even within the context of the Government's policy of cutting Government spending. We believe that it is completely contrary to the Government's policy of looking after those in need. I hate to upset my friends in the National Country Party, but when we consider the amount of money saved under this proposal and the amount of money that will be spent on the superphosphate bounty, which also bears no relation to the Government's stated concept of helping those in need, we think that this is a ludicrous piece of legislation. Therefore, we will oppose these 3 clauses. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to Press reports that a bricklayer in Queensland has been refused unemployment benefit because he turned down a job the conditions of which did not comply with his industrial award. Is it a policy of the Department of Social Security that benefits will be refused to workers who refuse to accept jobs the conditions of which are below the award provisions? Does the Government intend to support arbitration conditions, or is the withholding of unemployment benefit to be used as a method of breaking down such conditions. 
My question is directed to  Senator Greenwood  in his capacity as Minister acting for the Leader of the Government in the Senate and representing the Prime Minister in that acting capacity. I refer  Senator Greenwood  to the statement by  Senator Withers  at question time yesterday that the purpose of question time is not to seek information but for the Opposition to seek to embarrass Ministers. I ask the Minister: Is this the general attitude of Ministers in both Houses? If not, will he give the Senate the names of Ministers who hold this view, apart from the obvious ones-  Senator Withers  and  Senator Carrick-  so that Opposition senators can divide their questions among those Ministers who are willing to give information? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper: 
We of the Opposition welcome this report, as we welcome any other reports on the progress of the Australian Assistance Plan. We believe that the Australian Assistance Plan was an imaginative plan. Indeed, it was welcomed initially by the then Opposition's spokesman on social security,  Mr Chipp.  One of the difficulties that the Plan has experienced has been the fact that opposition to the Plan by conservative governments in various States put a layer of fear over the people who were working under it. I believe that this opposition was based on their fear of allowing the local and regional areas of this country to have further power over decision-making in their own areas. I believe it is ironical that the conservative governments in this country, which made such a fuss about the allegedly centralist policies of the Labor Government, vigorously and almost invariably opposed such Australian Labor Party initiatives as direct aid to local government, the innovations program in the field of education and the Australian Assistance Plan, which gave to local government areas and local government groups the power to make decisions. 
Like so many other delays in the field of social security, this delay in the Government's deciding just what is to happen makes for a period of uncertainty. The 3-year period of the Plan is almost running out. Many of these people really have no idea just what to expect. As I said before, the Plan has always had a cloud over it because of the opposition from  Senator Sheil's  conservative friends. It seems likely that this uncertainty will continue for some time. The statement of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  mentions the Bland Administrative Review Committee. We on this side of the Senate certainly would hope that when the decision is made about the Australian 
Assistance Plan a great deal of weight is given to the results of the AAP and its various schemes and the potential results. We hope that any decision will not be made entirely on administrative grounds on a recommendation of the Bland Committee.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true that the number of appeals to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in New South Wales has increased considerably in the last few months? Is it also true that appellants now have a 6-months wait until their appeals are heard? Is a disproportionate number of appeals coming from the northern rivers district of New South Wales? Finally, is the Social Security Appeals Tribunal function being used as a delaying mechanism to frustrate the right of appellants to receive benefits? 
My question which I direct to the Minister for Education refers to the report on post-secondary education in Tasmania which was tabled in the Senate yesterday. In view of the fact that Premier Neilson has announced that the State Government in Tasmania agrees in principle with the recommendations of the report, when can we expect a decision from the Federal Government announcing its attitude to the report and whether the necessary financial resources will be available to the Tasmanian Government to carry out those recommendations? 
-I think that  Senator Baume  has been a little unfair to  Senator Colston  who, I think, has made a reasonable claim for reconsideration of this problem. I agree with  Senator Baume  and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee that milk substitutes have been over-prescribed. They probably have been prescribed for children of a much older age group than that for which they should be prescribed. I certainly agree with  Senator Baume  that it is possible to prove scientifically in many cases that some children do need a milk substitute and that some do not need a milk substitute; but most of us who practise in this country just are not able to do this. We have no facilities to enable us to work out whether a child needs these substitutes. We have no way of doing this, except by trial and error. Certainly most of the evidence is anecdotal and I agree that that is not very scientific; but it will be very difficult to prove to me, to other people in general practice in isolated areas and to the parents of the children with asthma and in more usual cases with abdominal conditions and eczema whom we see improve so much after they go on to cows' milk substitutes that this is not effective. Although the evidence is not scientific and is not based on all sorts of scientific tests, the effect of putting these children back on milk at five, six, seven or eight years of age is sometimes quite dramatic. 
Certainly milk is not an essential food for children of this age group. I accept that we probably feed our children too much milk. I notice that  Senator Baume  's colleagues from the National Country Party are not in the chamber at the moment. They will be very interested to hear his comments on this matter and they will scream blue murder when they read them in  Hansard  tomorrow. However, I agree with  Senator Baume  that we must bear with this sort of thing. It is not easy in our society to just wipe milk out of the diet. It is not only the stuff that we drink; it is in bread, cake, biscuits and many other things which people in our society normally eat. Many parents use these milk substitutes in foods in the home. It seems to me that this is a case of mistaken priorities. These products should have been put on authority only. They could have been much more strictly policed. What has happened is that the whole range has just been wiped out. I have no doubt that some kids will suffer. There is certainly no doubt that they are very expensive products if people have to use it! I am convinced, although the evidence again is anecdotal or based on individual cases, that there are some people who need them. I think the decision has been a bit rash. I certainly agree with  Senator Baume  and I hope the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee keeps this matter under constant review. I think we must remember that in Africa particularly, as  Senator Baume  knows, milk intolerance is a very common condition. But it is not confined to Africans; it exists in our community, and to a much higher age than this new regulation will allow. 
I just hope that the whole thing can be looked at again carefully and some formula worked out so that children who do need it at a much older age- I am sure there are such children- can be catered for. If there is no easy way to do this, I doubt if it is worth while to cut it right out to save the small amount of money that will be saved. I just emphasise that it seems to me that all the savings in all the field of health and social security are going to be aimed at catching a few people who may have abused the system, to save a small amount of money. I do not like the way in which the tendency to do this is going. I think the matter should be looked at again. I am sure that as in the case of Diazepam, I assume, and some other drugs on which  Senator Baume  is a great authority, there may be evidence in these cases. If the honourable senator's distinguished works have been missed out in the consideration of other drugs, there are some other distinguished physicians in the world who may have had their work missed out too. I think that the matter is to be looked at carefully. 
Some of the drugs we use are not based on strict scientific evidence. Digoxin was used for many many years without a control trial ever being done. I doubt whether a control trial has ever been done on the use of digoxin. Therefore I think the thing is worth looking at. I think in these cases we cannot just rely on strict scientific evidence. I think the Minister or the Minister's colleague in another place should look carefully at the situation. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of delays and difficulties being experienced by claimants for unemployment benefit in the northern rivers area of New South Wales? Is he aware of allegations of discriminatory practices and attitudes towards registrants for unemployment benefit by a particular Commonwealth Employment Service office? Have there been complaints of physical abuse of registrants for unemployment benefit in this area? If so, what action is being taken about such complaints? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion 'That the Senate take note of the paper'. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the proposed pension rises which she announced last week. Does the Minister accept the fact that the value of pensions relative to average weekly earnings will have dropped by the time the first payment is made in May and will have been reduced considerably by the time the next payment after that is due in November? Will the Government modify its apparently rigid policy of increasing pensions strictly only twice yearly to allow for further increases to maintain the true value of pensions throughout the year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware that 7 1 per cent of appeals against the denial of unemployment benefits were upheld by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in 1975? That was before the recent implementation of more severe work tests for unemployment benefits. Is the Minister aware that a survey done by the Department of Social Security in September 1975 showed that only 6 per cent of those unemployed could be considered unwilling to work? In view of these facts, is the Government considering increasing the investigatory staff of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to carry out the new policy which was announced yesterday in the statement? Will the Minister confer with the Minister for Social Security to discover a means of speeding up the hearing of appeals by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal? 
I also rise to speak to the motion for the first reading of the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill 1976. Like  Senator Baume,  I have very little to say about dried fruits, dried vines or anything else in that line. I must admit that I frequently use such products while wandering through the valleys and over the mountains of Tasmania, that I enjoy them and that they sometimes keep people alive in the cold weather. I wish the producers well. Having said that, I will leave them to that famous Australian character, Dame Edna Everage, whose husband I understand is in dried fruits, and to the experts from the National Country Party in South Australia to debate the issue. I am very wary about intruding into their field for fear of what would happen to me if I started to pretend that I was an expert on the subject. 
I was provoked to join in this debate by  Senator Baume  's reactions to  Senator McLaren's  remarks.  Senator Baume  became very excited about the remarks of  Senator McLaren,  whom he considers knows nothing about the situation in the health field in this country. I am not one of those doctors who believe that one has to be a doctor to know something about the health problems of this country. There are many more patients than doctors and patients also have a very good idea about some of the things that are going on in the health field in this country. I believe that  Senator Baume  overstated his case in his desire to destroy  Senator McLaren's  case.  Senator Baume  became very excited about the second point, I believe it was, that  Senator McLaren  made about the remarks of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in a Press statement concerning salaried people leaving Commonwealth hospitals. I will concede to  Senator Baume  that there is a problem in staffing hospitals in the Northern Territory. I will even be gracious enough to concede to  Senator Baume  that part of that problem was due to the wage difficulties that we had in 1974 and 1975 in getting some sort of parity for the doctors employed by hospitals in the Northern Territory. But  Senator Baume  knows as well as I do that that is not the whole problem and that it never has been the whole problem. 
We could double salaries in the Northern Territory and we would still have, as we have always had in the past and we have always had in other isolated areas in Australia, difficulty in filling positions like this. We have difficulty in filling positions like this anywhere that is isolated. We have difficulties even in a place like Tasmania that is isolated by the 200 miles of Bass Strait. For as long as I can remember we have always had difficulties in Launceston, which is where I come from, in getting anaesthetists, residents and salaried specialists for the hospitals. It is a fact of life that doctors, who mostly grow up in the big conurbations and who are always trained in them, hate to leave them. There are rural towns in New South Wales and Victoria, as our Country Party friends would know, which cannot attract doctors even with the attraction of what I would consider in some cases to be quite enormous salaries. The difficulties of travel, the difficulties of isolation and, in particular, the difficulties of educating their children make doctors reluctant to go to such centres. Salaries are not the whole problem. I will concede that there was a problem with the salaries. I will concede that perhaps we should have tried to find some way of getting over the indexation difficulties which inhibited a proper salary rise for the doctors in the Northern Territory. But in areas like this doctors come and go. Even though the payment of very high wages may attract people to them they generally attract the majority of them to such places for only a short time and then they quickly go. 
I believe that  Senator Baume  overreacted or misconstrued  Senator McLaren's  concern for the approach that the Minister implied in his statement when he said that he was hoping that the Medibank Review Committee would pay special attention to diagnostic services in the course of its review.  Senator McLaren  went on to say, as recorded on page 700 of the Senate  Hansard  of 23 March 1976:   . . with the advent of Medibank the medical practitioner has been able to have a pathology test or an X-ray made immediately if there is any doubt, particularly in the case of children, instead of the patient's having to wait for up to a fortnight or 3 weeks before these tests could be carried out. This has been of great benefit to the underprivileged and to the people on low incomes. 
In response to those remarks  Senator Baume  said: 
What nonsense! 
I believe that in this case both honourable senators are probably right. The implication of the Minister's statement that special attention will be paid to this area of medical care is disturbing to me as well as to  Senator McLaren,  in view of our experience of what the Government's attitude has been to Medibank and other social security matters in this country. It suggests to me that the Government is considering the wrong approach in relation to the way in which it will attack this problem. I will concede that there is a problem. The cost of diagnostic services, pathological tests and radiological tests is too high. I agree with  Senator Baume  that the cost reflects the over-use of those services. To me the implied solution of the Government will be to take out the broad axe and chop these services, either by financial sanctions, such as increasing the cost of the services to the patient, or by limiting the services available to the patient. 
I think an analogy exists here with the overprescribing problem that we discussed in the last debate. The Government's approach to overprescribing was to increase prescription costs, thereby penalising the patient and trying to stop the patient having so many prescriptions, but the problem in fact lies with the doctor who overprescribes. The people who over-use and abuse diagnostic services in almost all cases- I shall come to some cases where this does not applyare the doctors and not the patients. To attack the problem by attacking the patients and the patient's use of these things I believe will get us nowhere. One result of the over-use of pathological and radiological services in this country can be seen in the Taxation Commissioner's figures of the net incomes of the various groups in the medical profession. The last exact figures which I have are for 1970-71 and they show the net taxable incomes for various groups of doctors. The net taxable income for general practitioners was $15,054, for physicians $17,900, for surgeons $23,530, for radiologists $36,100, and for pathologists $50,765. 
I will concede that, senator. It was estimated in 1975 that the figures for the top people in these groups were $32,000 for general practitioners- I am certainly in the wrong place- $47,000 for surgeons, $85,900 for radiologists and $1 12,000 for pathologists. I will be gracious enough to concede that certainly back in 1970-71 the relative income of specialists like  Senator Baume  was far too low on this scale of things. I certainly would not have given them the $50,000 in those days that the pathologists were allegedly getting, and it seems from the Taxation figures that they were getting this amount, but I think even the consultant physicians will admit that their situation has been improved a little by Medibank, and with some justification. 
One reason for the inflated level of pathologists' incomes has been the changeover from time-consuming manual methods of performing various investigations. There has been a change to automated methods, to very rapid and efficient methods, which frequently require less skill and which are frequently done by technicians. While this has happened the fee schedules- the relative costs of fees reward the pathologists- have stayed at the relatively high levels they were at when the pathologists were carrying out time-consuming and difficult tests. Before the pathologists start penning me abusive letters and marching on my front door, I concede that their work is vital, their skill is very great and their standards in this country are very high. I have great respect for them. I would like to point out that they do not form the only group in the medical profession which I consider is overpaid, which I consider gets more than it is worth. 
I have a view on accreditation. I shall come to that indirectly later. I believe that these tests have become over-valued in the schedule of fees and that we have not, for various reasons, taken a proper look at the new methods that are used and the new abilities of various people in the pathology profession. 
I think the overall position of the high costs of tests, such as pathological tests and others, would not have arisen if it were not for a sort of general malaise- for want of a better word- in the medical profession. I believe as  Senator Baume  implied last night that the medical profession has become obsessed with multi-phasic investigations. It is a technique of carrying out many investigations and hoping to pick something out of the bag when the results come in. We are not the only people who believe this. Professor Kenneth Cox, from the University of New South Wales, in an interesting article in  The Medical Journal of Australia  of 12 July last year said: 
Multi-phasic' investigations provide a seductively simple opportunity for avoiding thinking. 1 cannot tolerate this Micawber approach to diagnosis and regard it as an abdication of doctor responsibility from the obligation to work at a professional intellectual level. 
It is to me intolerable that the community should accept responsibility for a health cost structure without thorough justification of the cost-effectiveness of the investigational apparatus it is purchasing and sustaining. 
I do not think there are many people these days in the medical profession who, when spoken to privately and calmly, would not concede that that is so. I think it is interesting that doctors in rural areas who have not this accessibility to highly skilled pathological and radiological services themselves get on very well and very satisfactorily without daily recourse to these sophisticated pathological, radiological and other services. They use their clinical skill. They refer people when necessary, and in general they refer people wisely. I believe the results are good. I believe that it is a fair criticism to say that some doctors in urban areas who have complete access to this multitude of tests and investigations have let their clinical skills atrophy. I certainly share  Senator Baume  's distaste for the health screening organisations which are set up in generalalthough not always- to make a lot of money. Their cost-effectiveness in general is appalling and the reward for the use of all the modern techniques they have is very small to the patient, I believe. 
We have to get away from the general expectation in the community that unless a battery of tests are carried out the doctor has not done his job. I do not believe that this attitude is the fault of the patient. I do not believe it is the fault of the Labor Government, the Liberal Government before that or anybody else. I believe the fault for this attitude can be laid squarely at the feet of the profession. Some members of the profession have become obsessed, as I said before, with investigations. I do not believe in general that it is out of avarice, laziness or anything of that kind; it is because of the way they were taught medicine. They were taught medicine in teaching hospitals which are away from the real world in many ways. They have an unreal selection of patients. They perform tests as a routine frequently for the very good reason of gathering research data. Sometimes one wonders whether it is not just for completeness or just for medical curiosity. 
I believe it is interesting that in this country and in the United States of America a revolution is building up against this attitude within the profession and amongst medical students. They can see that the faults in the medical training system and the medical profession in general reflect some of the faults they see or they believe they see in society. What is more, patients, by their increased awareness, are reflecting this unease about the way the medical practice is going, sometimes by going in increasing numbers to unorthodox practitioners, to chemists and to all types and rather strange methods of medical treatment, sometimes to their detriment. I think they are doing this basically because they are not satisfied with what is going on in the medical profession in general. 
Chinks are appearing in the conservative armour that has surrounded the medical profession for so long. We are getting over the ghetto mentality which some of our professional organisations have. Less and less does the profession close ranks and put up a sort of immobile barrier against any outsider whenever the word reform is mentioned. I believe that people are recognising that medicine is not just a mechanistic approach to a sort of specific incidence of breakdown in the human machine. I believe in the words of a gentleman named Hagerty, who wrote in the  Journal of Medical Education  in 1971 and was quoted by  Dr Sidney  Sax in an article appearing in the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 2 August 1975. He wrote: 
. much of medicine does not consist of such straightforward problems. It largely consists of . . . helping people to live more comfortably with problems that will go away spontaneously . . .; to live with equanimity and to function as well as possible with problems that will not go away . . .; to prevent illness (which increasingly requires complex alterations in personal ways of living and changes in such social problems as poor housing, lack of jobs, and poor education); and only finally to treat specific breakdowns in the human machine. 
It can be seen that we need a change in the community's attitude towards medicine and we need a change in the attitude and approach of the profession. I believe that this will come about only by self-examination within the profession, by education of the community and by a careful examination of the methods that we use in training our doctors. This will require the close cooperation of health authorities, of the profession and of the community. The profession has to come from behind the mystical veil that either it has drawn up or that has grown between the profession and the community. Otherwise, as has happened in the past in other fields, the people will tear down that veil and will force the profession out. Unfortunate results may come from that. 
My point is that financial sanctions against patients, as seem to be implied by  Mr Hunt,  and as seen to be the attitude of this Government in other fields, will not work. Worse still, such a blunderbuss approach will affect innocent people. A broad general financial approach to cutting down the number of tests and investigations that are undertaken invariably will involve innocent people. It will cause resentment and great dissatisfaction in the community- dissatisfaction with the profession to which I am proud to belong.  Senator McLaren  was correct in saying that Medibank has helped many good doctors and many patients by removing the worry from the patient and the doctor of the cost of investigations when the doctor is considering what treatment and approach he should use. Sure, some not so good doctors have abused the Medibank system; they abused the previous system also. Most doctors who abuse the system do so because of the way that they are taught. 
If sanctions are to be used we should find whatever means we can of controlling the people who are abusing the system directly rather than controlling the patient. On the point of accreditation I refer to the United States of America, the land of free enterprise, the land of the free where, we are told, individual freedom is precious above all things. In the United States surgical and medical audits are carried out in the hospitals. Accreditations are much more common in that country than they are in Australia. The results of such surgical audits, particularly in some States and cities and hospitals, are used to decide whether a particular person will remain on the staff of a particular hospital. How many times has that happened in this country? How many times has an honorary medical officer of a hospital who has held that position for 50, 40, 20 or even 2 years, lost his job because of the results of some careful and properly assessed audit of his work? We do not hear much about complaints in the United States against these accreditation schemes in terms of abrogation of the freedom of the individual. I accept, as does everyone who thinks about this matter accepts, that we must be conscious of the economic cost of health care and must stop abuse. But I repeat that if that abuse does not lie with the patient, as it does not in the vast majority of cases- abuse by excessive diagnostic tests and by over-prescribing- those who are responsible for the abuse ought to bc investigated or penalised. Better still, I believe, let us change the situation by education and by letting the patients into our confidence. I believe we then may have a situation of mutual trust that we do not have now. We have a situation of suspicion between the community and the medical profession and in many cases we have a situation of outright hostility. But if we can create a situation of mutual trust we may succeed in breaking down abuses and in obtaining a more rational approach to medicine. Then we shall succeed in getting a proper health service in this country and we will stop the arguments that have been carried on over the years about funding and about individual freedom. Maybe then the medical profession will stop having an automatic Pavlovian reaction every time anybody suggests that there is a need for reform. Perhaps then the medical profession will realise that suggestions for reform made by people outside the medical profession are not always stupid and not always put forward by communists, socialists, intellectual economists or any of the other pejorative words that are used to describe anyone who criticises the profession. Then we will have a reasonable system, one based on mutual trust between the profession and the community. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to propose a motion. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I welcome the report and seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns the effect that the present staff restrictions are having on the efficiency of her Department. Have regional officers of her Department expressed concern at the effect of the restrictions on the efficiency of the various officers? Is the ability of her Department to investigate and supervise social security matters being adversely affected? Are some regional offices having difficulty in getting pensions and other benefits to beneficiaries on time? Will the Minister inquire into the effects of these staff restrictions and report to the Senate on any action which she may consider necessary? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the statements made by the Prime Minister in his speech to the Victorian Council of the Liberal Party at the weekend when he said 'Some of Labor's social welfare schemes will have to be cut because we cannot afford them' and 'cuts will be tough for the Government but not for the people'. When will a comprehensive statement be made on the Government's social welfare plans, particularly for those areas in which it is intended to cut expenditure? Such a statement needs to be made in order to relieve the uncertainty of organisations and individuals working in the welfare field. Can the Minister clarify for the Senate the view expressed by the Prime Minister that financial cuts can be tough for the Government but not for the people involved? 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to the recent statement by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations that people who become voluntarily unemployed will not be eligible for unemployment benefits until a period of 6 weeks has elapsed. I ask the Minister, whose Department is also concerned with these payments: Will this period of 6 weeks date from the time a person is voluntarily unemployed or from the time he registers with the employment service? If the former applies, does this in fact not represent a liberalisation of the present rules? If the latter applies, will this not cause considerable hardship to the unemployed person who has attempted to seek employment without the aid of the employment service? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether it is a fact that until February this year 70 per cent of citizens who were refused the unemployment benefit, for reasons of failing the work test, were successful in having the decision reversed on appeal. What is the reason for this high success rate on appeal? Does the Government anticipate that its new guidelines for the unemployment benefit will result in fewer successful appeals? 
-The Opposition opposes clause 11 which is consequential on clause 7, which we have already defeated. 
Question put: 
That the clause stand as printed. 
-The Opposition does not oppose clauses 1 to 6. We just wish to clarify a couple of points. The first comment I should like to make is that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  pointed out to us the importance of this Bill passing through this chamber expeditiously so that these payments can be made quickly. The Opposition is aware of this factor. In the opening part of my speech in the second reading debate I said that we did not oppose the Bill in toto, that we oppose only sections of it and that we did not wish to delay the passage of the Bill unduly. I commenced my speech on the second reading of the Bill at 4.32 p.m. today and it has been debated for about  2Vi  hours. This Bill was introduced into the Senate on 7 April this year and there was opportunity for it to be debated before the recent Easter recess. I think we have dealt with this Bill expeditiously. We have not wanted to delay its passage. 
Clauses 1 to 6 provide increases in general. They provide increases in the pension rate and other allowances to age pensioners. The Opposition's reason for criticising this part of the Bill arises from the delay that has occurred.  Senator Guilfoyle  and other honourable senators opposite repeatedly have pointed out that this increase is introduced 6 months after the last increase introduced by the Labor Party. I should like to point out to  Senator Guilfoyle  that even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  does not know what he said at Rockhampton. We have no accurate record of what he said at Rockhampton. We have absolutely accurate records of what  Mr Chipp  said and what he has said since.  His  remarks were made with the full approval of the Liberal and Country Parties. He said that legislation would be introduced into the Parliament to provide for automatic and instant increases in the pensions when the consumer price index figures came out. He made great play of the point that once this had happened there would be no need for pension increases to come before the Parliament in the form of legislation. He said that this would be a great thing because pensions would no longer be a political football. 
He said it would be twice a year but it would be automatic. I put it to honourable senators opposite, as  Mr Chipp  put it in the House of Representatives the other night, that this Bill does not do that. In fact, if honourable senators read the  Hansard  record they will find that  Mr Chipp  said that if legislation of this type is not introduced before the next increase is due he will introduce it himself. 
We are not objecting to the fact that it is introduced twice a year. When in government, we introduced increases twice a year. We accept twice a year as reasonable for the introduction of these sorts of Bills; the 6- monthly interval is reasonable. What we are pointing out is that  Mr Chipp,  as the Government's spokesman, said that legislation would be introduced to make these increases automatic and to make this sort of debate unnecessary. I am no constitutional expert. I have some doubts as to whether that can be done. It may be able to be done or it may not be able to be done; but that was the promise made by  Mr Chipp.  We have heard nothing about it since. That is our only criticism of these clauses of the Bill. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Repeal). 
-The Opposition wishes to oppose clause 7 of the Bill. Briefly, clause 7 repeals Part IVa of the principal Act; in other words, it abolishes the funeral benefit. I understand from newspaper articles today that some doubt has been expressed as to whether the Senate has the power to oppose this clause. I realise,  Mr Chairman,  that this will be a matter for you. We have taken advice from those who are considered to be experts on this matter and we are assured that in fact we are able to take such a move in relation to the Bill. I get back to the point which  Senator Guilfoyle  made. We do not want to delay the Bill. We do not believe that our move, if supported, will unduly delay the Bill. It will merely have the effect of removing clause 7 and, if that move is successful, clause 11 also will have to be removed. The Bill could go back to the House of Representatives where, because of the numbers in the House of Representatives, it could be decided quickly. It could come back here and still be decided by tomorrow afternoon, which would be in time for royal assent. 

 Mr Chairman, should you rule that this course of action cannot be taken, I am certainly prepared to move that the Bill, with clauses 7 and 1 1, be referred back to the House of Representatives with the request that they be deleted. I shall not canvass all the arguments I and other honourable senators on this side have used as to why we oppose the abolition of the funeral benefit. Basically, we oppose it because we believe that before the last election the Government promised that it would not do this sort of thing. It said that it would not reduce the value of benefits available to people. We oppose this repeal because of the emotional effect it will have on people and we oppose it because of the real practical effect. It removes the benefit from people at a time when they feel they need it. These are difficult economic times when people are in great distress. We express our intention of opposing this clause. 
-I had no intention to rise to speak again on clause 7 of the Social Services Amendment Bill but I am provoked to do so by the remarks of the Minister for Social Security. I think it is absolutely abysmal that such a tactic which can be described only as 'blackmail' should be adopted in this chamber. This Bill was introduced into this chamber on 7 April. There has been ample opportunity to debate the Bill before today. When the Bill was introduced today the debate was extended on this side of the chamber for only some  Vh  hours. If clauses 7 and 1 1 are rejected by this chamber there is ample time for this Bill to go back to the House of Representatives, to come back here and to go for the royal assent. It is ludicrous for the Minister to attempt blackmail and to say to the members of this chamber that they should not vote against this Bill because if they do the Government will not pay the pensioners their increases. 
I point out to  Senator Sim  and his colleagues who are attempting to interject and who claim that they have the freedom to vote as they like in this place while Opposition senators do not that there is a very great difference between the way in which the Parties of the honourable senators opposite would have considered this Bill and the way in which we would have considered it. If we were in government this Bill would have gone to the Caucus and the Caucus never would have passed this nonsensical legislation. Honourable senators opposite, including those who have expressed their intention to vote against this Bill, had no opportunity to vote on this Bill in their Party room. Therefore, they should have the right to vote as they like in this place. 

 - Senator Sim, the Leader of the war lobby, who is interested only in increasing funds to kill people - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order, senator! I should like you to rephrase that. 
It is typical that  Senator Sim  would be one of those who would not oppose clauses 7 and 1 1. But really I rose to express my concern that such a threat should have been made by the Minister to prevent the pensioners of this country from getting the rise that we agree they deserve. We stated at the beginning of this debate that we did not intend to oppose the Bill in toto- only the abolition of the funeral benefits. We regret that the Minister has had to resort to this sort of tactic. 
I assume that the Government would wish to debate cognately with this Bill the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1976? 
I think the Minister has indicated to me that that will be so. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills in toto. Neither does it wish to delay unduly the passage of these Bills as they contain provisions for some much needed and much delayed increases in benefits for pensioners and repatriation benefit recipients in this country. However, the Opposition does intend to oppose in the Committee stages that clause of the Social Services Amendment Bill, clause 7, which deprives those who meet the costs of a funeral of a pensioner the Government contribution to those costs. On behalf of my colleagues, I move the following amendment to the second reading motion: 
At end of motion add-  but the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to index dependants allowances to meet increases in the cost of living'. 
I have moved that amendment,  Senator Wood,  to the second reading motion. There are 2 amendments, one to oppose that clause in the Committee stages. The amendments deal with different aspects. 
The Social Services Amendment Bill provides for increases in the single rate pension from $38.75 a week to $41.25 a week, and an increase in the married rate pension from $33.25 a week to $34.25 a week, these increases being roughly 6.4 per cent, in line with the consumer price index figures for the last 2 quarters of 1975. It provides also for similar increases in unemployment and sickness benefits. The Bill provides also for an increase in the allowances for pensioner inmates and widow inmates of benevolent homes. It increases the penalty for fraudulent claims on the Department of Social Security from $100 to $500. Finally, and most deplorably in our mind, the legislation abolishes the funeral benefit available to those responsible for the funeral costs of a deceased pensioner. 
This Bill has come in for widespread criticism in the community. It has come in for criticism from both sides of politics, including a State conference of one of the Government parties. It has been criticised particularly by many pensioner organisations in the community. I believe that the basis for this widespread and vocal criticism is very easy to find. Both Bills, particularly the Social Services Amendment Bill, repudiate the promises made to pensioners and to pensioner organisations in the course of the election campaign of November-December last that the value of social welfare benefits in this country would not be reduced if a Liberal-National Country Party government was elected. Secondly, neither Bill fulfils the promised policies of the Liberal and National Country Parties that there would be an instant and automatic adjustment of pensions and benefits in line with movements in the consumer price index if a coalition government was elected. 
I point out firstly that the initial legislative action of this Government was to abolish subsidised pharmaceutical benefits. This action had the effect of increasing the cost of prescription charges to many people who received those benefits, including new migrants in this country, from 75c to $2. We have had restrictions on the availability of legal aid so that a deserted wife cannot obtain legal aid when she seeks maintenance payments. We have had foreshadowed, although nothing seems very clear about this matter, the possibility of withholding social security benefits from wives who are in this situation. Severe restrictions are being applied to the unemployment benefit. The ethnic interpreter service is being cut back. A whole series of cutbacks has been made and obviously will continue to be made. These Bills are just part of the whole attack, we believe, on the social welfare system of this country. 
Let me quote first some of those statements which have been made in the past 6 months, particularly some of those things which were said last November and December. In November 1975  Mr Chipp  was caretaker Minister for Social Security. Let me repeat what he said. This was quoted in many newspapers. In fact, he issued a Press statement making the same undertaking. He said: 
Pensioners would get automatic twice-yearly increases in line with the cost of living rises. 
Pensions would be out of the hands of politicians and no longer would be a political football. 
They would be automatic. Legislation will not even have to come to Parliament. 
In his Press statement dated 8 December 1975 he said: 
Legislation would be introduced to allow instant increases in pensions in line with the consumer price index. 
At a meeting at Rockhampton on 6 December 1975 widely reported, particularly in the  Sun Herald  and the  Melbourne Sun  of 7 December and 8 December respectively,  Mr Fraser  said: 
A Liberal-CP Government would give automatic twiceyearly increases in pensions, and would raise pensions directly in line with price rises. 

 Mr Fraser said there would be no need to wait 3 months as with Labor's proposed adjustment for price index rises. 
I ask honourable senators to take note of the repeated use of the terms 'instant' and 'automatic' by those 2 gentlemen and to note  Mr Fraser  's reference that there would not be any need to wait until 3 months after the CPI figures were out for the pensioners to get their increases. Quite clearly the implication of their words was that pensioners could expect instant rises when the CPI figures were released. Quite clearly pensioners could expect pensions to rise automatically after the legislation which had been promised was introduced. The consumer price index rose 6.4 per cent in the second half or the last 2 quarters of 1975. Workers on awards received their indexed increases in February and March. Pensioners will receive their increases in May. 
To put a vice-regal seal on the whole issue,  Mr Fraser  put into the mouth of the GovernorGeneral in his Speech when opening this Parliament the following words: 
The Government will not permit economic recovery to take place at the expense of those who are less well off. 
The Government proposes to introduce to the Parliament amending legislation to increase social service pensions and benefit rates every 6 months in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. Similar legislation will be introduced to increase repatriation compensation payments. 
The Governor-General said that amending legislation would be introduced to increase pensions and benefits every 6 months in accordance with movements of the CPI. He did not say that legislation would be introduced every 6 months to increase pensions but that amending legislation would be introduced to have the effect of increasing the pensions every 6 months.  Mr Chipp  's promise was that legislation would not even have to come to the Parliament. Since the GovernorGeneral's Speech, to my knowledge, neither the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  nor the Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  has mentioned this proposed legislation. Certainly  Mr Chipp  and other Government supporters in the House of Representatives have. They have expressed their disappointment at the turn of events and made their disappointment quite clear. So have the pensioner organisations. 
I think we may well ask: Where is this promised legislation? I do not think it is any wonder that pensioners and their representatives are annoyed and disillusioned. I do not think it is any wonder that newspaper editorials are critical. Pensioners had had 3 years of Labor government which had increased pensions by 93.8 per cent when the average weekly earnings in this country had increased by 64 per cent. They had seen the pension rise from 19 per cent of the average weekly earnings to 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. They had seen children's allowances rise from $4.50 to $7.50 per week, in excess of the cost of living increase. Other benefits had been introduced to make a start on bridging gaps in our social welfare program. A start had also been made on the elimination of the means test. The Labor Government knew perfectly well, and the Labor Opposition knows well now, that the system needed reform. Numerous reports were coming into the Labor Government, and they are still coming in, suggesting the nature of possible reforms, but the Labor Government knew that the first priority in 2 short terms of government was to increase the income level of beneficiaries to something near a reasonable sum compared with parameters such as the average weekly earnings and the consumer price index figures. 
Then pensioners were presented with a policy by the coalition parties under which they would get instant application of the consumer price index to their pensions; that they would get automatic application without the need for parliamentary debate. They had firm and repeated promises that there would be no reduction in the value of welfare benefits. I point out that nowhere in pre-election policy speeches was there a word about funeral benefits or in fact about subsidised pharmaceutical benefits. Pensioner organisations admitted that it was almost too much to believe. I believe that they are realising now that, as it turns out, it was too much to believe. They were told earlier this year that pensions were to be increased, not instantly, not automatically, but in May. It was said, and it is still being said, that to pay the pension increase in May was not depriving the pensioners of one month's pension increase and thus decreasing the value of their benefits but that the payment was in line with Labor policy. This statement, which was repeated in the House of Representatives, which I dare say will be repeated today, and which certainly is still being repeated in public by supporters of the Government, I believe was given the lie by the Prime Minister himself. On 4 February he released a list of cuts in government spending totalling some $350m. On page 4 of that list was a cut of $29m in government spending, and this cut is attributed to a delay in the pension payments of one month. It is a cut of $29m in the Labor Budget's proposed spending. 1 will be interested to hear honourable senators opposite explain to me how the Government can save $29m expenditure by depriving the pensioners of $29m in benefits and not at the same time cutting the value of pensions. So much for the instant increases and so much for the promise that pensioners would not bear the brunt of the Government's plans for recoveryjust a cut of $29m. 
Pensioner organisations also expected, quite reasonably, that the indexing of pensions and benefits referred to in the Governor-General's Speech and other speeches would also apply to dependants' allowances. Children of pensioners and beneficiaries must be fed, must be clothed, must travel by private and public transport, and must be educated. All these things are affected by the CPI increases. The Labor Government did not increase these payments 6-monthly. It substantially raised pensions following increases in the consumer price index. Prior to the election the coalition parties promised to tie benefits such as the dependants allowances to the CPI. If honourable senators opposite like to indulge in semantics and say that the promises referred to the word ' benefits' and did not mean allowances, I point out that the section of the original Act referring to allowances paid to spouses and other dependants of pensioners who die refers to funeral benefits. These benefits are not indexed; they are abolished. In view of the record of the previous coalition Government between 1949 and 1972 with pensions and allowances we believe that the Government should be asked by this House to index all associated benefits so that in the future pensioners can have some guarantee as they were promised before the election. We believe that only by insisting on an amendment to index these benefits can we guarantee that the Government will do justice to the pensioners in view of the already abysmal record of this Government and the abysmal record of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in the social welfare field. 
Clause 7 of the Bill abolishes the funeral benefit. This benefit provides payments of $20 to $40 towards the cost of funerals of deceased pensioners. It was introduced in the early 1940s. Everyone in this place admits that it was inadequate and needed reform by increasing the amount and perhaps by slightly varying the amounts available in different circumstances to different people who are responsible for the funerals of pensioners who die, thus making them more equitable and more reasonable. This was the situation with repatriation beneficiaries, whose funeral benefit is considerably higher, although probably not sufficiently high by today's standards. Funeral expenses are high and are a burden for many families, perhaps most families. After the purchase of a house and a car, a funeral probably represents the next most expensive item to be paid for by any family. But the Government intends without warning to abolish the funeral benefit to save the derisory expenditure of $ 1.7m. I point out that this is a further $1.7m cut in welfare spending. Despite all the previous promises it is being done at a time of worry and concern for all pensioners, in fact for most of us- a time of world wide economic difficulties. It is done to save an absolutely infinitesimal proportion of the projected Budget deficit. 
What statements were made by the Government in justification of this move? The Minister for Social Security said that the Government had decided to continue the payment of the combined married rate of pension to the surviving partner in a case where a married pensioner died. One wonders whether these words indicated that the Government was considering abolishing this benefit too. If the Government was not considering removing this benefit, what relevance has that statement to the funeral benefit? I believe that the Government and the Minister were grasping at straws. The combined rate payment for 12 weeks to the surviving spouse was introduced in 1968. It was introduced to tide over the spouse for the period when a sudden and almost always unexpected drop in income would have caused distress to that surviving spouse. I point out that it was not introduced to pay for funerals. The funeral benefit was in existence then and was not abolished at the same time as the combined rate payment was introduced. The combined rate payment was not introduced to provide funeral benefits. In depriving the surviving spouse of even the miserly $40 funeral benefit payment the Government, in fact, is cutting almost 2 weeks payment off that 12 weeks combined benefits payment. So much for the Government's maintaining the value of pensions. 
A second attempt to justify this abolition of the benefit was made in a further statement by the Minister for Social Security when she said: 
Some 25 per cent of aged pensioners are single and own their own houses. On the death of such pensioners their estates would generally cover funeral costs. 
What sort of a statement of justification is that? Apparently, 25 per cent will be OK; so the other 75 per cent can be disregarded. That statement seems hardly to provide justification for the attitude that this expenditure should be cut. Another Government attitude- I believe a more accurate one- was demonstrated by  Mr Newman,  the Minister for Repatriation, when he spoke to clause 7 of the Bill in another place.  His  remarks are recorded on page 1360 of House of Representatives  Hansard  of 6 April 1976. He said:   the whole Bill, including this particular clause is clearing the way for something better. 
I submit to the Senate that this case is the same as the subsidised pharmaceutical benefits case. In this case, we have the funeral benefit. There is a need for this benefit. I do not think many here would deny that. But the benefit was inefficient in the case of subsidised pharmaceutical benefits. In this case it is inadequate. Is the answer really to throw out this benefit and say, as  Mr Newman  said later, that sometime in the future- perhaps in four or five months when the Budget is introduced, perhaps in four or five years, or perhaps never- the Government will produce something better. Surely the time to throw out a benefit is when something better is introduced or when reforms are introduced. Are we to ask surviving spouses between now and Budget time or between now and Budget time next year, or whenever it will be, to feel proud that the Government has singled them out to take a special place in the battle against inflation and in cutting Government spending? The delayed pensioner benefit increase, on  Mr Fraser  's own admission, saved the Government $29m. I believe that if the pensioner organisations could have taken seriously his statement that we would have instant and automatic increases in pension benefits, perhaps justifiably it could be argued that the delay has been 3 months and that the saving has been something like $87m. However, we will take  Mr Fraser  's word on this matter and say that this cut saved $29m. The removal of the funeral benefit saved $1.7m. But the sum saved has not really cut Government spending because increased Government spending on other items for other special groups in the community has increased far beyond this amount. Perhaps I should not be unkind enough to mention where some of that increased Government spending will take place and say who will be benefiting from it. 
I believe that the factors that apply to the delay in age pension payments apply also to the repatriation pensioners who also were promised instant and automatic pension increases. There has been a further decrease in the special benefit rate and the total and permanent incapacity pension because in the last Budget, which members of the present Government eventually voted for when they were in Opposition, pensioners receiving these pensions were promised an increase other than the one they are receiving now. In fact, if that pension increase had been passed and the Government had honoured the previous Labor Government's promise, those pensioners would now be some $2.50 a week better off. They fully expected these increases. The Totally and Permanently Incapacitated Pensioners Association expected this increase. These pensioners, like so many other people in this country, are not very happy with this action. 
This country chose the repatriation system a long time ago as its means of repaying in part those who defended this country in war and who went away to protect our freedom. The promise of instant and automatic pensions increases gave these people some hope. We believe that this policy should apply to all repatriation pensioners and also to their dependants. The Returned Services League, members of the present Government and ex-servicemen generally recognise the improvements made to the repatriation system by the previous Government. Other speakers from the Opposition who will follow me in this debate will amplify this matter. For the same reasons as we are moving an amendment to the motion that this Bill be read a second time, we will move an amendment to the motion that the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill be read a second time. It is to try to ensure that in the future the Senate makes sure that the Government follows up the promises it made before the last election. 
We recognised in government the inadequacy of the pension rates at that time. We recognised also the effects of inflation on those pension rates. This is why we increased the pension rates at a higher rate than the inflation rate. We recognised that the same need applied in the case of dependants' allowances, so we increased dependants' allowances at a greater rate than the inflation rate. We also recognised, as I am sure everyone recognises, that the whole system was faulty. We made a start at reforming the system. We did not get very far. We did not have very long to do so and most of the information was not in. It is still coming in. We did not remove benefits that were present with the promise that in the future we would do something better. As I said before, the time to remove these benefits is when the reform is being introduced and when the changes are to be made. It should not be necessary. It should not be necessary to leave a hiatus of need in the social welfare system while some new scheme is being investigated or while some new scheme is being brought up. 
It seems ironical and rather cruel to us to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  preaching from on high like some sort of latter day prophet and urging the citizens of this country to spend. He has announced the need for a consumer led recovery of the economy in this country. We have heard him plead with the people to buy new refrigerators, new motor cars and new washing machines so that there will be more jobs. But at the same time he has reduced the spending capacity of the pensioners in this country, on his own admission, by some $3 1 m. I believe that it is sad to hear the Prime Minister proclaim that his Government will give people more independence in the use of their money and more freedom to spend their money as they wish and then deprive those in the community who, through no fault of their own, have the least financial independence. These are the people whose meagre funds are committed largely to essential spending. They do not know what luxuries are. He has deprived these people of some $3 1 m of their spending power. Surely, even in the difficult economic times that we face, this country can afford to care for those people who, as I have said, through no fault of their own, need assistance. We believe that these people need confidence as much as business needs confidence. We do not believe that they should feel again that the chill winds of conservative philosophy will blow through our social security field. We think they should have confidence that the payments under the social security system will stay at the level reached during the period of the Labor Government and that social security will not revert to the low priority it had during the years of office of the previous conservative Government. These people expected that the promises made to them would be kept. 
Finally, I should like to quote from a letter which was written to a small newspaper, the  Launceston Examiner,  by  Mr L.  B. Clark of Low Head on 27 March 1976.  Mr Clark  has since written again and again asking his local government members to reply to his letters. 
-Senator Rae finds this issue very amusing. He always finds it very funny when things like this happen to pensioners. During the recent general election campaign  Mr Clark  reprimanded me very strongly because I suggested that pension values would drop under a Liberal government.  Mr Clark  referred to members of the present Government and to their promises before the election in his letter to the  Launceston Examiner.  His letter then stated, in part: 
As secretary of the George Town Branch of the Liberal Party during this campaign I was personally assured by both - 
Both the people he referred to earlier in his letter-  that pensions would be maintained at least at the level of purchasing power of December, and probably would be improved. 
He then went on to castigate the Whitlam Government. To be fair I shall read that also. He stated: 
The Whitlam Government may have been incompetent and ruinous to our economy and its socialistic policies deplorable, but at least it was not bloodsuckers of the poor. 

 Mr Clark finished his letter by stating: 
To the pensioners I can only extend my deepest apologies for any part I played in deceiving them during the  election  campaign. I am indeed sorry. 
I believe that  Mr Clark  has summed up the reasons for our moving the amendment which we have moved and for our proposing to oppose clause 7 of the Social Services Amendment Bill during the Committee stage. This clause provides for the abolition of the funeral benefit. I believe that I should let  Mr Clark  have the last word. 
-The Opposition, ever responsible, does not oppose this Bill. For the reasons given in the cognate debate last night I wish to move an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. I move: 
At the end of the motion add: 'but the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to index dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living'. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: When does the Government intend to introduce legislation to provide for instant and automatic increases in pensions in accordance with movements in the consumer price index and thus take pensions out of the area of political debate as promised by the previous Liberal Party spokesman on social security,  Mr 
Chipp, in the November-December election campaign? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security why the administration of some 59 projects for children's services totalling, I believe, about $1.2m, was removed from the Victorian office of the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission which had the expertise and the confidence of groups in Victoria to deal with such projects. Why was the administration removed to the State Health Department which I believe has limited administrative structures and no experience in these services? Is it expected that the Health Department will be able to complete processing the applications and allocate the funds by the end of this financial year? If no such assurances can be given, will the Minister consider returning the administration of these projects to the Children's Commission so that the money can be spent in the way in which it was intended? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Is it a fact that the Family Law Court is now the only statutory authority dealing with maintenance proceedings insofar as persons who have been married are concerned and that it is the duty of the officers of the Court to take proceedings for the enforcement of maintenance orders when necessary? Is it a fact that wives in such circumstances need not incur any expenses when seeking enforcement of maintenance orders? Will the new regulations gazetted by the AttorneyGeneral this week affect this situation? Will they reduce the delays at present so obvious in seeking enforcement of maintenance orders? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true that officers of the Minister's department have been making raids  en masse  on recipients of unemployment benefits in the Kensington and Flemington areas of Melbourne? Are these officers acting on specific information or is this just a dragnet exercise to see what can be turned up? Is it intended that this tactic, which to some of us smacks of secret police raids, will be used again in the future and, if so, why? 
I have a brief question to ask the Minister. I notice that the only difference between this Bill and that introduced last year is in clause 6 which provides for the method of paying or funding members of the interim council. Could the Minister tell the Committee why there is this difference? 
I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Omega is the only worldwide navigation system, whose continuous Very Low Frequency signals can be used by submarines to determine their position, while remaining completely submerged. 
That in particular the missile-firing submarines of the U.S.A. can improve their destructive potential by using Omega signals. 
That it represents a major escalation of the arms race, and directly involves Australia even further in nuclear war strategies. 
That therefore an Omega station built in Australia would be a prime nuclear target. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Australian Government will reconsider its decision and reject any proposal to build an Omega station on Australian soil. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I preface my question by saying that I am sure the Minister will recall that the state of social science research in Australia was referred to in highly unfavourable terms in the 1974 report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and that the 1975 Liberal Party policy stated that the Australian Science and Technology Council should include social scientists. I ask: Why has the social science component of the Australian Science and Technology Council been withdrawn and the social scientists on the Council sacked? How will it be possible for the Council to assess the social implications of changing scientific technology without a contribution from social scientists? 
-The Maritime College Bill 1976 will not be opposed by the Opposition this evening, as this Bill is essentially the same as the Bill which was presented to the Parliament in October 1975 but which did not pass both Houses of the Parliament because of the events of 1 1 November. I do not intend to indulge in the orgy of political rhetoric that was evident in the debate in the House of Representatives in 1975. I think the circumstances of the day probably had a lot to do with that debate. I merely say that there could be very few institutions like the proposed maritime college in the founding of which so many people claim a part. In the debate in 1975 speeches made as far back as 1955 and 1965 were referred to, the speakers claiming that they had been the originators of this College. Dates were carefully cited to show who had first called for the College. Speeches were made, copied in great numbers and distributed in various parts of Australia, each proclaiming the important part that that  speaker  had had in the conception of the College. 
A very big foundation stone,  Senator Harradine.  I think it is reasonable to say that the decision to build the College and to site it in or near Launceston which some honourable senators may know is in northern Tasmania was contributed to by those who did a lot of leg work and who did not seek and therefore did not receive a lot of publicity. There were people on both sides of the Parliament who did that. They had as much to do with the siting and the building of the College as some of the people who received a lot of publicity about it. I believe there can be very few reports which have been presented to the Senate, certainly in the time that I have been here, which have been written in as simple and as clear a manner as the report by the Commission of Inquiry Into the Maritime Industry into the training requirements of seagoing personnel. The Commissioner was  Mr Summers. Mr Summers  carried out his inquiry in a very businesslike and forthright manner. He correlated the facts and produced his conclusions with skill and clarity. I believe he should be commended and should be presented as an example to some of the other commissioners which this 
Parliament and other parliaments have appointed to produce reports. I accept the fact that the position of training in the maritime industry had clear deficiencies. I give  Mr Summers  great credit for producing his report and not muddying it with irrelevancies and diversions all over the place and with great discussions on philosophy. 
-He did not need very much help at all. In the last 10 years a lot of commissioners could have learnt a lot from  Mr Summers.  I believe that in the future this report may be used as an example of clarity because even  Senator Rae  and I can understand what Commissioner Summers said. He set out quite clearly the need for the Maritime College to train officers and other men who will man our ships in the future. The Minister should be impressed by the Commissioner's words. On the first page of his report, without beating around the bush, when referring to the need of training requirements for seagoing personnel he stated: 
This is a matter on which urgent action is needed. 
The present situation is obviously unsatisfactory to say the least. It is a hangover from the days of sail and of press gangs. It is quite clear that the training of deck officers and men in our maritime industry is a mixture of the acquisition of experience and of passing examinations for certificates of competency. These examinations are concerned mainly with safety matters. The examinations for the certificates, in the words of  Mr Summers  which are found on page 3 of the report, are:   not always up to date in their references to operational requirements on board. Nor do they thoroughly test an applicant's practical operation of modern equipment, such as radar, or of hyperbolic navigation systems such as Decca and Loran. 
He adds later that one of the difficulties is that the attendance at training courses is not compulsory. People seem to have been acquiring knowledge and passing unsatisfactory examinations. The result is not always satisfactory people for our ships. I think of further and probably of more serious concern is  Mr Summers'  view: 
Moreover, it is very doubtful that the present standard will continue to attract the type of men whose knowledge allows them to adjust without great effort to changes in types of shipping and cargo handling that are developing. 
Obviously from these conclusions the implications for the future of our maritime industry, which is very important, are serious. It is disturbing to find that there is no introductory training, even in safety measures, for the majority of Australian mariners. It is also disturbing that there is no effective training for the crews of fishing vessels. Not all the States require any form of proof of competency for fishing boats and crews. It seems obvious to me that in the 1970s with increasing change and an increase in the sophistication of the various vessels and equipment, in the need for competency and the efficient turn around of vessels- in other words, for the effective commercial operation of vessels, including the effective transfer of cargo- the present system which seems to be a mixture of informal and incomplete training is not adequate for this country which should have a maritime industry  par excellence  to compete in the world trade. 
It is equally important that if we are to produce an efficient fishing industry capable of competing around our own shores with the Japanese, the Russians, the Taiwanese and others who fish here, we must produce the men with the knowledge and skill to efficiently man those modern vessels. This is not to denigrate those fishermen we have now or those mariners we have in our merchant marine. But times are changing. Ships are becoming more sophisticated, as I said earlier. The importance of commercial and competitive operation is obvious to anyone who has taken a close look at the industry as has  Mr Summers.  I think the findings of  Mr Summers  make it perfectly clear that it is quite wrong and inappropriate for people to blame the deficiencies of our shipping industry on various unions and union activity. Sometimes the unions are at fault but the tendency is to blame all our troubles in this area on them. 
It is ludicrous for a country of Australia's geographical position to find it necessary to import 50 per cent or more of its officers. It is not only ludicrous but also a sign of the inefficiency and insufficiency of our training. We are a developed country. We are considered to be developed. Really, we should be able to have training facilities which can be used to help mariners from less developed countries. But as it happens at the moment, and as is obvious from this report, in the training of seamen we are an undeveloped country. Of course there is no substitute for experience at sea for our seafarers. But I suggest that experience is more valuable when built on a sound theoretical and practical base which can be provided by a co-ordinated course such as we hope will be available at the Maritime College proposed by this Bill.  Mr Summers  conclusion is summed up on paragraphs 75 and 76 of his report. He states: 
I believe strongly, however, that after so many years of Australia's fiddling with training for the maritime industry it is time for the Australian Government to take the stand that it wants a much better and much more effective system and provide funds for improving training and education. 
However, the cost of spreading the improvements around the States leads to the conclusion that it does not warrant more than one college. 
In reaching that conclusion, I recommend that the Australian Government should set up an 'Australian Maritime College'. The College should be set up as part of an existing College of Advanced Education. 
After such a clear recommendation backed by solid evidence, no government- either the present Government or the previous Governmentcould ignore it. I commend this Government for pursuing, by introducing this Bill, the last Government's initiative. I welcome the siting of the college in Launceston, not for parochial reasons but because this is the best place for it. 
-We may need to put something in Old Sydney Town, I gather. As everyone knows, the area chosen in Launceston is near the sea. It is in the vicinity of Bass Strait which is an area subject to changes in weather, climatic changes and tidal changes. It presents navigational problems suitable in training. I gather that my colleague,  Senator Rae,  who has some intimate experience of this from his sailing activities will be able to elaborate on this point. I believe the presence of the usually navigable River Tamar adds to the attraction of the area although I do not know that the pollution of the River Tamar will make it a very popular place, particularly in the upper reaches. 
I believe the site also fulfils  Mr Summers'  other criteria in being close to a centre of population, close to an active port and close to fishing industries. The college of advanced education is already established. I hope that, with the implementation of the Karmel report on postsecondary education in Tasmania, the site will become even more attractive and the acquisition of the maritime college will considerably upgrade the college of advanced education. I believe, that the proposed siting will also perform the function of establishing in Tasmania, especially at the college of advanced education, a national institution. We in Tasmania have at the moment no national institution, with the possible exception of  Senator Wright.  I hope that this institution will be a worthy one and will inevitably provide a base for the further development of the college of advanced education as an autonomous tertiary institution of which Australia and the northern part of Tasmania can be proud. I believe strongly that there is every reason why education, above all industries- if we can call it an industry- can be decentralised without great difficulty, certainly without much pollution, certainly without much of a transport problem being created and can, in some small way, help to remove the burden of population pressure from some of our bigger cities. It is obvious that some of the most prestigious educational institutions in the world are well away from the capital cities and away from the large areas of population. I hope this trend continues. I hope that the siting of this college in northern Tasmania and the application of the Karmel report on postsecondary education will do this in Tasmania. I hope it will be an example of what can be done to the rest of Australia in this field. 
There was some difficulty in putting forward a case for northern Tasmania as the site of this college. Indeed, it was quite an interesting experience to be involved in this exercise, however peripherally. It was quite an interesting experience and, I believe, an education. There seemed to be a fair amount of bipartisan support, politically, but some of us- certainly myself, who at the time had not been in politics very longreceived an education in Establishment politics. I was amused all through the publicity battle over the siting of this college by how rough- I believe that is the best term- some of the gentlemen of the various educational establishments in this country can play the game. I was amused at statements made by academics. They were dressed up and aimed, I believe, at empire building and power gaining. Their statements were dressed up as rational and objective judgments. Any statements made in opposition to their proposals, particularly by politicians, were condemned as political game playing. I certainly learnt, I believe, that the exponents of political street fighting and in-fighting are not confined to parties, business or trade unions but are alive and well among some of our supposedly other worldy and objective, distinguished, dispassionate academic circles. 
I support the legislation, but I should like to hear from the Minister either in his reply to the second reading of the debate or in the Committee stage, just when the planning committee and the interim council will be announced. I should like him to give me some idea of the time scale of their operations. It would seem to me that a fair amount of the basic work- certainly the basic outline of the plan- has been done by the commissioner, and that a start could be made in the not too distant future not only for the sake of Launceston but also for the sake of the safety, efficiency and welfare of the Australian maritime industry and especially for the sake of those who sail the sea. I believe that in Tasmania above all, but in Australia generally, we need safe, efficient ships manned by well trained seamen on all decks and in all departments of the ship. Certainly we in Tasmania have no desire for any more  Blythe Star, Straitsman  or  Lake Illawarra  disasters. We certainly do not want to see any more of our fishermen lost at sea than can be avoided. 
I consider that our standing as a seafaring nation and our efficiency as a world trader and as a food gatherer are at stake in this issue, and I urge the Government to proceed with this plan as soon as possible. I urge it to make sure that all hurdles are removed so that this college can be established and that we can have an institution in the Launceston area of which we are proud and can have a maritime training institution in this country which, as is obvious from the report of  Mr Summers,  has been long needed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the social welfare advisory groups of the Social Welfare Research Centre which I understand the Minister is to establish shortly, more or less to replace the functions of the Social Welfare Commission. When will we be able to know the structure of the various organisations? Will the reports by any of these groups be made public, as Social Welfare Commission reports are, so that all of us can assess the results of their work? 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I draw her attention to the social welfare policy statement issued by the Liberal and Country parties in October 1975 which indicated an acceptance and an endorsement of the Australian Assistance Plan. I also draw her attention to the Press statement on the same program issued by  Mr Chipp,  the caretaker Minister for Social Security and honourable member for Hotham. I refer to a speech made as recently as 5 May this year by the honourable member for Hotham, in which he said that the Government is 'morally, politically and I believe conscientiously bound to it'. He was referring to the Australian Assistance Plan. In view of these firm commitments to the AAP, can the Minister explain why the Government has decided to transfer the operation of this program, which after all did not cost a great deal of money, to the State governments? Will the Government give special financial assistance to the States to fund this program? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has a committee been set up by the Government to review the programs for the care of the aged? Do members of the committee include, among others,  Dr Sidney  Sax, and  Mr Austin  Holmes who was recently on the Medibank Review Committee? If so, what are the committee's terms of reference? Why has there been no public announcement on the formation of this committee? Who, if anyone, will be asked to make submissions to the committee during its investigations? Will the findings of the committee be reported to the Parliament? 
I would like briefly to comment on a couple of points made by  Senator Young  in his rather extraordinary speech on the statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The first point worth commenting on is surely the last one made by the honourable senator- his extraordinary statements on local government.  Senator Young  used the magnificent expression that local government, under Labor, had to come cap in hand to Canberra to get money for the various facilities which local government provides for the people in the community. If being able to attend Grants Commission meetings and putting one's case is going cap in hand to Canberra, his statement may be correct. 
I think  Senator Young  should well remember I am sure his memory is good enough- that before 1972 it was of no use local government coming to Canberra at all because the Government which he supported would not give any aid to local government. It never did and it never considered doing so. Now because  Senator Young's  party has decided to extend, in a rather irrational way in the view of this party, what the previous Government had done, he proclaims that this is the great new initiative of the present Federal Government. I believe that no one will be fooled by this, least of all the members of local government including the  President  of the Municipal Association of Tasmania who has made it perfectly clear that rates in Tasmania this year will have to go up 20 per cent plus despite the present Federal Government's grants. 
-I point out to  Senator Wright,  who is always interrupting, that that very man will be a Liberal candidate in the next State election. Another interesting point which the previous  speaker  made was the extraordinary statement that we are suddenly going to have non-taxable child endowment. I would be very interested to hear when child endowment in this country was ever taxable. This is an extraordinary statement and one which tries to make a bit more out of a reform which I happen to agree with. But he just oversteps the mark. 
This debate on the Treasurer's statement has been like similar debates- a wide-ranging affair. I suppose this wide-ranging debate befits the Treasurer's wide-ranging statement. I believe the statement demonstrates the Government's firm intention of opting out of all the previous Government's initiatives as much as possible. I believe this will be done without consideration of the effects on the community as a whole. To me the statement seems to express the desire of the Government to revert to the sort of conservative role which is not seen in any central government in any country which can be at all compared with ours. To me it reads like some papal encyclical in which the Government expects to make a futile attempt at turning Australia backwards by just making a statement and by putting down a dogma. 
-That may be so,  Senator Primmer.  We have heard a lot of speeches on this matter. I was interested in the speech made by  Senator Lajovic  last night. I was in the chamber when  Senator Lajovic  made his first speech to the House and although I did not agree with a lot of what he said I was very impressed by the thoughtful nature in which he made his speech and the ideas he put up. However, I was not impressed last night. I do not suppose he would expect me to be. 
I realise that in debates in this chamber we all carefully select facts and figures and we all carefully twist words and arguments to support our case. Some do this more than others. Some will not recognise that they do so. I believe that the selectivity of  Senator Lajovic's  comments and so-called facts last night is worth replying to. He made a great tirade against what he sees as the great socialist threat in this country. He used the oldest tactic which has been used in this Parliament to succeed in this aim. I refer to the old guilt by association attempt. He talked about unhappiness in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and about various unhappy people he seems to know in Yugoslavia. He went on to demonstrate the unhappiness of the Yugoslavs by the fact that large numbers of them go as emigrant workers to other countries in Europe.  Senator Lajovic  did not mention that large numbers of Italians go to other countries in Europe, and Italy is ruled by a conservative government like the one he supports. Large numbers of Spaniards-Spain is ruled by a conservative government like his own- and large numbers of Turks- Turkey is hardly a pro-communist country- also go to other countries in Europe. Where do they go to work, Senator? They go to work in West Germany which has a social democratic government. That country is governed by a party which is a fraternal party of the Australian Labor Party. It is a democratic socialist government.  Senator Lajovic  uses careful selectivity of facts. 
The people go for all sorts of reasons. They do not go there because Yugoslavia has a particular type of government. They do not go to West Germany because West Germany has a conservative government; it has not. 
-As the Italians do. It has nothing to do with the political situation in their country or with the party in power in their country. The honourable senator knows it. He was being highly selective, as he was in the rest of his speech. He brought up the great furphy about Sweden. He said that Sweden has the highest suicide rate in the world, a statement which he admitted was wrong. Sweden has one of the highest suicide rates in the world. 
The honourable senator corrected it to that. I accept that. Like many countries, Sweden has a higher suicide rate than others. Is the honourable senator attributing that suicide rate to the fact that Sweden has a socialist government? Is he saying that Norway, which has a suicide rate which is less than half of Sweden's and which also has a socialist government, is connected? Is he expecting the Swedes, who have the lowest infant mortality rate in the world and who have the best care for the aged in the world, to exchange those privileges for what we have in this country? He was using an old furphy which no one swallows any more. 
-Senator Withers' comment interests me. He is another person who does not like Sweden. Everyone in the Government does not seem to like Sweden, but the frequency with which they buy Volvos and Saabs and drive around the country in products of Swedish enterprise always amuses me. 
I think the worst part of  Senator Lajovic  's speech was his effort on ethnic radio. He said that what ethnic radio should do- I agree with him- is that it should provide companionship for migrants who are lonely. It should provide education for migrants who want education. It should provide information for them. It should provide cultural interests, music from their home country and plays from their home country. He proceeded to insult the intelligence of his new Australian colleagues by saying that we must not have anything political on ethnic radio. That would be a terrible thing. We should help these people to assimilate. We should help them to retain their interest in their home country. Why on earth should we exclude politics from their own radio stations? It is an insult to their intelligence. I am very surprised that anyone in the Government, especially  Senator Lajovic,  would put up such a proposition. I believe his attitude is typical of the attitude of the Government generally. 
It seems to me that we now have a government with an attitude of extreme conservatism which looks at proposals for change and reform, not on the basis of their merits, not on the basis of what they will do for people in this country, but on the basis of who put up the proposals. If it is a Labor proposal it is bad. If it is a conservative proposal it is good. Nothing in this community could be more divisive than what  Senator Lajovic  suggested last night. 
I will give him an example because I think his interjection is pertinent to this point. Last Thursday night in the House of Representatives a Bill was introduced into this Parliament. It sought to introduce a levy for Medibank. It was the same in all respects as the Bill which was introduced into this Parliament by a Labor government in 1974 and 1975. That Bill was opposed and knocked out by the conservative Opposition. The Bill was described as one which would put Australia on the rocky road to socialism. It was also described as dictatorial. It was one of the Bills which was the basis of the double dissolution of 1 1 November. It was one of the 2 1 Bills referred to in that glorious pamphlet that the Liberal Party produced on how it would rule Australia. I hope all honourable senators opposite cross the floor when the present Bill is voted upon. All the speeches on the previous occasion were very interesting. Now honourable senators opposite have done a complete turnaround on what they said to the people of Australia before 13 December. 
The measures outlined in the statement contain one worthwhile reform. I agree with that reform. I refer to the new child endowment proposals. These were the proposals recommended by Professor Henderson in the poverty report, but it should not be forgotten that he recommended these changes as an interim measure, to tide people over until a guaranteed minimum income scheme is introduced. Although they distribute money to the people, as I think  Senator Martin  said yesterday, and give benefits to some of the poor families, especially the larger poor families, they also distribute money to some of the wealthy families and some of the rich larger families. They are not the redistributive schemes that will bring everyone up to the same sort of reasonable level. They have this double-barreled effect. In many cases they take money away from the people in the middle. 
Many of the gains that people will receive from the introduction of this child endowment scheme and from the introduction of tax indexation will be lost. I noticed on my desk today, with the compliments of  Senator Cotton,  a set of tables which show the effect on taxpayers of the new proposals for child endowment and tax indexation. Added to them are the new proposals for the Medibank levy. The introduction of the Medibank levy or the forcing of people into private insurance has, in many cases, cancelled the good effects of the child endowment proposals and the good effects of tax indexation which was praised so much a moment ago by  Senator Young.  People on the average income and thereabouts and even the poor people who receive some cash benefits from the new child endowment scheme and, in some cases, from tax indexation will be further affected. They will have their gains further eroded by some of the cuts which have been announced by the Government. 
One of the cuts which will affect these people is the cut in the child care programs. The needs of the impoverished people, especially the single parent units, are needs not only for cash but also for services- needs for all sorts of child care services. The fact that a lot of these child care services and child care programs will not go ahead will eat into the benefits that are received because in many cases these people will have to pay for the provision of those facilities. They will be affected by the greatly decreased expenditure on hospital facilities, on community health projects, on transport, on roads and on local government facilities generally. All these indirect effects will be felt quite severely by this group. The second group which will be affected, the group which all the newspapers and many speakers have pointed out will be affected, will be the group in which the income earner receives average weekly earnings or about that figure. It extends from about $140 a week to about $220 a week and higher if both parents are earning. In these cases any benefits received from the child endowment proposals and any benefits received from tax indexation are wiped out straight away by the Medibank levy or, in the case of many of them, by the need to insure privately with the voluntary health funds, as many of them wish to do. 
This group is a very large group in the community. Generally the unit consists of parents and one or two children. They are generally young. They usually have a mortgaged home. They will lose their right to claim interest on the mortgage as a tax deduction. They generally live in the outer suburbs of cities or in country towns. They have a great need for the provision of sewerage, road works, hospitals, community health centres and child care facilities in general. In fact, they not only need those things; they also deserve them. These are the people who deserve a decent way of life in this country as much as anybody else. These are the people in their suburban homes, who frequently get up in the morning, travel to work in the city a fair distance away on inadequate public transport, often work in private industry in large buildings which are air conditioned and carpeted and then return at night on the same inadequate public transport, frequently to inadequately paved or unpaved roads and not uncommonly in our large cities and on the outskirts of our large cities to unsewered homes. 
-Perth may be different; I am not very familiar with it. These people realised 3 years ago that this sort of provision was necessary. They realised also that because of the way things had been going in Australia, the initiative could come only from a national government. These activities are reasonable national activities. It is reasonable that the national government provides funding, initiatives, planning facilities and, in consultation with the people at a more local level, oversees the development of these facilities. But we find that the urban and regional development projects of the Government are almost non-existent. We find that almost all government interest in the environment is gone. There is to be a cut of $200m in transport expenditure and hospital and community health spending is to be cut. 
I am fascinated by the priorities in this document and by those of honourable senators opposite. They accept with great equanimity the fact that in the Treasurer's statement child care expenditure has been cut and that expenditure on other facilities has been cut. Yet day after day in the Senate they rise to their feet asking the Government when millions of dollars will be spent on the reintroduction of the cadet corps, which the Army does not want, which it thinks is inefficient and which benefits only a few thousand people in our community. But the reason given time and time again for the cuts in government spending is that they will cut inflation. We recognised when in government that there would have to be some cuts in government spending. We made cuts in government spending and probably received more abuse when we made those cuts last September than the Government is now getting. But this across-the-board slash in expenditure on practically everything the Government does seems to me to ignore the needs of many of the people in the community, to ignore the benefits that have been achieved by many of the programs. Even worse, it seems that there is an attempt to push off on to the States and in some cases local government so many of the things that the Federal Government has done previously. 
No one has attempted to explain to me how this affects the inflation rate in the community. How can the transfer of government spending from the Federal Government to the State governments result in a reduction of inflation or, I ask from my knowledge of State governments and local governments, how will it result in more efficient spending. We can assume only that this decision was designed to set in train a reversion to the days when the national government in Australia did very little but discuss the future of Canberra, foreign affairs occasionally and pensions. Surely this will not work. Surely we cannot be asked to go back to the days when the States were competing colonies and when little thought was given to the development of Australia as a whole. I realise that we still have Premiers like  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  who believe that our international boundaries should be set by the States and not by the Federal Government. I realise that we still have people like  Sir Charles  Court and Lang Hancock who believe that our trading policies and export policies should be decided by the States and not oy the national government.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  even considers that Tasmania is a foreign country and that he should use resources diplomacy with Japan to prevent Japan buying Tasmanian meat. Is this the sort of situation that the present Government intends to see arise in this country? I believe that the care of children; transport needs, perhaps above all needs in the country; the development of reasonable urban facilities and the preservation of the environment are appropriate matters for discussion, decision and initiative by the national Parliament. 
I think that the worst feature of the Government's campaign against inflation and to reduce the deficit to an arbitrary level- although comparable countries have deficit levels of about the same percentage of their gross domestic product as our deficit- is the persistent and continuous denigration of public enterprise and initiative in this country and with that the denigration of those public servants who are part of this public enterprise. In so many speeches of Government members in this country we hear this persistent denigration of people in government departmentspeople who work very hard and efficiently and often under not very good conditions. I heard  Senator Knight,  the new senator from the Austalian Capital Territory, try to make some balance in this state of affairs because most of his constituents are public servants. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, my time is short. I believe that the philosophy behind the Government's actions of cutting government spending willy-nilly across the board, with very little consideration of priorities and the suggestion that public enterprise and initiative is always bad and that private enterprise and initiative is always good, is flying in the face of the practices used in the development of other countries. It is flying in the face of the future satisfactory development of this country. For that reason I am disappointed in general with the Treasurer's statement. I do not see how the policies exemplified will do anything to oversome unemployment in this country. In fact, I believe that they will make unemployment worse. I fear for future expenditure cuts in the Budget proposals. I am amazed at  Senator Young's  comment that in his wanderings around South Australia at the weekend he could not find any criticism of the Government's actions. I can only believe that  Senator Young  has followed the example of his Leader in the Senate and has stopped reading newspapers, stopped listening to the radio and stopped looking at television. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and refers to a report in a Canberra newspaper yesterday about an imported Japanese cigarette lighter which has the unfortunate tendency to explode in people 's hands. The report refers to the success of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council in preventing the sale of this in Canberra.  Mr King,  of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council, was reported as follows:   a major petrol company had been planning to market the lighter through its Canberra outlets. After an approach from the council, the company decided to divert the lighters from Canberra and sell them elsewhere. 
I ask the Minister: Will he ask his colleague to please ascertain which petrol company is involved and to which unfortunate parts of Australia the sale of this lighter has been diverted? Will he consult the Minister for Customs to prevent the importation of this lighter and will he inform the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council that it has a responsibility beyond Canberra to protect the citizens Australia from such explosions? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that investigating officers of her Department are being instructed or will in the future be instructed by the Commonwealth Police force in methods of questioning and investigating beneficiaries of the Department regarding the validity of continuation of their benefits? Does the Minister believe that such training is appropriate for a department whose chief purpose is to help those in need? 
I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for her answer. She has gone closer than the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has gone at any stage to admitting that in fact the premium that will be paid to opt out of Medibank or to avoid paying the Medibank levy if staying in Medibank will be fixed in relation to the fees set by the private health funds and not in relation to anything else. 
-Well, if it can be explained to me by any honourable senator on the opposite side how those premiums will be fixed I shall be happy to accept the explanation. But obviously this could not be explained in another place and it is not being explained now. It is obvious that the premium will be fixed at a rate which bears a relationship to the fees of the private health funds in order to keep 50 per cent of the people out of Medibank. 
I believe that this is as appropriate a time as any to ask this question, although it is hard to know where it fits into the legislation. I ask the Minister, as did  Senator Harradine,  whether we can have some idea of how the proposed Medibank premium will be fixed. Is it going to be fixed in relation to the private health costs? For the period from 1 October to the end of June next year, will the premium be calculated in proportion to the length of the year, as the levy will be? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that officers of the Department of Social Security have been instructed to increase their field officer staff? Is it also true that the field officer staff has been complemented by officers transferred from the Postal and Telecommunications Department? Have these officers been employed to investigate recipients of unemployment benefit with a view to reducing their number? What evidence does the Department have of widespread abuse of the system calling for such increased staff? 
I wish to make a few remarks in support of the motion moved by  Senator Guilfoyle.  As  Senator Guilfoyle  has said in her final remarks, part one of the report is obviously- from the superficial look I have had- a very complex document and presents difficulties to us all. Members of the expert committee have looked long and hard at this problem and have come out considerably divided on possible solutions to the problem of providing national superannuation. The proposition that we should supply to the citizens of this country a superannuation scheme which is protected from erosion by inflation is an attractive one and an important one, we believe. It must be looked at carefully, as I am sure it will be, by both sides of the House. It must be looked at to make sure that any scheme of this type coordinates with other social welfare schemes in the provision of income security and in the prevention of poverty in all sorts of people. We have a committee which is divided, despite having had a long look at the problems involved. 
Obviously further investigations by the Income Security Review Committee and all members of this Parliament will be necessary and a careful study of the alternatives must be made. We must be careful because schemes like this are potentially very expensive and we must be careful also that they do not pre-empt the further development of other worthwhile schemes involving government expenditure. The Opposition welcomes the tabling of this report. We will view it with great interest as will the rest of the community. I am sure that some of the suggestions I have seen will cause some controversy amongst various vested interests in the community. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
-The Minister may need to ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  for the information. I am afraid that she has misunderstood my question. The Minister announced that there would be a Medibank premium, set at approximately $300, which people could pay to avoid paying the levy.  Senator Harradine  and T would like to know how that sum of $300 is fixed and what guarantee there is that the premium will remain at the sum originally fixed. We want to know particularly whether the Medibank premium is going to be fixed by some calculation of the Government on costs, or is it going to be fixed at a figure relating it to the charges of the private health funds? In other words, it seems at the moment that it is fixed at $50 below what the private health funds are expected to offer for intermediate insurance. If the private health funds find that they can only offer that insurance for $400 a year, is the premium for Medibank going to go up to $350 a year? I think this is a vital question. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has said that the aim of the exercise is to get 50 per cent of the people out of Medibank. Is this the means that the Government is going to use to do that? 
In essence the Bills before the Senate at the moment represent in basis the Government's proposals to dismantle the health insurance program which was initiated by the previous Government. These proposals have been introduced with the excuse that there is some necessity to cut government expenditure in the field of health insurance and under the phoney pretence that the new proposals will provide freedom of choice in the field of medical care. But in fact the proposals will bring about the destruction of Medibank, despite the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his last policy speech, when he said: 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
We submit that these proposals in fact will greatly increase the administrative costs of and the difficulties in health insurance in this country. 
They will increase the total cost of health care and will cause confusion and uncertainty in the minds of patients; they have done that already. Together with the cuts in hospital expenditure and the cuts in community health expenditure they will downgrade the standard of public health care in Australia. Injustices will be done to low income earners and, especially in Victoria where the provision of public ward beds is inadequate, the proposals will force low income earners to pay more than their fair share for health care. Further, we believe that the proposals will remove the possibility of gaining important statistical data to plan for the future and will limit the ability of health authorities to detect those doctors- however few they may be- who rip off the public purse and the individual's purse by their immoral behaviour. The Opposition therefore opposes those Bills which have as their purpose the destruction and dismantling of Medibank. 
We do not oppose those measures which have as their aim the more effective registration and regulation of the private health funds, nor do we oppose those measures which will enable the Health Insurance Commission to prevent insurance companies and others involved in workers' compensation insurance and other fields from gaining benefit from the health insurance scheme. We certainly do not oppose the measures to increase the regulation of and the conditions imposed upon registration of voluntary health funds. Why should we oppose those measures? They were largely our proposals. They were introduced by us when we were in government; bitterly opposed by honourable senators opposite; defeated by the then Opposition- defeated, we were told, on a matter of principle. We were told that that legislation would lead us down the rocky road of socialism and it was dictatorial. In fact, one of the Bills was cited by the Governor-General as a reason for the last double dissolution. 
The Health Insurance Levy Bill provides for a levy of 2.5 per cent of taxable income on all incomes above a minimal level. For this standard ward accommodation will be available in hospitals and the reimbursement of 85 per cent of scheduled medical fees will be provided. This is the same as Medibank provides at present. Exemption from the levy can be obtained by paying a Medibank premium which the Government thinks- I repeat the word 'thinks'- will be $300 per annum for a family and $150 per annum for a taxpayer without dependants. This premium has been set up by the Government on the assumption that the voluntary health funds will supply intermediate ward cover and medical insurance at $350 per annum. 
-The funds have grave doubts about their ability to do this,  Senator Devitt.  We have grave doubts about the ability of many funds to do this. The premium is apparently set at a level of $50 below the existing voluntary health fund cover with the deliberate intention of forcing- I do not believe we should be euphemistic and say encouraging- people into the voluntary health funds. 
There is no choice in being forced,  Senator Walters.  Exemption can also be obtained from the levy by purchasing private medical and hospital cover from the voluntary health funds, thus severing all connections with Medibank. The third alternative is to pay the levy plus a premium estimated at $135 per family to obtain intermediate ward cover as well as Medibank cover. 
These changes and other changes allegedly arise from the investigations and findings of the Medibank Review Committee. This Committee was set up allegedly to investigate Medibank and suggest improvements. Its findings and reports have not been made public and, according to the Prime Minister, they will not be made public. This great change in the health insurance scheme of this country is to be made only 10 months after the scheme started. It is not to be made after public discussion or after public debate but after secret reports and negotiations. The reason for this is obvious. The main reason is that the Committee was instructed not to review Medibank but to produce a scheme which forces at least 50 per cent of the community out of Medibank. hose were the Committee's terms of reference, and that is what has happened. We believe the Treasury has even modified the Committee's scheme and in doing so has produced anomalies which have disadvantaged some low income earners. 
I think it is important for honourable senators to remember that the recent change in the tax rebate system has put many people previously not in the taxable income range into the taxable income range and therefore into the range at which they will pay the levy. The result of these changes which were hurriedly conceived on an ideological rather than on a practical basis is public confusion-who can deny it-and indignation. There is confusion even in the minds of members of the Government. In their haste to allay this confusion, members of the Government have produced a document explaining the options, but these options are hedged with ifs and buts which only add to the confusion. This is not surprising, I believe, when we consider that the pamphlet was drawn up by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  assisted by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who is an expert at producing documents like this. 
The Opposition opposes the imposition of the levy, but not because we oppose the principle of a levy. After all, we tried to impose a levy in the first place but were prevented from doing so, allegedly as a matter of principle, by the same people who now sit opposite. We oppose the levy first of all because we believe it is too high at 2.5 per cent. At this level it defeats the purpose of tax indexation and the new family allowance scheme for the vast majority of wage earners who are on or about the average weekly wage. The purpose of the new indexation proposals and allowance proposals is to put more money into the pockets of these people. We oppose the levy because the legislation provides for opting out, thus destroying the universality of Medibank. As well as the opting out clause the levy, by its nature, forces people out of Medibank on economic grounds. When forced to do so by the then Opposition, we funded Medibank from Consolidated Revenue which at least had the virtue of being roughly proportional- within the limits of our very imperfect taxation system- to people's ability to pay. 
I believe first of all we should look at who will go out of Medibank, who will be forced out of Medibank. On the Government's estimate those who have incomes exceeding $ 12,000 a year will opt out completely and those receiving an income in excess of $8,000 a year will opt out partly. 
-I will not opt out. Many, who for philosophical or ideological reasons may wish to support Medibank but also wish to retain some intermediate cover, will be forced out. They will be given the choice of paying the premium of $135 a year for intermediate hospital insurance-a total of $435 a year- or of buying intermediate cover from the funds at $350 a year, thus incurring a penalty of $80. This is just a ruse to present phoney alternatives and to force people into the funds. 
A particular difficulty will arise for the citizens of Victoria, particularly those who live in Melbourne. As a result of a succession of conservative governments in Victoria there is a chronic and disgraceful shortage of public standard beds. In fact, in Victoria the number of public beds per capita is practically half that of any other State. The difficulty of getting a public bed when one is ill is well known to the citizens of Victoria. The decreasing funds that will be made available by this Government will mean that this situation will worsen. Members of the public in Victoria know this and realise that to have any sort of chance of getting a bed when they are ill they must take out insurance with voluntary funds, no matter how unwilling they are to do so. 
The cruel fact,  Senator Walters,  is that at least in Victoria people on relatively low incomes will be forced to take out private insurance when they can ill afford to do so, because they know that is the only way in which they can get a bed in reasonable time. So much for the Government's freedom of choice. 
I am a Tasmanian,  Senator. I  will come to that. The effect of the tax levy and the health insurance premium on the consumer price index in this country is interesting. I am sure it will interest the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and others. It will interest other people if attempts are made to remove such significant areas of personal expenditure from the CPI. I believe that there will be many more people in the country, including the trade union movement, who will be very interested in this sort of thing, but I would like to know from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  what is planned there. 
We are also concerned about the administrative changes which will be caused by this new scheme. A not inconsiderable problem will be caused to various organisations in deciding who is in Medibank and who is not. The Health Insurance Commission will have problems continually altering its records and programs. The voluntary health funds I am sure have indicated to honourable senators opposite the problems they will have which will increase their difficulties of keeping records. They will have to notify the Health Insurance Commission of who is in and who is out and will have to provide proof for taxation purposes of who is in and who is out of the scheme. Also, the Taxation Office will have the added responsibility of determinig the liabilities of citizens to pay the levy. Also the much maligned and much harassed paymaster in various firms, including small firms, will have trouble determining who is to have these levies deducted from his wages and who is not. All this is to be introduced instead of retaining the simple and unified system we have now. The general publicwill have trouble, and is having trouble, deciding whether to be in or out of this scheme. A person with a varying income and the self-employed person with an uncertain income who does not know what he will earn for the rest of the year will be faced with the problem of assessing whether to be in or out of Medibank. That anyone will be helped by the explanatory pamphlet which has just been produced is a very moot point. Nobody can be helped now until he has some idea of what the voluntary health funds will do. 
Medibank this year had administrative costs of some $90m less than predicted and the number of claims were roughly as predicted. I believe that is extraordinary. I believe that it was incredible that even the number of claims could have been as close as predicted. With the settling down of the program the turn around of claims has been excellent. The much maligned computerscomputers which  Senator Sheil  is so keen on describing as sinister machines- are working very well. So, why should we replace this present scheme with such a cumbersome and administratively difficult scheme as the one which has been suggested. If choice and competition were the ideal for the Government, why not allow Medibank to offer private and intermediate hospitalisation insurance? At least then the competition that is so sacred to the Government would be between competitors offering the same goods. Perhaps the reason is that the Government and the funds realise that in his 1969 report Nimmo 's comments on the inefficiency of the various voluntary health funds were accurate. 
The aims of Medibank and the various CommonwealthState hospital agreements were to introduce a universal health scheme-I do not think anyone will question that they did this-to introduce an equitable system of health insurance compared with the gross inequities of the old scheme which combined a flat rate contribution and tax deductions which were of more benefit to the high income earners than to the low income earners; to give the States a better deal in funding hospitals; and to provide an administratively efficient scheme. The total cost of health care in this country will not be altered by the new changes. 
-The health funds, I might add, are not producers of goods or of wealth. They are producers of services and as such it makes no difference from where the expenditure comes, whether it is from Government or from these funds. Before Medibank was introduced the harbingers of doom in this community, particularly in the medical profession, had 2 very firm and great objections and predictions. The first was that the public hospitals would be flooded with patients and overloaded and that the private hospitals would be empty and go broke. We heard that many times in this chamber and throughout the country. The second was that patients in their thousands would over-utilise the scheme. I will not accuse  Senator Baume  of making that prediction. The simple fact is that public hospitals have not become overcrowded. They are not flooded with patients. In some States, including Tasmania, the complaint is that there are too many people in private hospitals. All investigations have shown that patients have not grossly over-utilised the scheme, but some doctors have and this has been admitted by people on both sides of this House and in both chambers of this Parliament. The system, through its efficiency in detecting these fraudulent practitioners, has resulted in charges being laid. I suggest that there will be little hope of detecting such breaches under the new proposals. 

 -For Senator Walters information, there are charges in the pipeline but I suggest that as the Government is hers she ask her Minister. It is inevitable that the new system of health insurance will increase the total cost of health care- the toal cost to the community, that is,  Senator Walters.  The Government may be able to point proudly, as I am sure it can, to book entries of public expenditure and say that costs have been reduced but it certainly will not be able to in view of the predictions of certain members of the Government when increased administrative costs of departments other than the Department of Health are taken into account. Inevitably the public will pay more in toto through the plethora of voluntary health funds and through the increased cost of private care. 
The strangest proclamation we have heard is the Minister's pious hope that the levy and premium arrangements will put a brake on medical fees. This pious hope is doomed to failure and would bring hollow laughs from ex-Prime Minister Gorton, certainly from  Mr Justice  Nimmo, and cynical laughs, as we have heard, from members of the General Practitioners' Society in Australia. The provision for doctors to bulk bill and still charge the 15 per cent gap to patients will be a bonanza for some unscrupulous practitioners who now demand payment first and run what we call cash register practices. The system of health care we have in this country is not efficient, I believe. It emphasises treatment rather than prevention. The charging of specific fees for specific operations and treatment leads to the performance of unnecessary procedures, a fact recognised all over the world and even in the home of free enterprise, the United States of America, where the development of health maintenance organisations has caused a new look in medical practice. It is known by all doctors, and admitted by more and more, that the incidence of all sorts of operations is higher under a fee for service system than under a system of health maintenance organisations or salaried service. But we in this country have become used to the fee for service system. We have been subjected to a barrage of propaganda that the crossing of the palm with silver preserves a sacred doctor-patient relationship and somehow leads to more efficient medical service. Public hospitals have been given the stigma of a charity or a workhouse. In the past public hospitals have been neglected in respect of finance and facilities. 
Medibank, particularly in Queensland and Tasmania, has changed this situation dramatically. More and more doctors- in excess of 40 per cent and increasingly- are now entering salaried service. The percentage is increasing despite the richer financial gains in private practice. Public hospitals have improved their general facilities as a result of public pressure and increased Commonwealth funding in recent years. The Government now plans to force more and more people out of Medibank and out of public hospitals in an attempt to downgrade the public sector. Propaganda by honourable senators opposite and by some members of the Australian Medical Association, particularly members of the General Practitioners Society in Australia, is aimed deliberately and falsely at holding up private health care as the most desirable and efficient form of health treatment. This assertion is not true but is the main aim and exercise of some who are trying to dismantle Medibank. 
The provision of health maintenance care in both private and public form is the only way forward for health care in this country. The provision of economic disease prevention and treatment programs will come but while they are coming I suggest that the provision of equitable universal health insurance, as is provided by the present Medibank system, is essential and should not be destroyed by the sort of philosophical prejudices of those who seek to perpetuate the archaic differences of the past. In attempting to dismantle Medibank in this underhand way, without discussion and without consultation with interested parties, including State governments, the Commonwealth Government has created enormous confusion which, as I have said, is not relieved by the pamphlet which has just been released because the pamphlet is nothing more than a political document produced far beyond the time when decisions have to be made and far before the time that information on which decisions can be made should be available. The decisions that have to be made by people do not have to be made until October and because of the gaps in information available, the explanatory pamphlets do not help. 
The Opposition believes that until the facts are known the public and the Parliament are not in a position to judge the situation. We believe that the recommendations of the Review Committee should be made public so that we can judge where and why the Government's proposals differ from what is presently provided. The members of the Review Committee almost certainly propose a phasing in of the levy over the low income scale. The Treasury almost certainly equally opposed this on economic grounds. In doing this the Government has left some low income groups paying almost as much in levies as in tax. Until the voluntary health funds can produce figures we will not know what is happening. We can be certain, however, that the figures will vary from fund to fund. We can be certain they will vary from State to State. In some States, because of low medical fees, the intermediate fund premiums of the voluntary health funds may well be as low as the suggested Medibank premiums. In other States, such as Tasmania, where there are no private and intermediate beds in public hospitals the fund charges may be disproportionately high. 
State governments, both Labor and conservative, are expressing concern and outright opposition to the proposals. One can quote the remarks of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  of all people, on the weekend. The reneging on the hospital agreements under the pretence of this last minute legal technicality we believe is a fraudulent and immoral act. These changes were conceived in haste. We believe the ramifications have not been thought through. They depend on the ability of the health funds to produce a service at a low enough premium which we believe is a doubtful ability. They depend on the cooperation of the doctors which in the past has been non-existent with all governments of all persuasions. But even with both these conditions fulfilled the Government has destroyed the universal nature of Medibank. It destroyed an efficient system which was built up in only 10 months and accepted by the people of this country. This proposal does nothing for the standard of health care. In fact, it will increase the total cost of health care. It will destroy the basis on which reforms can be made in the future. Therefore we oppose the 4 Bills which we believe cause the dismantling of a good and efficient scheme. We do not oppose the other 2 Bills. We will deal with them in Committee. We ask the Government to think again and to consult with those concerned, including the State governments, and to produce the reforms at a later date when everyone has had a chance to consider them. 
-The Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 provides for increased child endowment or family allowance payments to mothers or, in some cases, fathers of children. These increases are allegedly being paid for by the removal of tax rebates for children on our present tax scales. There is some doubt in my mind and the minds of the other Opposition senators about the mathematics of this last claim but I will come to that later in my speech. The Opposition does not oppose this measure. It recognises it as an advance in the evolution of family and income support services in the community. Neither do we oppose the change in the tax rebate system to the family allowance payment system. I contrast this attitude of the present Opposition with the attitude of some honourable senators opposite when last year we changed the tax deduction for children to a tax rebate system. There were a few people who were in favour of the tax deduction system and these people are now silent even though the tax rebate system has gone too. The measures in this Bill are a modification of some of the recommendations put forward by Professor Henderson in his poverty report. They were recommended as interim measures to relieve ' poverty in families, particularly large families, in our community. The pity of it is that in too many cases the effect of the increase in endowment payments and the effect of the tax indexation measures are cut back and, in some cases, wiped out by the unnecessary Medibank levy. 
There has been much publicity to this change in our system of family allowances. There has been much trumpeting and excitement among members of the Government parties in their praise of these measures and their proclamation of them as the greatest advance in social welfare since the industrial revolution. We recognise that these measures involve a transfer of money to large families, to rich families as well as poor, and also a transfer of money within families which is an innovation in this country. They give increases in money paid to some very poor families. However, I impress upon the Senate, and I would not like the publicity that has been given to these measures to get away from it, that the measures do not solve the problems of poor families. Most members of the Government parties would admit that they are not the be all and end all of welfare services and do not remove the obligation on the Government to look at other measures. 
Along with these measures there needs to be an increase in child care and family support services in general as well as an increase in the mother's and guardian's allowance. This was recognised by Professor Henderson. I would not like a sense of complacency to arise amongst members of the Government parties or amongst the community about the provision of family support services now that we have had this change in family allowances. So many of our large families and single parent families live in areas devoid of family support services and the extra money supplied to mothers in this way will not buy the services. I know that the views of people like Professor Friedman are very fashionable in the higher echelons of our Government. In his view the problems of the disadvantaged can be overcome by giving them cash. Somehow this is supposed to retain their independence. It is supposed to give them the ability to buy the services they need. 
I am not criticising it in that way but there is a desperate need for these services which will not be satisfied by the provision of a number of dollars. We all have to look at the need for a balance between the necessity for cash and the necessity for services for I believe that this balance is an important one. I am sure that many members of the Government parties will do so but I am also frightened that some will use this change in the endowment system as an excuse to avoid looking at the further provision of services. 
There are a few questions about the outcome of the legislation which I would like to ask. Firstly, we are told that these changes balance out, that the increase of $780m in endowment payments is balanced by the gain of $780m in revenue from the cutting out of tax rebates for children. It certainly would seem that cutting rebates will result in increased tax revenue of some $780m but we understand that the agreement between the States and the Commonwealth at the Premiers Conference guaranteed the States 34 per cent to 35 per cent of general tax revenue. On my reckoning that means that some $2 50m of this increased revenue should go to the States, or the States will claim it should. I ask whether it will. If it does there will be another $250m to be found to pay for this family allowances program. The exercise fascinates me. The answer may be obvious but I can see interesting discussions between the States and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  if it is decided not to give this increase in tax revenue to the States. 
Secondly, I am sure that every honourable senator has received letters and telephone calls about the problem of the separated or divorced husband who is paying maintenance for children. I suppose there may even be some cases of the separated or divorced wife paying maintenance to her former husband for their children. These people would lose their tax rebate while still paying maintenance to the parent who is looking after the children and getting this increased endowment. One would hope that in the investigations of the difficulties between the Family Law Act and the Social Services Act some way would be found to allow these people to get a decrease in their maintenance payments in line with any increase in endowment the supporting parent may get. 
Another problem was raised today. I am not a lawyer, nor am I an accountant who indulges in tax avoidance, but perhaps  Senator Wright  or some of the other lawyers in the Senate can help the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to clear up this problem. It seems that there are people in this country who set up trusts for their children to avoid the payment of death duties. These people, therefore, do not now get the benefit of the tax rebate. However, when the rebate is abolished they get the extra endowment. I suppose the best example of this is the Premier of Queensland who claims that he will not pay any death duties because all his funds are in trust for his children. One wonders whether the Treasurer or the Taxation Office should not look at this situation. There seems to be a loss of revenue here and an unnecessary assistance to those who are wealthy enough or skilful enough to put all their money into endowments for their children. 
The Premier claimed this in a speech. 
-I am not well enough up with the Premier of Queensland. I do not know. If those remarks do not apply to the Premier of Queensland then I apologise to him. I hope that those 3 problems-perhaps minor to us but major to some people- can be answered. However, I return to the report of Professor Henderson. He recommended increases of this order in child endowment to relieve poverty in families with children. The recommendations have been varied somewhat by the Government; not that I offer criticism about this. More has been given to the first, second and third children. But if the rise in the consumer price index or inflation, which has occurred since Professor Henderson's report, is considered the increase is not that much more. Less has been given to the fourth and later children than Professor Henderson recommended if inflation is taken into account. 
This recognises the fact which many people forget- that in absolute numbers there are more families in poverty with one or two children than with four or five children. Of course, this obviously reflects the spread of children throughout families in our community. It also results in the measures costing the Government, on its own reckoning, no increase in expenditure. As Professor Henderson recognised, as we recognise and as the Government recognises, this is not all that is needed. Professor Henderson's recommendationsthey were only interim- did not mention only increases in endowments. In the same chapter of the major report he recommended changes in other fields. He recommended that mothers' and guardians' allowances should be increased to ensure that pensioners and beneficiaries would be protected from changes in inflation. Honourable senators will remember that earlier in this session we moved an amendment to a Bill to provide that these allowances should be indexed to keep up with inflation. 
Professor Henderson recommended that supportive family services of all types should be made available on a local basis to allow more independence and to give an increased range of choices to such families in terms of allocating times between earning and staying at home. He recommended as of considerable importance that home help services be made available to those who needed them rather than to those who could afford them. He recommended many other things, such as the necessity for infant welfare services and protection services for children. All these matters are stressed by Professor Henderson in this package of recommendations. It is a pity that the Australian Assistance Plan is to be more or less abolished as it was one of the means available for the local development of many of these services. I do not make these comments to gain political points or to denigrate the changes which have been made in our endowment services. I wish merely to point out that the changes should be put into perspective as they were by Professor Henderson as an interim and evolutinary change on the way towards developing a comprehensive income support scheme. 
I hope that these changes will not be used us an excuse for not looking at the problems of mothers' or guardians' allowances and all the other things we have mentioned. We believe that these matters should be looked at and indexed and increased from time to time, if the Government will not have it that they be increased automatically with changes in the consumer price index. I impress on the Senate that we do not believe that this change relieves the necessity for the provision of supporting services. Poverty, and the inward-looking hopelessness it provokes, needs more than the provision of a few dollars. It involves more than the Department of Social Security with its relief, because child care, transport, education, housing, health and legal aid are all involved in getting over this problem. I think that all thinking people on both sides of the Parliament recognise this. Reports which have come out on this subject recently certainly recognise it. Ultimately, we need a more comprehensive and general plan of income support. We need a scheme which involves less categorisation in our welfare services. We hope that some day someone will come up with a scheme of a guaranteed minimum income with the need for very few supplementary services. We support the Bill but express the hope that the euphoria expressed by some honourable senators opposite will not lead to neglect in these other fields. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: In view of the Government's expressed wish that State governments should now take responsibility for the funding of the Australian Assistance Plan, does the Government intend to apply this policy in its own Territories? In particular, has the Minister had discussions with her colleague, the Minister for the Northern Territory, regarding the future of the Regional District Councils of Social Development in Darwin, Alice Springs and Katherine, and the essential projects to which they are committed? 
-In supporting the motion that the Senate take note of the paper, the Opposition welcomes the tabling and the production of this very important report by the Reverend George Martin. My only concern is that, as the report is in excess of 500 closely typed pages with 143 recommendations, I am uncertain when any of us will get the time to study it closely in the recess. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I realise that undoubtedly my request will be refused, but we on this side of the chamber would like to hear and to have tabled in this place, if possible, the Press statement which is to be put out this afternoon. On looking at this highly political document which the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  has just tabled, I invite the Senate to compare the statements made in this document with the statements made by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  on 20 May 1976 during his fiscal policy decisions statement. We cannot look at research grants in one isolated little group like this.  Mr Lynch  looked at the overall position of science research grants when making his statement. 
-That is right-a fortnight ago. Page 1803 of House of Representatives  Hansard  records  Mr Lynch  's statement, as it refers to science, as follows: 
Budget outlays on research activities through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other bodies- including the provision for research grants under the aegis of the Australian Research Grants Committeein 1976-77 are to be held to broadly the same real levels of spending as in 197S-76. This nonetheless represents a reduction of about $20m on the projected levels of expenditure for these programs. 
I invite the Senate to compare that statement with the statement made by  Senator Webster  this afternoon. The statement of  Senator Webster  deliberately refers to the Australian Research Grants Committee projects but does not look at what the Government is spending overall on science research. The Government's overall expenditure on science research is the reason for the complaints by the scientists in this country that there will be a brain drain and gives a very different picture from the nonsense that we read in  Senator Webster's  statement this afternoon. I assume that the same sorts of statements will be made in  Senator Webster's  Press report and they should be treated in the same way. I shall leave my remarks at that as I understand that some other people want to speak on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) In how many cases have decisions of the Department of Social Security and/or the Commonwealth Employment Service been reversed by Social Security Appeals Tribunals. 
What were the original grounds for termination of benefits in these cases. 
-The Opposition opposes the States Grants (Hospital Operating Costs) Bill 1976. The superficial aim of this Bill is to provide funds from the Commonwealth to the States for hospital costs allegedly because the hospital agreements between the Commonwealth and the States negotiated last year are invalid. The Opposition, together with many others, does not accept that these agreements are invalid. Even if they were, we believe it would be better for the Commonwealth to introduce, and more appropriate for this Parliament to pass, validating legislation for those agreements. The true reason for this Bill is that the Government wishes to renege on the Commonwealth-State hospital agreements. It is using the opinion of 2 lawyers, one a Minister in the present Government, to dishonour the agreements and negotiate new ones. The Government is determined to opt out of its responsibility to fund public hospitals. It is already doing so in another sphere- repatriation. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  has announced that the Government will save $2.2m on repatriation costs by admitting repatriation pensioners to public hospitals as hospital service patients. What the Minister does not say is that in doing this the States will have to pay the $2.2m saved by the Commonwealth because the States pay 50 per cent of the cost of hospital service patients. This is the first Government in the history of this country to refuse to accept full responsibility for repatriation patients. 
The history of this legislation is very interesting. The Government was determined for ideological reasons to dismantle the system of health funding we have in this country. First of all, it announced the new Medibank changes. The Opposition accepts that the Government has the numbers in this and the other chamber to pass legislation to force such changes through. The Government announced at the same time that the hospital funding system would have to change and that it would like to renegotiate the agreements which were negotiated last year between the States and the Commonwealth. However the State governments, including the conservative State governments led by  Mr BjelkePetersen, Mr Hamer  and  Sir Charles  Court, did not like this and they pointed out to the Commonwealth that they already had written agreements, and they made threatening noises and told the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  just where they stood. They said that they did not want these agreements torn up; they wanted them to continue. And so they should. Then and only then was it conveniently discovered that in the late night hours  Mr Ellicott  and the SolicitorGeneral gave opinions that the agreements were invalid and, in the words of the Prime Minister, the Auditor-General would not approve the paying of these funds.  Mr Fraser  said that this was very unfortunate and that the agreements now would have to be renegotiated. 
These agreements between the various States and the Commonwealth were drawn up after hard, long and careful negotiation between the Commonwealth and the States. The legal officers of the Commonwealth and the States were involved. In Tasmania both Houses of Parliament looked at the agreement. The legal officers of the Queensland, Tasmanian, Victorian, Western Australian and New South Wales Governments still assert that the agreements are valid. It has been revealed that the Auditor-General has never questioned the payments and has not given the opinion that they should not be paid. We now have the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  seeing a good thing going, I suppose, announcing that he is looking at the legal technicalities of the various transport agreements between the Commonwealth and the States that come under his jurisdiction, to see whether he can get out of his responsibilities. This is a sordid and shabby episode in government in this country. 
The Government on advice conveniently coming just at the right time intends going back on negotiated agreements with the States in a vital area of national interest. It does not intend to introduce legislation to overcome the objections of its advisers but will use them instead to bargain with the States. As I said before, in Tasmania the agreements were looked at not only by the legal officers of the Tasmanian Government but by both Houses of the Parliament. They were passed by both Houses of Parliament. The present Government's Liberal Party colleagues in the Tasmanian Parliament did not question the validity of these agreements at any stage. The Opposition believes that if in the future of this country Commonwealth and State agreements are to be upset on the views of 2 lawyers and then this discovery is to be used to negotiate previously agreed conditions, Commonwealth-State relations will be a shambles. Agreements will be utterly worthless. 
We oppose the legislation, first of all, because we believe it is unnecessary. We oppose it because we believe it is an example of unscrupulous and dishonest behaviour by the Government. We suspect the way in which the alleged legal technicalities were discovered. We express our concern because if this sort of behaviour goes on the future of Federal-State relations in this country will be very dicey indeed. I believe that in those few short words I have summed up our disagreement with the Bill. We intend to vote against the motion that the Bill be read a second time but shall not continue the argument any more. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the reasons for the termination of unemployment benefit in 72 cases as a result of inquiries made by officers in the Minister's Department in the KensingtonFlemington area of Melbourne from 4 May to 12 May 1976. 
When were those whose benefits were terminated informed of the decisions. 
What date did their benefits cease. 
Were the individuals concerned notified of their right of appeal. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many officers of the Department of Social Security have been permanently or temporarily appointed as field officers to investigate recipients of unemployment benefits. 
How many officers work on investigations of other social service beneficiaries. 
Are these their sole duties, or are they also engaged in the other work of the Department. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister clarify the way in which Government assistance is to be provided in respect of child care, as a result of the possible change forecast in this area in the 'minibudget. 
If the Government does alter the criteria applicable to the provision of financial assistance to child care centres, will it ensure that those parents who have entered into financial commitments and paid fees in good faith are not penalised or disadvantaged. 
In respect of students with pre-school children undertaking courses at technical colleges and tertiary institutions, will the Government ensure that courses of study will not be disrupted and that Government money already expended on their education will not be wasted as a result of a change in government policy midway through the academic year. 
Will the Government acknowledge that many of the parents involved deserve at least some support and encouragement because they are willing to improve their own and their families' lives through hard work and initiative. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the estimated expenditure for 1976-77 in the Budget released last night which shows that there is an estimated reduction in the expenditure of $33. 6m for sickness and unemployment benefits. As both these benefits have been increased under the indexation arrangements and as the Treasurer himself and every other political commentator in this country expects that unemployment will not decrease and many expect it to rise, will the Minister inform us how this estimate has been reached? Does she expect a reduction in expenditure on unemployment benefits? Will the reduction result from a more strict work test on applicants for unemployment benefit or does she expect an epidemic of good health to overtake the country and the reduction to occur in sickness benefits? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should introduce legislation to provide for the statutory establishment and funding of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
I present the following petition from 269 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate and the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Price Index months after goods and services have risen, and that many medications, formerly a pharmaceutical benefit, must now be paid for. 
In addition, State Housing Authority waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners become never less, and funeral costs increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically on announcement of increases in the quarterly Consumer Price Index. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974, eroded by inflation, be updated and increased to overcome the back-log. 
The funeral benefit be updated to 60 per cent of a reasonable funeral cost. This benefit, when introduced in 1943 at 200 shillings ($20.00), was seven times the pension at that time of 27 shillings ($2.70) per week, or more than twice the basic wage of 97 shillings ($9.70). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to the answer she gave earlier this afternoon to a question by  Senator Donald  Cameron. It seemed to me and to other honourable senators on this side of the House that the Minister was suggesting that those pensioners who receive a pensioner medical service card will not have to pay the 
Medibank levy. I understand that a pensioner medical service card is issued to a single pensioner who earns up to $33 a week in excess of his pension and to married pensioners who earn up to $55 a week in excess of their pensions, and that the booklet produced by the Governmentthe Commonwealth Department of Healthabout Medibank points out that a single pensioner who receives an income of more than $50 a week and married pensioners who receive an income of more than $82 a week, will have to pay the Medibank levy, which has been confirmed in various statements by  Mr Hunt.  Will the Minister tell us whether there has been a change in plans in relation to the payment of levy by pensioners under the Medibank scheme? If there has been a change, will the Minister arrange for a new booklet to be produced? 
-The Opposition will not oppose the Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Bill 1976. The intention to abolish this Commission was announced by the previous Government. That decision has been reaffirmed and now put into legislative act by the present Government. The Commission was established in 1973 because it was felt that a need existed for an independent body to evaluate the social welfare systems of this country, to advise the government of the day on the effectiveness and efficiency of its welfare policies, to conduct and commission research and data gathering, and to recommend how new initiatives could be introduced and how the current system of welfare could be better co-ordinated to suit the needs and priorities of this nation- the needs and priorities largely of alleviating and preventing poverty. 
It may be that when the Commission was set up this combination of powers made life difficult. It may be that the advisory roles of the Commissionof necessity private roles- and the role of public reporting of its findings and its researches, were difficult- some would say perhaps impossibleand caused conflicts that were impossible to resolve. I am sure that the conflicts which arose between these various roles complicated the lives of the Commission and the Commissioners. I am certain this caused extreme irritation to those people in the community whose role is purely advisory. I suggest also that the conflicts were as much externally originated as internally. 
The Commission, I believe, carried out in its short lifetime an imaginative program of investigation and research, and improved greatly the information available on welfare systems. Above all it demonstrated the need for further research and discussion. It also demonstrated the deplorable lack of statistical data in the welfare field. One would hope that the work of the Social Welfare Commission and the work of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and other inquiries into various aspects of welfare will enable us and inspire us to take a more thoughtful and rational approach to the provision of welfare. That this Government, and the previous Government in fact, found it desirable to halt this experiment- one can only say it was an experiment after the Commission's short lifetimeis of some regret to me personally. The Commission was a first in this country; in fact it was probably a first in the world. It was an attempt by a government to establish an organisation with expertise and the capacity to harness the expertise existing in the community. It was an attempt by a government to establish an organisation which could sit back and look at the welfare field with a broad view, to make dispassionate analyses of the problems and suggest alternatives to the present system and within the present system. That it is to be disbanded is, I believe, as much a reflection on the system of government that we work under as a reflection on anything else. 
I believe there are lessons to be learnt from the experiences of the Commission in dealing with the bureaucracy and in dealing with the political aspects of our government. It is no secret that at some levels the bureaucracy was disturbed and angered by the establishment of such a commission. The processes of government in this country meant that any independence given to the Commission was at best curtailed by the influences of the Public Service- influences such as that of the Public Service Board on staffing, perhaps of the Treasury on finance and of other established departments in the welfare field in general. When I speak of the welfare field I do not mean only the Department of Social Security. This experience was not confined to the Social Welfare Commission. Having been a member of the Public Accounts Committee of this Parliament, with the present Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  having heard the evidence of witnesses from various departments, both old and new, on the difficulties of staffing and the difficulties of establishing new schemes, and having more recently read the report of  Dr Coombs  and his colleagues, one realises how difficult it is to change anything, how difficult it is to innovate under our present system. 
I believe that the failure of some departments, and the bureaucracy of some departments, to cooperate with the Commission, despite requests and despite even directions to do so, reflected the hostility which was present from the very establishment of the Commission. The lack of staff which the Commission suffered and the inability to overcome the deplorable lack of hard statistical information were inhibiting factors in an organisation which attempted- and which I believe attempted gallantly- to have a meaningful look at the overall welfare problems of this country. 
Another problem that I believe the Commission had is that the welfare field in general and the social security field in general does not only involve the Department of Social Security but also involves departments dealing with education, housing, the environment, urban and regional development and in particular the Attorney-General's Department in respect of legal aid. All these departments have become very compartmentalised. It is very difficult for any government of any persuasion to co-ordinate the activities of these various departments. I believe, as  Dr Coombs  has pointed out, that these departments in their own way are very jealous of their own responsibilities, their own areas of activity and their own power and view an intrusion like that of the Social Welfare Commission as an unwelcome one to say the least. 
The experience of the Social Welfare Commission is a reminder to us all of the importance placed on power of various sorts in our systemthe importance of power to the bureaucracy as well as the importance of power to the political arm of government at any level.  Dr Coombs  in his address to the National Press Club recently alluded to the fact that there are some people- I repeat, some people- in the upper echelons of bureaucracy, and I would say that there are certainly some in the upper echelons of the political arm of government in this country, who have established themselves and who will carefully guard their areas of responsibility and power against the intrusion of others. 
So it was that we had a relatively unconventional, a frequently abrasive and sometimes assertive organisation on the scene which had difficulties with both the political and the bureaucratic sides of government, and added to this were other problems. The Commission was given the task very early in the piece of overseeing the introduction of the Australian Assistance Plan. As honourable senators will know, this was another innovation attempting to involve the people in the community at the grass roots level in social welfare, in social planning and in determining their own priorities in the community. This organisation was seen by both local governments and State governments as a threat to their power and influence. Despite the active participation of members of all political parties at all levels of involvement in politics in various regional councils in the Australian Assistance Plan, the Plan was in fact continually pointed to as a centralist plot, a plot, I suppose, leading us down the rocky road of socialism. Other colourful phrases are used so often by some supporters of the Government. 

 -Certainly Mr Chipp never said that. Certainly there are many members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in the various States involved in the Australian Assistance Plan- even some in  Senator Tehan  's State- who expressed great disappointment that the Plan will not continue. 
-We will come to that in a moment. The States are not happy about taking over the Australian Assistance Plan. No State is happy about taking it over. Any State that attempted to take it over without some guarantee of finance would be unwise and I am sure that no State will. 
The reaction of some members of the bureaucracy to both the announcement by the previous Government and the announcement by this Government of the abandonment of the Social Welfare Commission was at times one of indecent haste to be in at the kill, to be in at the dismemberment of the Commission. Last year an attempt was made to deplete the Social Welfare Commission of staff before details of arrangements that were to be made were even announced and certainly before any legislation was even at the drafting stage. This attempt failed. It failed because administrative action to overcome the statutory body, set up by statute of this Parliament, was successfully resisted by the Commissioners themselves. I would suggest that a similar thing has happened in the lifetime of this Government. 
The Minister stated in her second reading speech that the Government had approved som&gt; projects such as the Family Services Committee and the various research projects and fellowship and they would be absorbed by the Department after the Act was repealed, but until that hap pened they would continue with the Com mission. I would suggest that this is no fault o the Minister. I am not being particularly critical of her. But this has not happened. Transfers have been made although the repealing legislation has not been passed through the Parliament. In fact, administrative action has preceded the actions of this Parliament. 
I would question the advisability of allowing officers of any department or the Deputy Chairman of the Commission to treat the passage of this repealing Bill through the Parliament as a formality even though that may be true. I would question the propriety of leaving all the functions and powers of the Commission in the hands of one person without the calling of a meeting of Commissioners since the announcement of the disbandment was made. It may be, as I said before, that this repealing legislation is a formality, but I believe that the due processes of the Parliament are probably worth respecting in this case as much as any other and they appear not to have been respected here. 
I wish to pay my respects to  Mrs Coleman,  the commissioners and the members of the staff of the Social Welfare Commission for the work that they did and the contribution they have made to the development of social welfare policy in this country. A perusal of any of the papers, the productions or the research projects of the commission in its short life reveals much which will long be useful to all of us who are interested in social welfare and will be a useful reference, I believe, to all people concerned in the welfare field in Australia. 
I would hope that the social welfare research centre to be set up in New South Wales will provide a basis on which future advancement can be made in this field. I hope that the consultative committees, both national and State, will be useful. As yet, we have had little detail on how these will be set up and what their various functions will be. One understands that the members of the various consultative committees will be nominated by the directors of the departments in each State. One understands that the committees will consist of a variety of people involved in the welfare field, including departmental members, members of voluntary welfare organisations and, one would hope, consumers in the welfare field. I think we would all be interested to know how consumer representatives could be elected and how they would be selected by a departmental process. Personally, I do not share the belief of the Minister expressed in her second reading speech that consolidating advice on research on and into social welfare matters within the Department is necessarily a good thing unless there is careful outside assessment of the advice, the effects of this advice and evaluation of the ultimate outcome of the various plans introduced. 
I accept the fact that governments must make decisions on needs and priorities and I would have it no other way. I accept the fact that governments must take responsibility for these decisions. However, I believe that the advice arising from too structured an organisation such as the Department is not necessarily the best advice. An overall look at the intermeshing and the co-ordination of the various welfare departments by outside evaluation is necessary. The advice of outside bodies at the moment, worthy as they often are, on many occasions reflects the prejudices and the functions of the various members of those bodies and one rarely gets a dispassionate opinion.  Senator Missen  suggested earlier that I sounded as though I was opposing this legislation. 
I am not opposing this legislation but as I said earlier in my speech, it is with some regret that I see the ending of the Social Welfare Commission and what I have regarded as a very useful contribution to welfare research and co-ordination in this country. I repeat what I said at the commencement of my speech: I think the downfall- I specifically do not use the word 'failure'- of the Social Welfare Commission reflects as much the failures of all of us in the processes of Government in this country as it reflects anything that the Social Welfare Commission did or was involved in. Governments of all persuasions need dispassionate and disinterested advice. I believe, in its way, the Social Welfare Commission succeeded. While not opposing the legislation, I certainly express regret that this fine experiment did not succeed. In the words of the title of the final paper of the Commission, 'it was an idea before its time'. Perhaps we may see a similar body set up in the future. 
-In the spirit of unanimity and peace abroad tonight I announce that the Opposition will not oppose the Aged Persons Hostels Amendment Bill. Despite this fact the Opposition certainly does not give any indication that it approves of the Government's policies, at present or in the future, on the provision of aged persons accommodation in this country. The Bill, which has been seen on the Senate notice paper for some time, is designed to amend the Aged Persons Hostels Act to enable those voluntary bodies which are entitled to assistance under the Act to maintain their entitlement beyond the time limits imposed by the present legislation. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is introducing 2 amendments to the Bill tonight. They are machinery amendments and the Opposition will not oppose them although we, and I am sure the Minister, would have appreciated longer notice than we received of those amendments. 
The original legislation was introduced in 1 972 because of the realisation by the then Minister for Social Security that there had developed an overall shortage of accommodation for the aged. The accommodation which was available and which was provided for the aged was not always appropriate to the needs of those people. The then Minister assessed the need as being one for more hostel accommodation and that there needed to be a crash program of building hostels to make up the leeway which had developed over the years. Progress was made but there was some constraint on the progress possible. In 1974 the legislation was amended to allow transfer of rights to benefits under the Act to other organisations enabling a further expansion of the program. Approval was given to outstanding applications in August 1 975 so that applicants would be eligible under the Act in the knowledge and on the understanding of the Minister of the day and of the people concerned that they would not all be funded at once but that in 2 or 3 years the backlog would be overcome. 
The Bill extends the time indefinitely in which the projects can be commenced. The present legislation provides for commencement by 27 September this year. It does this by allowing construction to commence within 12 months of approval of the grant. The amendments which will be moved by the Minister tonight correct certain difficulties in the original legislation presented to the Parliament. The uncertainty of the Government's intention as to the future time scale of completion of this scheme is of some concern to the Opposition, especially in view of the announcements in May and in the recent Budget of the Government's cutbacks in spending on accommodation for the aged generally. We find it very difficult to understand how a Government which proclaims concern for projects of this type to be completed on a basis of needs and priorities in the community should cut back spending by 36 per cent and probably in real money terms by some 40 per cent to 45 per cent in an area where there is an acknowledged backlog of suitable accommodation available. Of course, we will have more to say about this in the Budget debate. 
We express our concern that the people who are to build this sort of accommodation will know where they are. The scheme should not be hampered by any general restraints on Government spending to the extent that obviously there have been this year. The total problem of care for the aged, as is obvious to everyone, is an increasingly urgent one for government and for the whole community. It seems to me that the problem arises from factors in our society which are largely beyond the control of any legislature. There is an increasing percentage of aged persons in our community caused partly by the increasing birth rate and, to a lesser extent, by the small increase in longevity. These are the primary sources of the problem. But the problem probably of greater importance is that our society in its post industrial phase has developed into one of nuclear families where families of 2 generations live in accommodation where there is neither the ability nor often the desire for immediate members of families- for sons, daughters or anybody else- to care for the increasing numbers of aged persons. 
Much as many of us may regret the passing of the biologically extended family with several generations under one roof or close by, I think we must accept that it is a fact of life. It is a situation which is difficult or impossible to change. Certainly it is not amenable to change by legislation or by any number of words spoken in this place. Assistance can be given and I believe should be given to encourage the care of the aged in their own homes or in the homes of families. But I believe the evidence points to the fact that this fundamental change in the attitudes of our society is not based on financial grounds or causes and therefore it is not able to be solved by the direct or indirect use of money or by the refusal of any government or parliament to give aid. When the problem became obvious in the post war years the initial response by governmentsthis was accepted by society- was to provide assistance in the form of nursing homes. This produced a burgeoning of nursing homes built by voluntary and charitable organisations as well as by governments. Because of a shortage of this sort of accommodation the situation could not be coped with by the government and by voluntary and charitable organisations. This, together with the motive for profit, produced an expansion of commercial nursing homes. Some of them were built for the purpose and were well run, but I believe that too many were conducted in converted old buildings unsuited for the purpose. They were conducted to make a quick profit. They were, and I believe sometimes still are, a blot on our society. We now have one of the highest ratios of nursing homes per capita in the world but there is too little accommodation for aged people who wish to be independent in independent units. Certainly there is too little accommodation for the frail aged who need hostel type accommodation rather than full nursing type accommodation. The Social Welfare Commission in a publication entitled 'Care of the Aged', in relation to hostels when well planned and well run, states:  . . provide for the frail aged who are at physical or psychological risk, some degree of freedom, combined with accommodation and care which will help preserve that freedom, and keep them out of the continuous nursing situation. 
The Commission also pointed out that although this form of accommodation is not cheap- it certainly is not cheap- it is much less expensive than nursing home and hospital care. Honourable senators will realise that there are many people in acute, high cost hospital beds who would be better off in nursing homes. There are many people in nursing homes, also at too high a cost economically, emotionally and sociologically, who would be better off in hostels and sometimes in independent type accommodation. 
A bugbear in all systems of providing accommodation for the aged, in fact a bugbear in the whole of our welfare system, is that of deciding the criteria for need, in this case for financial, social and medical need. It is especially difficult in the case of hostels to decide which of the people who need some sort of institutional care beyond that able to be given in a home or in an independent unit are suitable for hostels and which are suitable for nursing homes. The Government has expressed the concern, which was shared by the Labor Party when in government, that the aged should not be in nursing homes and hostels unnecessarily. It is not easy to make the necessary assessments. 
I know an announcement has been made that it is intended to ensure that proper assessment is made of people who are housed in subsidised homes and hostels. Some details of these assessment procedures required in the future deserve the careful scrutiny of this Parliament and the public before they are applied because I think it is terribly important that such assessments be carried out in a way which maintains the dignity of the people involved and the feeling of selfesteem which is so important to the aged. The assessments should not be too clinical. They should not be so rigid as to rule out assessment based on experience by the people who are involved in doing the assessing. Despite the shortage of aged persons' accommodation the criteria should be sufficiently flexible, and perhaps flexible in various areas, to provide for the differing types of populations in those areas. 
I believe that the aged persons' hostel program has served a useful purpose. Until it runs out it will continue to be of some benefit. However, I believe that in the future hostels and other sorts of homes and nursing homes should come under a total scheme for care of the aged, using not only special facilities provided in retirement villages or aged persons' villages or whatever they may be called in the various States, but also facilities such as health centres and rehabilitation and recreational facilities that already exist in the community and are there to be used by the whole community, including the aged. The people who use these facilities should not arbitrarily be cut off from access to these facilities at the age of 65 or 70 years or at whatever age they suddenly become inmates or citizens of the various types of aged persons accommodation. I think that this concept of total care for the aged, not only nursing care, is mentioned in every report on care for the aged that has ever been written. It has tended to be an abstract sort of concept or dream thought about by people in the community, but I firmly believe that it is a feasible proposition and one that can be achieved if philosophical- if we like, ideological- blinkers do not inhibit the development of these schemes by those who are responsible for them. 
As the Social Welfare Commission stated in its report entitled  Care for the Aged,  it is inevitable that the financial responsibility for the capital construction, upkeep and staffing of these institutions in most cases will rest with the Government. The Commission concedes and I concede that voluntary organisations and local authorities should be encouraged to set up such institutions and to set up hostels, but they should be encouraged to do so only if there is proper expertise, proper staff and, above all, if they can demonstrate a local need for this facility. For too long the distribution of aged persons homes and hostels has depended not only on a need but also on the existence of an organisation which can, because of its previous experience or finances that it has already, apply for the Government subsidies which have been made available. I understand one of the worst areas in this regard is the northern area of Victoria. Too often frail aged persons have to be transported over very long distances because there are very few facilities to accommodate them satisfactorily in their own area. This arises where towns tend to be small and the established institutions which would be likely to set up appropriate facilities are not present. 
I believe that the overall assessment of need, particularly on an area basis, is a responsibility of government or of some assessing organisation in the social welfare field, outside the Government if necessary. The assessment should be done in a much more logical manner than at present and not in the present haphazard manner which depends upon the existence of certain organisations in certain areas. We must look very closely at the funding arrangements for these facilities and at other situations which have existed and been accepted in the past whereby public funds are given to groups which eventually move beyond public control and scrutiny. 
Only a very small minority of the people in the community can afford either private nursing type accommodation or private hostel type accommodation of an adequate standard with adequate supervision without considerable government subsidy. I believe that in the past government supervision has not been as great as it should have been in this area. Too often we are swayed by the lobby composed of some people who are all too willing to use the very real emotional feelings that can be raised when dealing with problems of accommodation for the aged and who have become expert at using the media and advertising in this field. These people will continue to press for the present system and to press for more and more subsidies for nursing home accommodation. I believe that governments of all persuasions should resist and not cater for this sort of pressure without careful assessment of where the money is going and how the money is being used. 
Planned development of hostels is important and is of the utmost importance to the establishment of a fully comprehensive scheme of total care for the aged. There is a very great danger that the present subsidy plans for aged persons accommodation tend to channel money to organisations that can extend their present facilities and that have the basic capital to establish new homes. Too often these organisations are the large established charities and voluntary organisations in established areas with regular sources of income because of their history and because of their relative popularity in those areas. As I said earlier, their distribution is not always appropriate to the proper distribution of the needy aged in the community. They do not always provide for the possibility of full community participation for the aged, even down to things like shopping and social visiting, and there has been a great tendency to isolate the aged from the mainstream of the community into villages or settlements away from the areas of origin of the people involved. 
I am concerned that the Government's policy of reducing the Commonwealth contribution from $4 to $1 to $2 to $1, although having the effect of giving a greater spread of funds, will cause disadvantage to those organisations caring for the aged in lower socio-economic areas, and in some smaller communities will cut the possibility of these organisations taking part in this and other schemes for the aged persons. 
As I said before the Aged Persons Hostels Act has supplied a need in the community. We supported it when it was introduced. We support its continuation but we believe that before another scheme such as this is introduced careful and comprehensive plans are needed to provide for domiciliary care, unit type accommodation, hostel type accommodation and nursing home accommodation in a proper balance and in a proper distribution. A lot of statistical information has been gathered in this area and a lot of the preliminary work has been done by the Social Welfare Commission and by the other people who have reported on aged persons' accommodation and care in the community. We believe a scheme can be produced which may differ very much from our present scheme but will probably be more satisfactory. We hope that the new committee set up by the Government to look at care for the aged will produce a scheme which is satisfactory for all. We would have some fear if the result were the same as the present changes to Medibank which emanated from the same sort of direction. We support the legislation, expressing our concern for the future time scale of provisions in the legislation, and urging the Government to consider, as we were considering, revamping the whole concept of care for the aged in the community and the development of a scheme of aged persons' accommodation more appropriate to the needs of the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the administrative costs of Medibank for 1975-76. 
What are the estimated administrative costs of Medibank for 1976-77. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to the cut in the Estimates of some $33m in expenditure on unemployment, sickness and special benefits in the next year despite the increased rates of benefits and to the Minister's reply that explanations of these estimates would be forthcoming for the Estimates Committees. I ask the Minister: As the estimates of expenditure for her department which have been released to honourable senators do not include those of the National Welfare Fund will such explanations be released in the future for the information of honourable senators? If so, will these explanations contain facts and figures of projected employment in this country on which the estimates are based? What part did her Department play in arriving at these estimates and, of necessity in the estimates of future employment, as the estimated expenditure seems to assume a 25 per cent to 30 per cent decrease in unemployment in the next 12 months. 
I wish to direct a short supplementary question to the Minister for Social Security. Can we assume from her answer that the Government's projected estimate of unemployment in the next year shows that there will be a decrease- that is, that total unemployment will decrease by 25 per cent to 30 per cent in the next 12 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many medical services were paid until the end of April 1976. 
What was the value of those benefits. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many lone fathers have (a) applied for special benefit; (b) have been granted special benefit; and (c) have had special benefit withdrawn, since 1 January 1976. 
) How many lone fathers now receive special benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the estimated number of medical services to be paid by Medibank for 1 975-76. 
What was the estimated value of benefits for those services. 
What were the predicted number of medical services to be paid by Medibank. 
What was the predicted value of benefits for those services. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has the Government made a decision to transfer all the pre-school functions and funding from the Office of Child Care to the Department of Education? Has the Minister sought or received advice from State consultative committees on child care and from concerned voluntary groups and other interested groups on the implications of separating pre-school services from other children's services funded by the Office of Child Care? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the Budget estimate value of hospital payments, that is the 50 per cent cost-sharing and $16 per day subsidy for 1975-76. 
Had all States been in the cost-sharing arrangements for the whole financial year, what would these costs have been. 
What is now the estimated payments to hospitals for the year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the estimated payments in respect of hospital costs for 1976-77. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Social Security, refers to an answer that she gave to  Senator Donald  Cameron on 24 August of this year to the effect that the Government intends that there will be provision to look after low income groups and especially disadvantaged groups with the idea of providing exemption from the Medibank levy for them. Will the Minister tell us whether the Government has decided on the guidelines as to who will be exempted from this levy and, if it has, will she make those guidelines public- or has this problem also been referred to the Income Security Review Committee? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I would like to make a few remarks about the statement made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and about the program which she announced. My remarks will firstly be aimed at clarifying some things which were not mentioned in the statement. Secondly, I would like to say things which should have been mentioned in the statement but which were not mentioned. In doing so I believe that I will restore some sort of balance to the statement to counteract the bias which is apparent. The Minister said that in the last 22 years some 62 530 elderly people have been provided with accommodation under the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Art and the Aged Persons Hostels Art. She also pointed out, correctly, that the 15 000 units of accommodation which will be made available in the next 3 years will be equal to about 25 per cent of that number of 62 530. What I think should be pointed out- it has been pointed out in reply to previous statements by the Minister and by others- is that in the 3-year period from 1973 to 1975 under the Austraiian Labor Party Government more than 16 000 units of accommodation, or almost 17 000 units, were built under this legislation. I think that that puts the claims made by the Minister a little more into perspective. 
The second matter on which I would like to comment is the Minister's statement that this is a milestone in the history of this legislation and that it is unprecedented. I agree that it is unprecedented that we have a 3-year plan of expenditure in this area. I do not believe that that is such a great advance for the people involved. As I have pointed out, in its 3 years of office the Labor Government funded and built in excess of 16 000 units under this legislation. It did so without a lot of fuss and without a lot of announcements about great trienniums. It did so without people having to provide bridging finance for future buildings. I would like the Minister to clarify at a later date or in a statement the situation of people who have to pay interest on this bridging finance. Is it to be included in the funds supplied by the Government or will it be an added cost and burden particularly on the charitable and religious organisations, which do not have a lot of funds, which build this sort of accommodation and which need all the funds they have? Another point will need clarification at some stage. In previous statements on this 3-year plan for funding from May up until now there has always been the proviso: 'Provided budgetary considerations allow, this funding will be available'. Those words do not appear in this statement. I am happy that they do not appear but I want clarification from the Minister or from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that this is a firm commitment, that the Government is pre-empting this amount of expenditure in the next 3 years to provide accommodation for the aged people of this country. 
Another point that comes to mind and which should not be forgotten when we are discussing aged people 's accommodation is that it is all very well to talk about a 3-year plan of funding and to say that over those 3 years that amount of money is the equivalent of what the Australian Labor Party spent or is a bit more or a bit less than what the Australian Labor Party spent. That does not get away from the fact- we deal in budgetary issues in this Parliament- that there has been a 36 per cent cut in funds available for accommodation in an area where there is a great shortage of accommodation and a great need for beds, hostels and self-contained units for aged people. I welcome the statement of the Minister that the Government considers it important to develop adequate domiciliary care programs and support services to assist these people. Many States, including my own State of Tasmania, have domiciliary programs of all sorts with the aim of keeping people in their homes when they desire to stay there and when this is possible. Even under the new federalism arrangement the States will need assistance to improve and maintain these programs. I hope that fairly soon the Government will announce what it intends to do. 
We know that the Government has appointed 2 further committees of inquiry to look into aged people's accommodation programs. There is a committee to look at the care of aged and infirm people and there is a committee to look at health, welfare, community developments and community based programs. The Opposition would like to know whether these committees will be like so many other government committeeswhether they will report their findings and the reasons for them to this Parliament and whether the Government will take up all the suggestions that the committees bring forward. I and many people on both sides of this Parlaiment are somewhat disturbed at the frequency with which we are told that something has been referred to a committee- either an income security review committee or some other committee. We are told that decisions arise out of the considerations of those committees- or of the Bland Committeeand we have no idea of what those committees recommended. We have no idea of what their findings were. Apparently their reports never see the light of day.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-This Senate debate on the Budget Papers has gone as most Senate debates have and as usual I, with  Senator Chaney  I always notice, am way down on the list of speakers. By the time we speak almost everything has been said. The speeches we have heard until now were the sort of speeches we usually hear. When I walked in here tonight and saw that  Senator Hall  was speaking I felt we were back to last year because we have not heard very much of him this year. We heard plenty from  Senator Hall  tonight and it was really a most dramatic moment. As well as the usual display of histrionics and other performances we witnessed tonight evidence of a conversion that was more dramatic than that of Saul of Tarsus on the road to Damascus. 
Last year we had  Senator Hall  berating those with whom he now sits and voting for appropriation Bills that this Government opposed last year. He was standing for democratic principles, which apparently he has now forgotten. He uttered his usual simplistic solutions and answers to the nation's problems. We heard initially that one of the great causes of inflation in this country is, of all things, the Dunstan Government. He claimed it is the most inflationary government in the country. I thought for a while that his obsession with  Mr Dunstan  was going to lead him into telling us how  Mr Dunstan  had caused all the problems of this country. We heard that the problems the shipbuilding industry in Whyalla are the fault of the Dunstan Government. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -Order! senator Grimes has the floor. 
I am trying to have the floor. Interestingly enough, we also found that  Senator Hall,  in contra-distinction to  Senator Carrick,  said that we were spending too much on the States and that the States needed less money. I think that is something that the people of his State will be very interested to hear. We then heard a great tirade, which I must admit I have heard before in this place, against the union movement of this country and how all the evils of industry are due to the unions, the militant unions, and the terrible people in the unions. Nothing is ever wrong with management in this country; nothing is ever wrong with those people who supported  Senator Hall's  electoral funds last year and this year. 
Before I speak any further on the Budget I would like to thank  Senator Sibraa  for giving  Senator Walters  such an interesting lecture on the facts and realities of politics in Europe. I am surprised that a well-read man like  Senator Lajovic  had not spoken too. I realise of course that there are some restraints, allegedly, on overseas travel at the moment but I believe that a quick trip around the Scandianavian countries, West Germany, Holland, Austria, Israel, England and New Zealand would reveal that there are plenty of countries which have had democratic socialist governments on and off, sometimes on for a long time, such as in the case of Sweden. The interesting thing about a lot of these countries, I should point out to  Senator Walters  with her interest in medicine, is that almost all of them- in fact I think all those I named- have lower infant mortality rates, have better longevity rates and better morbidity rates than has this fine country of ours. Swedes do not migrate around the world. I realise that in her family the car comes from Germany but I point out that the cars of many of her husband's colleagues come from Sweden. I thank  Senator Sibraa  for giving her that lesson. I hope she will go away, read something and them look at some of those places. 
We have been told that this Budget represents the Liberal philosophy. As the entire Liberal Party and its policy is dictated by one man, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and as in this country, in this place and at this time that word 'Liberal' must be spelt with a large L'- with the crazy political nomenclature we have in this country it should be spelt with a large C for Conservative- we have the most conservative of conservative parties in the Western world today. I think this Budget demonstrates the truth of that statement. It demonstrates that we will not find a more simplistic and more conservative approach than that which the LiberalNational Country Party has to this country's economic problems. It is no surprise that a mutual admiration society was set up in Washington between the Prime Minister and Miss Ayn Rand because their policies are very much the same. Obviously she is a very great inspiration to the Prime Minister. 
It seems to me that the philosophy espoused by this Prime Minister and this Government is a very simple one. We had a very good example of it in  Senator Hall's  speech. It is that all public expenditure is bad and all private expenditure is good. It is their own fault that the poor are poor and that the unemployed happen to be unemployed, and they deserve to be. 
I am not taking any liberties with anything the honourable senator said. This simplistic sort of approach means, as the Prime Minister said to the Council of Social Services in Victoria: 'We will look after the worthy poor'. Those words have not been heard in this country for almost a century. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said: 'We will look after the deserving unemployed who are unemployed because of Labor's policies but not the unemployed who are unemployed by the policies of the Liberal and National Country Parties. ' In the social security field it seems that the whole solution is that you give cash, and very little of it, and that solves everybody's problems. We have heard many people, particularly  Senator Sheil,  whose philosophy is now well up to the fore in the Government parties, say that the Government has no place in social reform, that the Government's duty is to maintain law and order and to look after foreign policy. 
The most repeated statement we have heard from the Prime Minister- we have heard it so often from him and he is certainly not speaking from experience- is that life is not meant to be easy. He then translates this into the statement that life is meant to be hard- hard for people who are underprivileged and cannot help themselves. I believe that this Budget has been framed in keeping with this philosophy. Having convinced themselves, particularly the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  that the whole cause of our trouble was the size of the Budget deficit- we had great speeches in this place on this subject last year- the Government has single-mindedly taken the axe to all Government expenditure in an effort to reduce this deficit- a deficit which, incidentally, expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product, was very little greater last year than that of West Germany or the United States of America, which are comparable countries in the Western world. In doing so the Government has indulged in over-kill. It has certainly ensured that unemployment will rise. It has certainly ensured that school leavers at the end of the year will not have any jobs to go to, nor will there be many apprenticeships available. It certainly has caused confusion and concern in the minds of people who are going to be affected by this Budget, people who through no fault of their own need Government assistance and who were assured over and over again before 13 December that they would not be disadvantaged by a 
Liberal-National Country Party Government. One needs to look only at the statement in the Prime Minister's policy speech that 'we will not reduce the level of assistance to Aboriginals'. I do not need to comment on that statement because there has been plenty of comment on it. There were no Aborigines at the dinner at the Lodge recently when the Prime Minister said that the best thing that could happen to Aborigines was that all of them be moved to Tasmania and towed to the Antarctic. I suggest that that statement reflects not only his attitude to Aborigines but his attitude to Tasmania. 

 - Senator Chaney knows it is true. People on that side know it is true. The promise to maintain assistance to the aged was followed by a cut of 36 per cent in provisions for accommodation for the aged and an abortive attempt early this year to abolish the funeral benefit for pensioners. One of the few protestors against that little exercise was  Senator Chaney. 
I believe that one of the worst aspects of the Budget is its disregard of the unemployed in this country and of the problem of unemployment. There is obviously an intention to continue what I consider were the disgraceful attacks on the unemployed which were started in mid- 1975 by members of the present Government. We are told in the Budget that the work force will increase by some 2 per cent. We are told that employment will increase by somewhere between 1 per cent and 2 per cent. The Government admits, therefore, that the unemployment situation will not improve. Every observer in this country predicts that it will get worse. Yet the estimate for unemployment, special and sickness benefits in this year's Budget Papers is $33m less than the figure for last year. The total drop in projected unemployment benefits is $55m. We know the Government will not pay unemployment benefits to school leavers during the Christmas period this year, despite the fact that many of those school leavers were back at school this year because they could not get jobs. 
We must remember that there will be increased benefit payments in November of this year and May of next year. The only way that such an estimate of expenditure on unemployment could be placed in the Budget is by deliberately understating the position, as we believe has happened with so many other items, to give the false impression of the size of the deficit or as a further extension of the sort of vendetta that has been carried on against the unemployed people in this country since 13 December last. Unemployment is at an extremely high level. The failure to release seasonally adjusted figures cannot conceal the fact that they are increasing. By some accident, Tasmanian politicians were given the seasonally adjusted figures. The unemployment rate, seasonally adjusted, has gone up to 5.9 per cent. Job vacancies are very low. The situation has been getting worse all year. Is this the time to indulge in a campaign of denigration, calling people dole bludgers, making help more difficult to obtain and playing on the prejudices of those unthinking people in the community who readily blame such unfortunate people for their problems? I believe this is a socially divisive thing to do. I believe it is completely without justice. I believe that Government members should be ashamed of the campaign that they have conducted all this time and are continuing to conduct. 
The Budget contains some measures which the Prime Minister and others, including speakers here, claim justifies it being called a budget of social reform. The first reform, I gather, is the announcement that pension increases will be indexed to the CPI in May and November of each year. I remind the Government of its promise to the pensioners. I remind it, as the pensioner organisations are reminding it at this time by letters, of what it really promised. The Government promised to provide automatic and immediate increases in pensions in line with the CPI. The Prime Minister said: 'There will be no need to wait 3 months for your increases, as with Labor'. He then proceeded to introduce legislation which meant that they will wait at least 4 months. What worries the pensioners and others even more is that having introduced this indexation the matter will rest there, that no notice will be taken of the relationship of the pension to such indexes as the average weekly earnings and that the level of about 25 per cent of average weekly earnings is a final one and one which the Government is not interested in increasing. Previous LiberalCountry Party governments let pensions drop to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. Therefore we can understand the concern of the pensioners. 
The second social reform which we have heard talked about in this place day after day is the increase in the handicapped children's allowance from $10 a week to $15 a week. We have seen Press articles in which the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security all claim that it was their idea and that it was something in which they had been interested all their political careers, they had always wanted to do something for the handicapped. The Prime Minister even had the hide to call it the greatest advance for the handicapped people in this country since Federation. We welcome this increase, but we ask: Where were those concerned people when the Liberal-Country Party was in government previously? We remind them that the handicapped children's allowance was introduced in December 1973 by a Labor government. While we do not argue with an increase from $10 a week to $15 a week, we think we have more to talk about as we increased it from nothing to $ 10 a week. When honourable senators opposite rely on that sort of comment and that sort of self praise to justify this Budget as a budget of social reform, one is amazed at their concept of social reform. 
The family allowance and the taxation indexation schemes which were introduced before the Budget are the reforms most talked about. Again we do not oppose these reforms. We point out, however, that the Government has used the family allowance changes to excuse cuts in other vital areas such as the supplementary benefits which go to the very poor people. There has been a failure to increase guardian allowances. The Prime Minister even had the gall to say that the new family allowance scheme would make up for the reduction in expenditure in Aboriginal Affairs. That was one of the most trite and incredible statements about this Budget. The difficulty is that the benefits which would have flowed from tax indexation and the family allowance changes have been counteracted by the introduction of the Medibank levy- an unnecessarily high Medibank levy. There is no need to incorporate in  Hansard  the Government's tables. They have been included in debate after debate in this chamber. Suffice to say, on the Government's figures the vast majority of wage earners- wage earners in this country with taxable incomes from $120 to $190 a week-will be worse ofl" under this levy, plus indexation plus the allowances. Unless they have more than 5 children they will be considerably worse off. If they want to take out private medical insurance they will be very much worse off. In other words, their disposable income will be less. 
This leads to the crux of the Government's strategy as put out by the Government. In the words of  Mr Lynch,  if consumption fails to grow there can be no recovery. We have heard  Mr Fraser, Senator Cotton  and others exhorting people to buy cars, to buy refrigerators, to stop saving. At the same time the Government has taken action in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to reduce real wages. It has cracked down on the unemployed. It has failed to increase benefits. It has fixed guidelines for the unemployed. It has cut down the disposable income of many people. It has cut down expenditure in many fields, including accommodation for the aged, homeless persons, Aborigines, hospitals, health- all sorts of capital works. That means a breakdown, particularly in the building and associated industries. Business has been urged to invest, to spend and to produce. In the eyes of the Government, business also has been very lax. Businessmen have received lectures from  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch, Senator Cotton  and some backbenchers, including  Mr Macphee  in a speech in the House last night. I suspect that on another occasion today another backbencher may have exhorted them in the same way. But neither the consumers nor the businessmen are responding to these pleas and exhortations because the Government has been too heavy handed. It has been too concerned with figures and too little concerned with people in the community. 
Shellshock never lasts that long. The Government's policy is one of fighting inflation by deepening and extending recession. An attempt is being made to force workers and unionists into submission, by increasing unemployment using the theory that if more people are unemployed they will be more meek and mild and will not stand up for their rights. There are very few people in industrial relations who believe that story this year. The business community sees that and will not respond. The building industry cannot respond. If the Government is fair dinkum about unemployment it should remember the election policies of  Mr Street.  They were very clear and specific. He promised a continuation of the Regional Employment Development scheme. He promised retraining schemes. He promised apprenticeship assistance. He promised special assistance to local areas with high unemployment. Despite  Senator Hall  's claims, no one on this side of the House is advocating a massive outflow of expenditure which would exacerbate inflation, but neither do we believe that there should be excessive cutbacks causing a recession. That is the sort of problem which we will encounter. The potential contraction caused in the economy by the Government's actions will, it seems, disturb all sections of the community. The Treasury documents themselves make no attempt to hide this fact and they predict a cutback in production growth this financial year. 
It is obvious that the investment allowance and other such mechanisms failed because industry was under-utilised. It had under-utilised plant. Funds to stimulate the building industry, especially in areas of great need, would do a lot more through the multitude of associated industries to provide selective stimulation without sending inflation over the top. The increase in unemployment due to the failure of industry to invest and the failure of consumers to spend is surely the greatest signal the Government could have so far that it should change its tack. Last year the Government claimed that, if elected, it would inspire business and consumer confidence because it claimed to stand for the same things for which business and the consumers stand. But no such confidence has resulted. A lack of confidence in government of this type depresses demand and expectations. 
If the Government would cease to be hampered by its philosophical prejudices or hangups and take selective action, not excessive action, to deal with the areas of need; to produce a plan aimed at reducing the number of young people unemployed and thus reduce the inevitable social problems that result from a large number of unemployed youths; to help with the housing shortage in specific areas, not just by providing $75,000 on an untried voucher scheme which will make no difference to the appalling situation in welfare housing in this country; to increase the funds available to local government in certain areas- none of these need to be excessive amounts of money- then perhaps it would seem to be doing something and perhaps it would inspire confidence. But because of its ideological bias, government spending is slashed. All government spending is bad, therefore we must cut government spending. But we hand out subsidiesdirect and hidden subsidies- to industries which make the most noise, to industries which have the greatest clout, to industries that do not necessarily employ the most people and do not necessarily produce the most wealth. 
How much has it received under your Government, senator? The result is a wait and see attitude by business. That is what we are seeing now. It has been waiting and seeing much longer than  Mr Fraser  predicted. He predicted that there would be a reduction in unemployment of 200 000 in a couple of months and that we would be back on the road to success in three or four months. The Government's policy will result in increased savings, because people will save for fear of unemployment in the future, no matter how unjustified the Government may think that is. It will produce cynicism in the unions and it will produce a resistance to reduction in their real wages. Surely this is a fair enough prescription for recession. 
Finally I would like to comment on one aspect of government since December 1975 which I think is disturbing and which I think is worth commenting on but which will obviously continue. In government we were criticised for setting up committees and inquiries into problems and for setting up commissions to look at problems which the community faces. But these commissions and committees were open. Their reports were public and they were discussed. Some were abused by the then Opposition, as the Priorities Review Staff report on housing was abused. But that is politics. Let us look at what we have had since December 1975. We have had the Medibank review committee which met in private, which produced no public report- and from the look of the results it produced no private report. We have no idea what it recommended. We have no idea whether the Government's actions have followed its recommendations. Consider the Bland inquiry. We have seen no report. Plenty of decisions have been made and announced as a result of the Bland inquiry. We have no idea what the evidence said. We have no idea how the commissioner came to his conclusions. We have no idea whether the Government has followed his conclusions. 
Every week in this place people ask questions about various social security matters and the reply is that the matter has been referred to the income security review committee. It is the greatest garbage tin used at question time in this place. That committee will not report. We will not know what decisions it came to. We will not have any results. The Hay Committee report on Aborigines is a different kettle of fish. We all got the report. The Press got the report. Members of the Opposition all got the report and I understand that most members of the Government got it. But it was not going to be released because its findings were not in keeping with the Government's prejudged views, and another committee of inquiry has been set up. The aged persons homes inquiry has been set up, largely comprising the same personnel as the Medibank review committee. It will meet and take evidence but I doubt whether we will see any result of that report and we will not know why. The same applies to the welfare health task force set up to find a job for a couple of displaced public servants. We have a further unspecified committee on Aboriginal housing set up to cover the same area as the Hay Committee covered. We have an unspecified inquiry into child care to see where it should be in the spectrum of government bodies. 
Will any member of this Parliament see any of these reports, know what they have reported or have any idea where we are going? Will any of us ever have the opportunity to know just what is happening and what the Government intends to do? This Government was elected with a policy. It said: 'We have a policy for aged people. We have a policy for pensioners. We have a policy for Aborigines. We know what we are going to do. ' All these matters have been shoved off to committees. No one knows what the committees are doing and no one will know what the committees will find. In this place mystical references are made to inquiries. We are told repeatedly that a matter has gone to an inquiry. It is not only Opposition members but also Government members who should start to look at this son of set up. They should start to look at the people on these inquiries and demand some information from the people who are advising the decision makers of the Government who, we are told, are the Prime Minister and three other senior Ministers. If the Government does not know where it is going we certainly will not know where it is going and what hope will the rest of the community have of knowing where it is going? I support  Senator Wriedt  's amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that since the Government has decided to tax unemployment, sickness and other benefits the Commissioner of Taxation has requested the Department of Social Security to deduct 35c in the dollar from each of these payments, for taxation purposes? Is it a fact that this is not done with age pensioners and others, who are given a statement of benefits paid so that their taxation can be paid at the end of the year? Will her department deduct the 35c in the dollar from these benefits available to people who are in difficulties? What action will be taken to counteract the claims of the Commissioner of Taxation in this regard? 
-I have a couple of questions on the general issues raised in the debate on the second reading of the Bill. Firstly, with regard to the bridging finance which obviously will be necessary for projects under the aged persons accommodation program generally, has the Government decided whether it will assist the various organisations to pay the interest on this bridging finance up to three or four years? Secondly, has the Government decided whether the report of the Sax Committee which is looking into aged persons accommodation will be made available to the Parliament? 
I am pressing the point a little but I think it is a very important point in view of this Bill and in view of the statement made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  the other day. It is also important bearing in mind the fact that this is not the sort of legislation that the Minister or I would have introduced, with hindsight. It still was introduced as a crash program and it still was introduced as a means of overcoming an acute shortage of this sort of accommodation. Bearing in mind the fact that any program which is introduced should apply to people in need- I think both sides of the chamber would agree with this- I see a very great problem if the Government does not at least keep the door open to a flexible approach to the possibility of providing bridging finance. 
It seems that there are 2 sorts of groups which build aged persons' hostels. They are what I would call big charities and the religious organisations about which the Minister spoke. These groups operate particularly in Sydney and Melbourne where charitable funds are freely available. Often those funds are made available by the conduct of large appeals each year. Many of them are traditional appeals held annually. 
These groups have financial backing that others do not have. There are other groups, particularly in the smaller capital cities and in the smaller towns- I think of some of the Methodist church groups in particular- which tend to provide accommodation for people in the low socioeconomic groups and a very high percentage of pensioners. Some of the big organisations charge an entry deposit for people to be admitted. I think the Government should give some indication that it will at least keep the door open to do something about bridging finance because the need to pay interest- high interest rates apply at the moment- will be, I believe, somewhat of a burden to some of the less affluent charitable organisations in our society. 
The second point I wish to raise- I do not think I raised it with the Minister in the first place- is that the Government's 3-year scheme of funding aged persons' homes and hostels preempts a fair amount of money in future budgetary considerations. Initially statements by, I think, the Minister- if not by the Minister certainly by other people- always have had the proviso that budgetary considerations allowing, this money would be available. Are we to understand that this amount of money that is being made available is now firm; that it is not open to change in later Budgets due to budgetary considerations or due to economic difficulties in the community; and that people who have been approved will have a cast iron guarantee that they will get their money when their name is indicated on the list that the Minister has released? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to the demonstration, leading to arrests, held in the Melbourne office of the Department of Social Security on Thursday night last. I understand that people were demonstrating against the refusal of her Department to pay special benefit in the 7-day waiting period for unemployment benefit to those in need. Were the people involved informed by a member of her Department that the special benefits in fact would be paid and would be available to those people? Has a decision since been made that it was not policy to pay special benefits in the 7-day waiting period? Who made this decision? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to an answer she gave me yesterday in which she said: 
The particular matter about which they were demonstrating related to a person who had voluntarily left his employment and was not entitled to unemployment benefit for a period of 6 weeks in accordance with the legislation. 
I ask the Minister: What legislation? If, as we believe, there is no legislation, is it not a fact that the 6-week period requirement is the result of a direction by the Minister to the Director-General not to take into account any circumstances in which an unemployed person may need a benefit in this 6-week period? Is it the Government's intention to introduce legislation to cover this detail? 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What estimates had the Government made in Budget forecasts for 1976-77 of: 
the number of services rendered; 
the value of benefits for these services; 
the number of services Medibank would have paid; and 
) the value of the services Medibank would have paid. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How much of the estimated rise in medical benefits costs for 1976-77, compared with 1975-76, is due to (a) an increase in the number of services rendered and (b) increased rates of medical benefits. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's Department made any estimates of the number and cost of accidents, excluding traffic accidents, in Australia to (a) earners outside work hours, and (b) nonearners. 
If these estimates are available, will the Minister provide them with a comment on the accuracy of the statistics. 
If the figures are not considered accurate, what steps are currently being taken to improve them. 
-The Senate is debating together the second readings of the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 and the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. These Bills are a further step by the present Government in the dismantling of Medibank which was set up by the previous Government and which the present Government in its election policy announcements before 13 December last promised to maintain. The name of Medibank may well remain but there will be a return- this is one stage in that return- to the concept of health insurance which we had before the election of the former Labor Government. Before dealing with the Bills I point out a very important difference between the approach of this Government and the approach of the previous Government in the management of the Medibank arrangements. 
For a long time the Labor Party proposed a universal health insurance scheme. The proposal was opposed implacably by members of the present Government, by the Australian Medical Association and some other medical organisations, and was violently opposed by the voluntary health funds. We were told that universal insurance was unnecessary. We were told of the disasters which would arise from the exploitation of Labor's scheme by patients. We were never told about any exploitation of any scheme by the medical profession. We were told of the inevitable deterioration of health care in this country. We were told of the destruction of the private hospitals which would follow the introduction of Medibank. Some senators opposite have obviously changed their minds but some have been utterly consistent in their views.  Senator Sheil,  for instance, has not changed his mind and remains implacably opposed to Medibank Mark I and Medibank Mark II. The former Labor Government produced a Green Paper for discussion. This was debated  ad infinitum.  The Government then produced a White Paper, a policy paper, which was vigorously debated throughout the country. There was a double dissolution. The Labor Party won it. It had consultations with professional groups and health funds and compromises were made. Despite opposition the legislation was passed. Medibank came into being, it was accepted by the community, it worked efficiently with administrative costs lower than predicted, and the utilisation rates were as predicted. 
The present Government, in its election campaign last November, said that it accepted that Medibank was a fact. It said that it would maintain Medibank and would not dismantle it. It acknowledged that Medibank had indeed become a part of our health scene and was accepted by the community. No sooner was the Government in office than the Medibank Review Committee was set up- a committee of 3 wise men. I am not denying that they may in fact have been 3 wise men but we have no idea what they decided, what they reported, if anything, or to whom they spoke. They did not conduct public hearings. They did not report to the Parliament. There has been no attempt by them or the Government to justify or even to report their decisions. There was no public discussion at all. This Committee was conceived in haste. The 
Labor Party believes that it was given instructions to come up with a scheme to get 50 per cent or more of the people out of Medibank. 
Suddenly, earlier this year, a new concept was announced and legislation was introduced into the Parliament to amend the present scheme drastically. Booklets were produced which quickly became obsolete once mistakes were discovered. Further booklets were produced and these also became obsolete because of later changes to pensioner benefits under the scheme. In more recent weeks Medibank offices and health fund offices have been flooded with confused people. Newspapers are running special supplements to try to explain to people how to cope with the new scheme. Talk-back programs on radio are flooded with phone calls from people trying to understand the new scheme and members of Parliament spend a great deal of their time trying to explain the ramifications of the new scheme to constituents. Such is the result of the desperate desire of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to transfer a figure from the Budget to the private section of the community. Such is the Government's haste to placate the private health funds which assisted it so much with finance and other help during the election campaign. 
Many of the clauses in the 3 Bills we are debating today contain amendments to legislation brought into this Parliament only a few months ago. Most of the clauses give witness to the hurried and confused conception of this scheme. 
-I will come to the example. For instance start from clause 1 of the first Bill, the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2), and read through to the end of it. Probably it is the most convenient Bill to start with. Despite  Senator Baume  's great desire for information I have no intention in the short time that I have of going through the Bill clause by clause but in the second reading speech by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  he will find that amendments were necessary to previous legislation because of changes made in the very few months since the new concept was accepted. 
There are some interesting concepts in this Bill. For instance, clause 13 relates to the care of people whose illness necessitates hospitalisation for more than 35 days. The Government is setting up what is called a re-insurance account or what the Minister referred to several times as a re-insurance pool for the hospital fees of these people so that they can remain in intermediate wards. This concept differs greatly from what we know of re-insurance pools in other forms of insurance in the community. Insurance companies contribute to a pool so that companies which get too many bad risks can be covered by money from the pool. However, in this case the funds are to contribute nothing. The re-insurance account is to be made up of contributors funds and $50m is to be contributed by the taxpayers of this country. The health insurance funds will get the kudos and they want it and need it because the main basis of their advertising and the main attraction that they think they have for the community is that they can provide intermediate cover. The taxpayers who stay in Medibank will subsidise that group, small as it may be, which gets into the situation of needing money from this re-insurance account. Instead of having a proper insurance procedure where premiums are set to cover all illnesses the Government is subsidising the funds to provide for what the insurance companies call the sink end- the unprofitable end of insurance- in order to make sure that the premiums for intermediate and private care do not get too high or unacceptably high. 
We believe that if people think they need private insurance, if they want it and want to go to private hospitals, they should be able to do so and should be able to insure themselves with funds but we also believe that this should be an economic business and should not require a great deal of subsidy from the government without any contributions from the funds as this clause will provide. We believe that if the Government wants to set up a re-insurance pool premiums should be set at reasonable levels. They should be set at such levels that all people will be covered and then the private funds, including Medibank Private, can conduct their own reinsurance pool as is done in any other business. 
Clause 20 of the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) also demonstrates the haste with which the original legislation was drawn. It demonstrates also some of the mistakes made by the Government in drawing up its new Medibank scheme. The Government has found that its guess at the cost of intermediate ward cover was about $50 less than it turned out to be. The funds found that they would have to charge a similar amount more. Those people who of their own choice like to take out intermediate cover would have found themselves paying higher premiums than they needed to pay and because of the Government's inaccuracy would have had trouble getting the predicted cover. The Government wishes to encourage people to join private health funds and we will have words to say later about whether that is desirable. The Government is again subsidising the private health funds. 
The Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2), which the Opposition does not oppose, attempts to cut out the racket in pathologists' tests. This racket has been the bugbear of health insurance costs in this country for many years. I emphasise that this is a racket conducted by doctorsdoctors who are attracted by the inflated fees for automated tests. 

 - Senator Baume will have plenty of time to speak later. I suggest,  Mr Deputy President,  that he curb his excitement. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Order!  Senator Grimes  has the floor. 
-Senator Baume well knows that pathology fees in this country were set on a relative basis some years ago because in those days pathology tests were difficult, tiresome, and took much more skill than they frequently do now. In recent years kit methods of doing pathology tests have grown up. At the same time automatic machines such as the autoanalyser have grown up and large number of tests can be done on very small amounts of blood. However the fees paid for those tests have remained relatively large. For the sake of  Senator Baume  I will agree that the vast majority of doctors in this country have not made a racket out of pathology tests and the referral of pathology tests. 
I have admitted it now and I have admitted it in previous debates as the honourable senator well knows.  Senator Baume  has to protect the vested interests that he thinks he protects in this place. Even he may grudgingly admit that there are a few unscrupulous characters who always attempted to make a racket of pathology tests and other medical tests in this country. They will attempt to circumvent this provision by doing tests on different days. They will try to do this as they have done in the past and in fact they would do it no matter what form of legislation we brought into this Parliament unless we remove the ridiculous fee for service provisions. Some people who are opposed to Medibank think that these should be removed from things like pathology tests. I believe the profession should bear a greater part of the burden of exposing these modern day vampires. We wish the Government well with this amendment. It certainly attempts to overcome a very great problem in health insurance in this country. 
However, the Opposition views with a less charitable eye the deceitful amendment to the State-Commonwealth hospital agreements which are also affected by this Bill. We consider the amendment deceitful because early in September the Commonwealth Government came to an agreement with the States on the heads on which the agreements would be made. Some days later the Commonwealth announced that it was adding to the agreements a clause which had the effect of throwing on to the States the burden of any additional unforeseen costs which might arise as a result of this legislation. The Opposition, in this Parliament and in the State parliaments- both Labor and Liberal State parliaments- believes that the original StateFederal hospital agreements were valid. One State Parliament passed unanimously the State hospital agreement. Members of both major parties, Labor and Liberal, and the Independents in the Upper House of that State, on the insistence of the Liberal Party, examined the agreement. They had it examined, looked at it, considered it valid and fair and passed it. We believe, as we have stated previously, that the allegation of the invalidity of the agreements was an act by this Government to get out of its responsibilities. We believe it was an act of the Attorney-General, not as the first law officer of this country; we believe it was a politically motivated act which does not have any legal basis. I might add that this is all we would expect. 
The new clause allows the Commonwealth, without agreement of the States, to refuse to accept any increase not previously discussed with the States. If something unforeseen happens the Commonwealth says: 'Too bad, it is unfortunate that there was an unforeseen wage rise or any unforeseen cost of this type', and the agreement to share 50 per cent of the net costs in hospitals is gone. There is nothing the States can do about it. The States are concerned about this addition to their previous agreement with the Federal Government. We share their concern. We would have shared concern about a couple of the other heads of agreement, but they came together with the Commonwealth Government and agreed. In the circumstances, if they are satisfied we would be satisfied. However, they did not agree with this addition. We do not believe this Parliament should agree with it. 
The Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 establishes Medibank Private. It gives the statutory corporation, Medibank, the right to take part in private health insurance in this country. When in government and when introducing Medibank we accepted the fact that some people wanted to take out intermediate and private hospital and medical insurance. We did not interfere. We said that the 2 forms of insurance should be separate. We accepted that people should have perfect freedom to be able to choose. Hence the voluntary private health funds survived very well on private hospital insurance. Private health insurance will now be available from a statutory body and we are beastly careless about this. I express my surprise that a party such as the Liberal Party, with the support of the Country Party, which was so violently opposed to the setting up of a statutory corporation to compete with the private insurance companies last year, should be willing to allow Medibank to compete with private funds. Perhaps there is a welcome change of attitude just a little in this regard. Perhaps it is a result of the experience of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in dealing with the voluntary health funds. We know that Prime Ministers and Ministers for Health since the days of Prime Minister Gorton have had a rough time with the voluntary health funds, have had a very bad time trying to negotiate with them and have suffered from the mischievous, corrupt and inaccurate advertising in which these groups have taken part against governments of both political persuasions. 
There is some hope for the conservatives on the opposite side, because yesterday  Senator Townley  roundly criticised the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health for taking out their private insurance with Medibank Private.  Senator Townley  said that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health, in taking out their private insurance with Medibank Private, were supporting a socialist organisation. We do not believe that Medibank Private is a very socialist organisation. We do not believe that the almost exact corollary of Medibank Private, the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation last year, was very much of a socialist organisation. It is nice to know that some people on the other side never change and that some of them occasionally are willing to criticise their leaders for not supporting those who supported them so financially and with such great manpower during the last election campaign. 
The Bills, apart from correcting the mistakes of the Government's previous hasty action, do nothing to encourage a rational health care system in this country. Perhaps they were not intended to improve health care in this country. They certainly do nothing to cut the costs of health care in this country. They may transfer payments from the government to the private sector. When we are talking about the 2 later Bills we will talk about this and the effect of the changes on the total cost of health care in this country. The Bills do nothing to encourage the development of rational health care, nor do they do anything to encourage even the discussion of new methods of health care, new approaches to the delivery of health care in this country. The Government has encouraged further the breakdown of such development by refusing to fund community health centre programs, thus destroying another avenue of health care in this country. 
Every country, including the United States, realises that one of the biggest problems in health services is unnecessary operations, unnecessary pathology and unnecessary prescribing. The previous Opposition, in its fight against the Medibank legislation, joined some elements in the medical profession and blamed such overusage on patients- blamed patients for excessive operations, excessive procedures and excessive prescribing. In an article in the  Australian  only 2 weeks ago, a member of the House of Representatives, a doctor new to the Parliament, had the gall to blame the high incidence of the iatrogenic diseases in this country on Medibank. It is not that many years ago that  Sir Theodore  Fox, the distinguished editor of  Lancet,  came to this country and looked at the system which we had. He blamed the fee for service system for the high operation rate, particularly in tonsillectomies, hysterectomies and appendectomies. The surgery rate in this country and in other countries seems to be in proportion to the fee for service system. It is high where there is fee for service and it is low where there is not. Each time the facts and figures of the surveys in America and Canada, including Vancouver, are brought to air in this country the medical profession rises - 

 - Senator Baume, who is a lobbyist for the Australian Medical Association, is rising as he always does in every debate and at every question time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  I have sat in this chair through a lot of robust debates. I always allow a fair amount of latitude when somebody is making an assertion but I allow somebody else to give it back with compound interest if he wants to. There is no substance in the point of order. 
Being a man of peace, I am happy to withdraw. I just make the remark which was made by the  President  of the United States: 'If you cannot stand the heat please get out of the kitchen'. 
Speaking to the point of order, I realise that  Senator Chaney  has to protect the chickens that he looks after on that side but if people on that side want to interject and are not willing to take the results of their interjections, I suggest that they are so oversensitive that they should not be here. In my opinion it is a frivolous point of order put forward in a frivolous manner. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I said earlier that when a person reflects on someone's parentage or nationality I will be as firm as anybody. It would have been very easy at the time of the first interjection in this debate to pull the Senate to order. I did not do it because I believe in a robust, even flowing debate. As I understand it,  Senator Grimes  made a passing reference to a Presidential utterance on the give and take of debate. As I interpret it, he did not reaffirm the original inference to which  Senator Baume  took offence. He did not pursue the point about which  Senator Baume  felt resentful. I can be very firm from now on, as can other Acting  Deputy  Presidents, but I think that  Senator Grimes  has indicated that, if there are no interjections, he will pursue a narrow course but he reserves the right to respond in robust fashion. You may proceed,  Senator. 
In the minute left to methere will be plenty of time in the Committee stage- I just want to say that these Bills encourage the expansion of the fee for service system, they discourage people from utilising the public health system, they dismantle Medibank as the public knows it and as the public has come to accept it, they pander to the desires of the voluntary health funds in this country to accumulate vast sums of money and to utilise that money in a manner which is not to the benefit of their contributors. The debate will continue in the Committee stages and I will leave my further detailed remarks until then. 
I would like to speak to the motion: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
The Australian Labor Party welcomes at last a statement from the Government on the progress of its considerations of the Toose report. Most of us are well aware that  Mr Justice  Toose took a long time to produce his report. In fact, he produced a report of some 800 pages, costing approximately $800,000, at the end of last year. I must express some surprise that the Government received submissions from ex-servicemen's organisations, including the Returned Services League, by May of this year and yet the only decision it has made about the recommendations in the Toose Report is to change the name of the Department of Repatriation. The Government's assertion that it will retain the independence of the Department of Repatriation is a bipartisan policy which, I understand, both parties have agreed to accept. 
I am a little concerned that the only other recommendation of  Mr Justice  Toose which is mentioned in the statement made by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack)  is the possibility of the use of the American Medical Association's  Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment  for the assessment of appropriate pension levels for each repatriation pensioner. I sat on the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which dealt with the proposed national compensation scheme. I hope that the Minister and his Department take into consideration the findings of that Committee on the use of this guide. The Committee certainly did not think that the guide was an appropriate method of assessing compensation in this country. The guide was never meant to be a method of assessing the levels of compensation. It was produced to help medical workers and paramedical workers in their assessment of injuries incurred in various industries in the United States. To my knowledge the guide had been used by only one very small county compensation group in America. Members of the Committee did not believe, and the evidence presented to us did not suggest, that this guide was a suitable method of assessing any levels of compensation. It was heavily weighted towards injuries that involved surgical treatment. It was most imprecise when dealing with medical conditions of the type which are very common in the repatriation area. 
My Party believes that as the ages of veterans are changing their needs are changing and when their needs change it may well be necessary for the Department to change and for its methods to change. We believe that consideration should be given to  Mr Justice  Toose 's report and other people's views on the whole repatriation system. We certainly did not propose and do not now propose to alter the independence of the Repatriation Department because we believe that veterans have special needs. But, by the same token, we believe that a wide group of views must be considered and there must be a wide acceptance of community views as well as the views of veterans' organisations on the repatriation system. I welcome the indication that the 
Government is considering the report. We hoped that several months after the final submission to the Government of the views of veterans' organisations more than this would have happened. We hope that the Government's statement that decisions will be announced as they are taken will not mean an inordinate delay in announcing changes which may occur. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What organisations had applications before the Department of Social Security for capital and recurrent grants as at 30 June 1976 under the Homeless Persons Assistance Program. 
What sums were involved in each application and how many homeless persons were involved. 
For how long had each application been pending before the Department. 
In which cases had the State Committees been asked to advise the Department. 
What explanation does the Minister have for the failure to spend the allocation of $2. 6m in the last financial year. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I wish to move an amendment to clause 10. Clause10, in part, states: 
Schedule 2 to the Principal Act is repealed and the following Schedule substituted: 
SCHEDULE 2 Section 30 
I thank the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  for the guarantee that he will contact his colleague. I merely comment that the deliberation in the Committee stage has almost reached the 3 minutes to midnight stage. I understand that time is a famous time used by various members of the Senate. We have no guarantee from the Minister. We have staff bulletins from Government departments stating that certain things will happen if people wish to change funds. We have no legislative guarantee that they will not be disadvantaged. We cannot get even a guarantee that the Minister for Health will use his regulatory powers. My comment is that this is an extraordinary situation. We have already had a hell of a lot of changes to this legislation. We have no guarantee that people cannot preserve their rights. I thank the Minister, but I think it is an extraordinary circumstance. 
-I am pleased that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  supports the Opposition's position,  Senator Harradine  's position and, I am sure, the position of everyone on the other side of the chamber. I assume that the Minister is saying that he will support in every way the recommendation that the Minister use his regulatory powers to ensure that the health funds do not abuse the situation. 
-I ask the Minister for Science to recall an undertaking he gave to  Senator Knight  in the Senate on 23 March 1976 that he would take up with his State colleagues the problem of European carp affecting filtration systems in certain areas of Australia. Can the Minister assure the Senate that he has done this with all State Ministers and, in particular, with the Tasmanian Minister? 
-The Opposition opposes clause 13 of this Bill which sets up the reinsurance account in the hospital benefit funds. We oppose this clause because what the Bill refers to as a reinsurance account is referred to by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and today by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  repeatedly as a reinsurance pool. The Opposition believes that it is not a reinsurance pool as the term is commonly known in the insurance industry and it is quite wrong to call it such. 
The Opposition has never made any bones about the fact that it believes that the provision of standard medical care in public hospitals and paying 85 per cent of the medical fees in a community is a legitimate area of public expenditure. It also believes that those who want to take out further insurance either at the intermediate or private level should be able to do so. They certainly should not be prevented from doing so but they should pay for such insurance at the proper rates. The aim of the series of Bills now before the Senate- the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 and the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976- and the Bills still to come before the Senate which are the Health Insurance Levy Assessment BUI (No. 2) 1976 and the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2) 1 976, is to encourage the development of private health care and voluntary health funds in this country. The basic aim of the Bills is obviously not to cut the total cost of health care. 
We believe that the $50m reinsurance pool, as the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security insist on calling it, is merely a $50m subsidy to the private health funds. The former Labor Government was accused of trying to hide the cost of health care by submerging it in Consolidated Revenue by taking it out of the taxation funds. The Opposition now accuses the Government of trying to hide the cost of intermediate health care in the case of those who are chronically ill and who wish to go into intermediate wards by burying it in a reinsurance pool which is made up from Consolidated Revenue. 
-I say to  Senator Walters  who loves to interject- and we know whom she represents in this place- that she will have plenty of time to speak. 

 -Mr Chairman, I am left speechless by the incredible statement of  Senator Walters.  Well may  Senator Baume  sit with his head in his hands.  Senator Walters  completely misinterpreted my previous statement. She converted my statement about taxpayers into one about levy payers. Then she went on with the nonsense that  Mr Fraser  came out with about the relative percentages of people on different incomes who pay for their health care. It demonstrates to me what we have suspected all along.  Senator Walters  has not a clue on what she is talking about 

 Senator Baume brought up a very important point. He brought up the  Catch 22  situation about which we were talking and about which he knows. He knows and admits that we have an inadequate number of public hospital beds in this country. He knows and admits that we should have more, that there should be facilities to look after these people and that this country is sufficiently affluent to provide basic medical care for all its people, including its chronically ill. It cannot do so because successive governments have refused to build more public bed accommodation when and where it is needed. The governments of Victoria have been particularly remiss in this area. That is the first point which comes into the situation. We then have the situation in which the taxpayer in this country subsidises private health insurance. People in Victoria, not the chronically ill but the very low income earners who would be happy to go into a public bed, are forced to take out voluntary insurance to get any sort of bed. When they get sick they must go into a private ward. Then the Government says: Look, the people do not want any more public beds. We will not provide them'. We get an extraordinary  Catch 22  situation in which, by government action, people are forced into private wards when they would prefer to go into public wards. Because they are forced to do so by Federal Government action, the State Government says: 'We do not want any more public beds. In fact, we have fewer, than we had previously'. 
We are concerned about the chronically ill in this country. We are concerned about the facilities for the care of them. We believe that they can be cared for best and most adequately in proper public wards which should be built to cope for them, but those wards will not be built under this sort of set-up. We will have more and more of the hot bed hospitals such as the Baulkham Hills hospital. It was built for profit. The building has a sign outside which says 'Hospital '. To everyone in this community that means a place where a person will be cared for if he is sick. Yet if someone is mowed down by a car, has an accident in his home, is poisoned or is desperately ill, such hospitals will not take those persons because the hospitals want hot patients- patients who get into a bed and get out of it quickly. Therefore they are profitable. The more of those profitmaking hospitals which we have, the more difficulty we will have in getting public hospitals, public beds and teaching hospitals.  Senator Baume  knows that as well as anybody else does. 
This is not a reinsurance pool. It is a $S0m donation to the private health funds so that they can advertise that they will cover people for all their illnesses.  Senator Walters  should know that, but I suspect that she does not. We are not opposing this clause because we are against the chronically ill being treated properly. We are not opposing this clause because we do not believe that some arrangement should be made to treat the chronically ill properly. We are opposing this clause because we think the whole concept is a fraud. We are opposed to government promotion of private health care which is more expensive and more inefficient than any other form of health care in this country. 
I rather gently enter the debate again in the Committee stage but this time just to point out that what we are opposed to is the additional clause because it was said that the Heads of Agreement were part of the negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States. Our attention to this clause was drawn by 3 States. They told us that was not in the agreement. They showed us the telex and the message sent 3 days later. It is utterly wrong for the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to say that all these Heads of Agreement were agreed to by the States. I agree with everything that  Mr Hayden  said. I agree that open-ended financial agreements between the Commonwealth and State governments are wrong, are bad and should be avoided. The point that we made about the previous CommonwealthState hospital agreements was that the Commonwealth law officers said they were valid. Also, every State law officer and every State Government asserted that they were valid before and after the present Federal AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  quite conveniently one night at about midnight decided they were invalid just as the Government was bringing in its new Medibank arrangements. Pardon me, Minister, but we think that is suspicious. We think it is rather strange. The Minister's argument that the States can be reassured by the Prime Minister's saying 'We will share the net acceptable costs with the States 50-50' carries about as much weight with us as the Prime Minister 's statement that he will not interfere with Medibank, that he will not cut spending on Aboriginal affairs and all the other statements he made before 13 December last. Arguments like that cut no ice with us. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Grimes's amendment)  be left out. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have 7 amendments which I seek leave to move in globo. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-The portions of the clauses to which my amendments relate read as follows: 
Clause 3. 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: 
In this Act- 
a reference to the general functions of the Commission is a reference to the functions of the Commission other than the functions conferred on the Commission by Part IIa; 
a reference to the medibank private functions of the Commission is a reference to the functions conferred on the Commission by Part IIa; 
a reference to medibank private expenditure of the Commission is a reference to- 
expenditure of the Commission wholly and exclusively related to the medibank private functions of the Commission; and 
expenditure of the Commission that is, under sub-section 8d(3), to be treated as wholly and exclusively related to the medibank private functions of the Commission. '. 
Clause 7. 
Part  IIa  of the Principal Act is repealed and the following Part substituted: 
PART IIa- MEDIBANK PRIVATE 8a. (1) The functions of the Commission include the functions of conducting a medical benefits fund or a hospital benefits fund, or both, in respect of a State or of the Northern Territory, in accordance with rules determined by the Commission. 8d. ( 1) The Commission shall determine, and, whenever appropriate, re-determine, with the approval of the Minister, principles in accordance with which there may be ascertained, in respect of expenditure of the Commission related to the performance of both its general functions and its medibank private functions, the amount of that expenditure that is to be treated, for the purpose of this Act, as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its general functions and the amount of that expenditure that is to be treated, for the purposes of this Act, as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its medibank private functions. 
The Commission shall, in respect of expenditure of the Commission related to the performance of both its general functions and its medibank private functions: 
ascertain, in accordance with the principles applicable under sub-section (1), the amount of that expenditure that is to be treated as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its general functions and treat the amount so ascertained as expenditure of that kind for the purposes of this Act; and 
ascertain, in accordance with the principles applicable under sub-section (1), the amount of that expenditure that is to be treated as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its medibank private functions and treat the amount so ascertained as expenditure of that kind for the purposes of this Act.  8e.  (  1 ) The Commission shall, in respect of each financial year, determine the amount by whichthe expenditure of the Commission in respect of that financial year in the performance of its medibank private functions would, if it were not an authority of the Commonwealth and section 39 had not been enacted, have exceeded the expenditure of the Commission, in respect of that year, in the performance of those functions. 
The Commission, in determining an amount under sub-section (1) in respect of a financial year, shall have regard to the extent to which its expenditure is to be treated, by virtue of section 8d, as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its medibank private functions. 
The Minister may pay to a State, an authority of a State or a local governing body in a State an amount equal to such part of the amount determined by the Commission under sub-section ( 1 ) in respect of a financial year as appears to him to represent the amount of taxes, rates or other charges that would have been payable by the Commission to the State, authority or body in that financial year in connexion with the performance of its medibank private functions if it were not an authority of the Commonwealth and section 39 had not been enacted. 
Clause 8. 
Section 34 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following sections are substituted: 34a.  (  1 ) In the performance of its medibank private functions, the Commission shall pursue, so far as practicable, a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all the expenditure of the Commission related to those functions that is properly chargeable to revenue. 
Clause 9. 
Section 35 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 
2 ) The Commission shall open and maintain with a bank or banks approved by the Treasurer for the purposes of this sub-section an account or accounts for the purposes of the performance of its medibank private functions. 
The Commission shall pay into an account or accounts maintained by it under sub-section (2) all moneys paid to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its medibank private functions and, subject to sub-section (5), shall not withdraw from such an account any moneys other than amounts required to be expended in connexion with those functions. 
Where moneys are required for expenditure by the Commission in connexion with the performance of both its general functions and its medibank private functions- 
the Commission may withdraw those moneys from an account maintained by it under sub-section ( 1 ), but, if it does so, shall, as soon as practicable, withdraw from an account maintained by it under subsection (2) an amount equal to the amount of that expenditure that is to be treated, for the purposes of thus Act, as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its medibank private functions and pay that amount into an account maintained by it under sub-section ( 1 ); or 
the Commission may withdraw those moneys from an account maintained by it under sub-section (2), but, if it does so, shall, as soon as practicable, withdraw from an account maintained by it under subsection ( 1 ) an amount equal to the amount of that expenditure that is to be treated, for the purposes of this Act, as expenditure wholly and exclusively related to the performance of its general functions and pay that amount into an account maintained by it under sub-section (2). '. 
Clause 10. 
Section 36 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following sections are substituted: "(2) The Commission may, with the approval of the Treasurer, borrow moneys that are from time to time necessary for the performance of the medibank private functions of the Commission. 
Moneys borrowed by the Commission shall be applied only in connexion with the performance of the medibank private functions of the Commission. 
Where moneys of the Commission standing to the credit of a medical benefits fund or a hospital benefits fund conducted by the Commission in the performance of its medibank private functions are not immediately required for the performance of those functions, the moneys may, subject to sub-section (7), be invested by the Commission in such manner as the Commission deems fit. 
Clause 12. 
Section 40 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 40.(1) The Commission shall cause to be kept proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs of the Commission related to the general functions of the Commission and shall do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of its moneys by way of general expenditure of the Commission are correctly made and properly authorized. 
The Commission shall cause to be kept proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs of the Commission related to the medibank private functions of the Commission in accordance with the accounting principles generally applied in commercial practice and shall do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of its moneys by way of medibank private expenditure of the Commission are correctly made and properly authorized. 
The Commission shall do all things necessary to ensure that adequate control is maintained over the assets of, or in the custody of, the Commission and over the incurring of liabilities by the Commission. '. 
I move: 
In clause 3, leave out 'medibank private ' (wherever occurring), insert 'supplementary'. 
In clause 7, leave out the heading 'PART IIAMEDIBANK PRIVATE', insert 'PART IIA- MEDIBANK BENEFITS AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS FUND'. 
In clause 7, leave out 'medibank private ' (wherever occurring), insert 'supplementary'. 
In clause 8, leave out 'medibank private', insert supplementary'. 
In clause 9, leave out ' medibank private ' (wherever occurring), insert 'supplementary '. 
In clause 10, leave out 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), insert 'supplementary '. 
In clause 12, leave out 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), insert 'supplementary ' . 
In a spirit of reconciliation I inform honourable senators and anyone else who is present that we will not divide the Committee on this issue. The amendments are essentially to change the name Medibank Private' to 'Medibank Supplementary'. We realise that this is purely a gesture. We realise also that there is no hope of the amendments being passed by the Committee, just as there was no hope of their being passed by the House of Representatives. Throughout the second reading debate and during the Committee stage of the Health Insurance Bills we expressed our concern that the whole aim of the Government's exercise has been to promote private health insurance to the detriment of public health care. We believe that by moving these amendments we are expressing our objection. We believe that it is more appropriate that people have standard medical insurance through Medibank and, if they want private medical care and private medical insurance, insure separately, unsubsidised by the taxpayer, so that they know exactly what that insurance is costing them and the community. Therefore we believe that it is better that the scheme be called 'supplementary insurance'. 
We believe also that the term ' Medibank ' used in respect of the Health Insurance Commission as it will be amended by the Government and in the words 'Medibank Private', is a misnomer, a plagiarism and a corruption of the term we had before. We believe that it would be better if Medibank Private or the Private Health Insurance Commission were completely separarate and had a separate name. As I have said, we make our gesture of moving our 7 amendments to this Bill. 
-I probably have said this before: In the 2!4 years that I have been in this Parliament I seem to have spent much of my time debating legislation relating to health insurance and Medibank. The 2 Bills now under consideration have been presented very late in the piece, as  Senator Harradine  pointed out; indeed, at the deathknock, just before their provisions are to come into effect. I believe that this sort of thing will happen again and again. In June we debated at length the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill (No. 1) and its associated Bill. We were told by members of the Government that those Bills represented the new Medibank; that this was the new style of health insurance which would solve all sorts of problems, not only in respect of health insurance but also in respect of inflation, disposable income and just about everything else that was going. We predicted at the time that there would have to be amendments to that legislation. We predicted at the time that there would have to be changes. We did not realise what the changes would be. We did not realise that the Government, which then was so opposed to a ceiling, would decide that it was time to introduce a ceiling. We did not realise that the Government, which then was so opposed to Medibank Private set up the way it is now, would come along here and introduce the changes that have been introduced. We did not believe that members of the Government Parties would be in the difficult situation in which they have been, of vigorously defending the Government's proposals on Medibank for 5 months but having to change the basis of their arguments every 2 months or at times every 2 weeks. 
The most spectacular thing that the Health Insurance Levy Assessment (No. 2) Bill doesthis will affect most people in this country- is to make the final provisions for the introduction of the levy. The levy has had a chequered career in the history of health insurance in this country. When Labor was in office and introduced the original national health insurance scheme in the form of Medibank we were going to introduce a levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income which we believed would give people some indication of what they were paying for health care. Because of the predictions that were made about a national health insurance system we believed it would give us a better chance to get the appropriate legislation through the Parliament. 
For the benefit of those who have made such predictions so often in this chamber and some who have even made them during this debate, I repeat the predictions that were made about what would happen if we introduced a national health insurance scheme. The first was that people would flood to doctors and hospitals, apparently because the entire Australian community were hypochondriacs who needed some pecuniary barrier to stop them flooding the medical services. I repeat: This just did not happen. Secondly, we were told that the universal health insurance scheme would lead to a breakdown in doctor-patient relationships. We never heard an exact explanation of how this would happen. One used to suspect that doctors were like gypsies and would only be able to provide a decent service if their hands were crossed with silver. We were told that health costs would become catastrophic. This was always a false and incorrect argument because health costs are not just the costs incurred in paying the general practitioner or the hospital. They are not just the costs of the pills one buys at the chemist shop. They include the administrative costs involved in running the hospitals and the various voluntary health insurance agencies, the various costs of tests associated with medicine, and paramedical costs. A vast gamut of costs is involved. One of the big costs is always the administrative cost. 
One of the beauties of the scheme introduced by Labor was its administrative simplicity and its simplicity for the citizens who needed health insurance. We presented a scheme which involved a levy. No matter how painful it is to honourable senators opposite, I must remind them that they opposed the levy and were successful in this chamber in having the levy thrown out. I remind them also that 2 senators who are still members of the Senate told members of the Senate then that if they ever wanted to do anything about Medibank they should not oppose the levy. One of them was  Senator Steele  Hall, then a Liberal Movement senator, and I was the other. I believe that it was during that debate also that  Senator Baume  made the gaff that the doctors would co-operate with anyone except the Australian Labor Party. So the then Opposition, in its blind attack on anything that the Federal 
Government of the day put up, opposed the introduction of the levy. 
I was one who at that stage would have preferred a levy because I, like some others, felt and still feel that in some instances people are probably better off when they pay their taxes if they can have some concept of what those taxes are being spent on. I realise that this is difficult, but some European countries have separate items of tax for separate and specific purposes. I, like anyone else, realise that the 1.35 per cent levy would not have paid for all the voluntary health insurance and that it really would not have demonstrated very well to people what they were paying for. However, I felt that there should be some concept of what the people were paying for. But when the then Opposition threw out the legislation to introduce a levy we accepted the fact that we would have to fund Medibank- the national health insurance scheme- from Consolidated Revenue. There was nothing wrong with that. In fact, it was fairer than the levy we proposed and is certainly fairer than the levy the present Government proposes. As we have said repeatedly, we believe the provision of an adequate standard of public health care to all citizens is a reasonable issue for government to be involved in. 
We have a progressive tax system which more or less involves the payment of tax based on the ability to pay. We all know there are difficulties with this system, that people can get around the system and that the system needs changing; but it is the best system we could have and it is about the best system on which to base any expenditure on social security benefits. When voluntary health insurance was paid out of Consolidated Revenue, people were contributing roughly on the basis of" their ability to pay. In fact, the system worked very well. The administrative costs of Medibank were as predicted. The utilisation of Medibank in the first year was as predicted, something that I think was nearly a miracle. In fact, the administrative costs were very much less than predicted. The people who ran our national health insurance scheme- our Medibank- ran it very efficiently and were congratulated by Ministers from both the present Government and the previous Government on their ability, conscientiousness and effectiveness. 
The people accepted Medibank. They accepted the simple administrative setup whereby they were covered by Medibank for standard medical and hospital care and if they wanted to take out private insurance they could make that choice and take out that insurance with one of the private insurance funds. I am sure that honourable senators from both sides of this chamber have been asked over and over again since 20 May: 'Why on earth change it?' The answer we have received from every  speaker  from the Government side in this place over the last 2 days is: 'We did it to cut costs'. No one, including the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  can explain how the changes will cut costs. No honourable senator has attempted to explain how Medibank Mark II, Mark III, Mark IV, Mark V or whatever- we have lost count of the number- will cut the cost of health care. Nobody can explain how a simple administrative system which was funded out of Consolidated Revenue and gave people a choice of just Medibank or Medibank plus private or intermediate hospital cover would not be less expensive than the proposed system whereby people have to make numerous choices, paymasters have to know from whom to take the levy and from whom not to take it, the Taxation Office has to know who is paying the levy and who is not, and the Health Insurance Commission has to know who is paying the levy and who is not. Under this scheme people will join private funds, have their operations and get out of hospital and the health funds will have to catch up with those who opt in and opt out of schemes. 
We think that this is a very strange way to go about providing a national health scheme. We would have thought that if they wanted to abolish Medibank they could have gone about it in a much more efficient and easier way, that they could have chucked the whole thing out. But they were stuck with the promise of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who said: 'We will retain Medibank; Medibank has become part of the system'. Plenty of people in both the Liberal Party and the National Country Party oppose what the Prime Minister said. 
They were not honest,  Senator Brown;  they are suddenly honest now. The honourable member for Griffith in the other place,  Mr Donald  Cameron, said: 'I always opposed Medibank. I still oppose it. As far as I am concerned, the whole thing can be thrown out. I do not want anything to do with it, and never did.' He was not saying that between 1 1 November and 13 December last.  Senator Shiel  has always said that.  Senator Sheil  has said it since the day he came into the Senate. He does not even believe in voluntary health insurance. He certainly does not agree with peer review in the medical profession. He does not agree with surgical audits in hospitals. In fact, he does not agree with taxation. He has told us that he is just a Workers Party man who believes that the only function of the Federal Government is foreign affairs and the maintenance of law and orderbut his idea of law and order. He ran for cover before the last election so that he would not be asked his views on this aspect. 

 Senator Townley said that Medibank Private, the Government's own proposal, is a socialist measure and that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  ought to be ashamed of themselves for joining Medibank Private because it is a socialist measure. Poor  Senator Townley  waits for hours at Melbourne airport because Ansett Airlines of Australia has no flight available for 4 hours although 2 TransAustralia Airlines flights leave for his destination before the next Ansett flight. He does so because he will not travel on a socialist airline. Behaviour of that type demonstrates that he wears ideological blinkers; it also demonstrates an ideological blindness. 
The result of the Government's changes, as I have said, is that everybody in the community is confused. Not the least among those confused are the editorials of most newspapers which have invented names such as 'Medimess' and Medimuddle ' to describe the new scheme.  Senator Townley  told us that the reason for the confusion in the community is the evil Opposition confusing everyone with false propaganda. But there has been great confusion. Let me clear up one point of confusion which I am sure will arise in this debate. I might as well deal with it now because I am the first  speaker  on the resumption of this debate. 
When the Government's legislation was debated in May and June of this year, the Opposition opposed the levy. The reason that we stated for opposing the levy was that we found it unnecessary. We did not see the necessity for a change in a system that had worked well and that was funded fairly in the community. Having said that a levy was unnecessary, we asserted that if a levy was imposed there was no necessity for it to be at a level of 2.5 per cent. We explained then that when in government we had tried to introduce a levy. We had tried hard and we had failed. We had been happy with the result of the failure. Therefore, we saw no reason at all to seek again to introduce a levy. We saw no reason for a change in a good system. 
We were attacked for being inconsistent by the Government which did not bear in mind its inconsistency for, when in Opposition, opposing the levy we had previously proposed. When the Government's legislation was introduced in 
May-June of this year and after it had been passed by both Houses, we suddenly found that those things that we said were wrong with the legislation, as well as the confusion that we suggested would arise with its passage and the sorts of difficulties which we claimed would result, were proved to be true. The Government started to amend its scheme. We have had Medibank II, Medibank III and Medibank IV. 
A great public controversy arose. The Australian Council of Trade Unions, led by its  President, Mr Hawke,  suggested a 1.6 per cent levy. Some of the newspapers suggested a 1.3 per cent levy; others suggested no levy at all. The Australian Labor Party consistently opposed a levy. That confusion in the minds of newspapers, trade unionists, businessmen and all manner of people in the community was a result of the Government's haste to dismantle Medibank and to move a few million dollars from its Budget to the private sector. 
Part of the Government's haste resulted from its desire to look after that part of the community that it felt supported it the best. The Melbourne  Age  of 29 July 1976 probably summed up the real motives behind the Government's action better than any other newspaper when it said: 
The Government has given private doctors and private hospitals- as distinct from salaried or sessionary paid doctors in public hospitals- a guaranteed market of the more affluent half of the population. 
I am surprised that the  Age  was not attacked because the medical profession must not be criticised. I have been told by members of the Government: 'You must not criticise the medical profession'. A news item at lunchtime today referred to doctor bashing. The only doctor bashing that has gone on in this debate in the last 2 days has been, I believe, carried out by me,  Senator Georges  and perhaps a couple of other Opposition senators who have pointed out that any over-utilisation of our health system relating to operations, excessive prescribing or excessive pathology tests is a result of the actions of doctors who control those services. We must point out that the majority of doctors do not do these things. But some do and they cost the taxpayers of this country a lot of money. They cost the Government a lot of money. They tend to muck up the system. 
I am making this point. But we have been criticised for doctor bashing. Of course it is perfectly all right for members of the Government one after the other, day after day, to get up here and kick every trade unionist in this country. It was perfectly all right for a Minister yesterday to rise and to slander and slam a distinguished historian of this country. It is perfectly all right for that sort of thing to go on- but we must not criticise the doctors! I repeat that those of us who have criticised doctors have criticised them in what we believe to be a constructive manner. We have pointed out that there is too much of a tendency in this country for the medical profession, of which I am a member and to which I am proud to belong, to blame every fault on the patient.  Senator Walters  may laugh.  Senator Walters  is a great defender of the medical profession. 
-So she should be. I do not indulge in criticism in the Senate of the Mercedes that  Senator Walters  's husband drives or any of the activities which go on around the place. The medical profession must accept criticism when criticism is due. As I said yesterday, the medical profession, despite what  Senator Sheil  has said, must take a greater responsibility for disciplining its own members. 
The Melbourne  Age,  a number of other newspapers, the Opposition and other people who have looked at the situation believe that the prime motive of the Government in introducing a levy and making the changes that it has made to the Medibank scheme, many of which we believe to be unnecessary, is to cause many people- 50 per cent, 60 per cent, or even 70 per cent, I think  Senator Walters  believes it will be- out of the public health insurance scheme. What will be the result if the Government achieves its desire? As I have pointed out, first of all it will create confusion in the minds of the Australian people. It has already done that. Secondly, Medibank will become an administratively difficult scheme to handle by adding administrative processes all over the place. The result will be that the Medibank computers and the Medibank administrative set-up under the Health Insurance Commission will be underutilised. As a result of the Government's action, the number of people who will pay more for their health insurance will increase. But probably the worst result of all flowing from the Government's action- and I base my claim on the Government's figures produced after 20 May and the figures produced as a result of combining the effects of this action on tax indexation, the family allowance scheme and adding the Medibank levy- will be that the vast majority of wage earners who earn from $110 a week to $ 1 90 a week in this country will be out of pocket. 
The Government will cause them to lose anything from $1.50 to $3 a week from their pay packets. It has misled because it has told them with one voice that they will gain by tax indexation but with another voice it has said that they will gain from the new family allowance scheme. But the Government is not telling them and did not tell them that the combined effect of the loss of the children 's rebate, which we accept along with the family allowances scheme, plus the Medibank levy in fact will put them out of pocket. They will be out of pocket by only a small amount each week but it will be a fair amount in a year. This is happening at a time when the Government is telling us all to spend, spend, spend. 
The Medibank levy is a tax. It does represent an increase in taxation. To deny, as I have heard denied in this debate, that the levy is anything other than an increase in taxation is utter nonsense. This comes from a government which promised to cut taxation. This comes, as  Senator Harradine  pointed out earlier, from a government which has said: 'Shortly we will reduce taxes'. By how much is the Government going to reduce taxes? Is it going to reduce taxes sufficiently to make up for the increase in taxes which is the result of the Medibank levy. 
The imposition of this tax is causing great confusion. That confusion continues despite the efforts of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to abate it and despite his efforts to explain that there is no such confusion. The first confusion that arose certainly escaped me. I know it escaped most members of the Government when it came along. I refer to the confusion that arose in the minds of the pensioners in this country. The pensioners were worried about how much they would have to pay because the last Medibank booklet produced said that pensioners may have to pay the levy even if they have a pensioner health benefit card.  Mrs Irene  Ellis, secretary of the pensioners' association, and  Mr Wilson,  its  president,  came here and asked what was going on. I said: 'According to the scales in this booklet you will have to pay the levy'. They went and saw  Mr Lynch  and he said: 'I am sure that is not right'.  Mr Lynch  rang the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  and  Mr Hunt  said: 'I am sorry. It is right'. Only 4 weeks ago the Government made a decision, one with which we of the Opposition agree, after all that time following the decision in May to introduce the scheme, to exempt the pensioner health benefit card holders. 
-I think it is fine. I agree with the decision. But we were told that this scheme had been well thought out.  Senator Walters  had been telling the people in Hobart that this scheme was the greatest thing since sliced bread. Yet the Government suddenly realised that it had forgotten about the pensioners. 
I am not objecting but this was not consultation.  Mrs Irene  Ellis, secretary of the pensioners' association, had to tell the Treasurer of Australia and the Minister for Health what was going on. These were the people who knew what was going on. These were the people, advised by the men who allegedly drew up this proposal, the Medibank Review Committee, who know what was going on. These were the people who told the people of Australia: 'We know how to fix things in this country and we know what is wrong.' Unfortunately the people of Australia are learning what is going on in this country. So that was one problem that we had. Then  Senator Donald  Cameron came into the Senate and asked the Minister for Social Security what was going on. He asked whether the pensioners were going to have to pay the Medibank levy even though they held a pension medical card. The Minister said: No, they will not, not if they have a pensioner health card.' Then the Minister said: 'And neither will some other low income groups.' So we said: 'What low income groups?' We have been saying that since. This legislation is to take effect on I October and we still do not know what low income groups are going to be exempted. 
We do not know. Perhaps  Senator Walters  can inform us. We know that there are to be regulations under this legislation. If  Senator Baume  can inform us about this I would welcome his doing so. We do not know what low income earners the Minister was talking about who will be exempt. The Minister said provision would be made for this in the legislation. The only provision in the legislation is for regulations to exempt people from the levy- for instance, pensioners holding a pensioner health card and other non-specified, unknown, low income earners. Who are they to be, droughtstricken farmers? 
Who are they going to be and what are the levels to be? That is what we have been asking. 
I invite the honourable senator to look at the explanatory memorandum and tell us where this is set out in it because we do not know. Like  Senator Walters,  I am not a constitutional lawyer. I wonder, however, whether we should be remitting taxation by regulation. I hope that the regulations that come out will go before the Regulations and Ordinances Committee or someone who knows what they are all about. I do not know. We have seen lawyers suggest that it is not quite right to remit taxation from a group of people here or there all over the country without legislation. 
That statement is typical of an answer from the representative in this chamber of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in relation to this sort of thing. Why does the Government not include it? We give notice that we intend to move an amendment to put in the legislation a provision that pensioners who hold a pensioner health card should be exempt form the levy. But,  Senator Walters,  surprise, surprise, it ain't in there. 
No. The amendment is to the effect that this should be in the legislation. 
-I am critical of the methods that the Government uses to do this. I want to know who else is exempt apart from the pensioner health card carriers. I am not referring to the group on the little graph. We know about the people with over $2,600 and over $4,200. We want to know about the extra groups. 

 - Senator Walters is again demonstrating her extraordinary ignorance of the legislation when she starts to bring in repatriation pensioners because the Minister has spoken about others and later she will tell us what others. 

 - Senator Walters is indulging in debating points that she learnt in high school many years ago. Probably it was not in a high school. 
I am sure it was not. Not with an accent like that. These are just a couple of areas where there is great difficulty but there are other areas of the legislation which I think should be of concern to all of us. Under the original health scheme and under the present health scheme one could change freely from one health fund to another. One could change from the Medical Benefits Fund to the Hospitals Contribution Fund. If one were paid up with MBF and then transferred to HCF one was immediately covered. According to our reading of this legislation people cannot do that. In fact the 2-month waiting period will apply if people cross from one fund to another. We hope that that is not so but if it is we believe it should be changed because the result would be that people are locked into the fund with which they start, be it Medibank Private, MBF, HCF or any other fund like that, and there will be a financial penalty if they change from one fund to another. We view this matter with some concern because it has been suggested not only by members of the Opposition, not only by people involved with the National Health Insurance Commission but by  Mr Cade,  who normally - 
-Jack Cade. 
I am not surprised that  Senator Baume  has not heard of him. Perhaps he contacts only members of the Opposition when he is annoyed. Anyway, my friend  Mr Cade  has suggested that some private funds may have set their premiums artificially low by using their reserves.  Mr Cade  actually criticised some funds for using their reserves to cut premiums. If people are lured into joining these funds because of the artificially low premiums now and later the premiums go above those charged by MBF or Medibank Private and the people want to change over, it is wrong, I believe, for no provision to be made to get rid of this apparent financial penalty for changing funds. We genuinely believe that if the Government wants the private health insurance funds to compete with each other and wants people to have a choice, they should have a choice other than the first choice of the fund which they join. 
I am asking for clarification of that point, because we feel that it would be wrong as a result of this legislation for people to get locked into one fund, be it Medibank Private or any other fund. 
Yes. I will take it the other way. Medibank Private fees may go up very steeply for some reason. People may want to get out of it and into HCF or one of the other valuntary funds. I believe there should be a provision by which they can do so without incurring a 2 months penalty, without having to pay into 2 funds for 2  months. 
It is not always interested in competition. I am trying to be fair about this matter. I am perfectly willing to accept that I may be wrong. We tried to get an explanation of this in the other place, but we could not. The Government has had great difficulties since it introduced this legislation. We believe that there are more difficulties. We believe that more difficulties will appear along the line. I do not want to go into this matter in great detail. There was the controversy which arose and which was reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  about what happens when both husband and wife are working, the husband has the full levy taken out, and the wife has the levy taken out also. Who is exempt and who is not? It became so confusing that no-one understood it. The Treasurer decided that we would sort out the matter. I merely recommend to members that they look at the story in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 18 September, at the editorial in that paper on the same day and at the Treasurer's letter. I do not believe it is worth incorporating the whole lot in  Hansard.  I do not believe it is worth reading the whole lot. I think the editor's reply to the Treasurer's letter is typical of how a lot of people feel about the matter. The Treasurer wrote a long letter which everyone to whom I have spoken finds difficulty in understanding. I suggest that the  Sydney Morning Herald  is certainly not a pro-Labor paper. It certainly has not been as hard as some of the papers have been on the Government's Medibank changes. The editor's reply to the Treasurer's letter which was published on 22 September states: 
The Treasurer is being either deliberately disingenuous or remarkably obtuse. The  Herald's  point is that if a man does not pay the health insurance levy his wife is denied her right to free Medibank insurance, because, as  Mr Lynch  admits, the rule is that, for exemption from levy to be available to anyone with a family, the family must be covered by private insurance.' A woman, eligible as a taxpayer for free Medibank cover, is denied it because she is married. The husband is penalised for not paying the levy. Is this the 'free choice'  Mr Lynch  's Government says is available to everybody? 

 Mr Lynch has not been able to clarify that difficulty since then. He has not been able to clarify it to the satisfaction of anybody on this side. Other speakers on this side will bring out further areas of confusion. They will question the reasons for this action. They will express the concern that is being expressed everywhere in the community. Nobody will be able to dispute the words of  Mr Peter  Samuel in the  Bulletin  who  started an article by stating  that the new Medibank is merely a small technical adjustment to the present scheme. The  Bulletin  then spent 3 weeks and about 90 pages explaining the simple technical adjustment and how people could make their choice. 
I do not wish to prolong this debate unduly. Last year I hoped we had finished this long series of health insurance debates. Apparently  Senator Baume  and I, for as long as we are senators, will be debating the same subject in this place. The Opposition affirms that the Medibank scheme should be funded as it has been funded since its inception, by the good grace of Liberal and Country Parties, from Consolidated Revenue. Therefore, I move: 
At end of motion add-  , but the Senate is of the opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue '. 
-I beg the indulgence of the Committee to speak on these 3 clauses, in view of an answer that the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  gave. Both  Senator Harradine  and I are concerned that people may be locked into a fund and not be able to change from that fund to another fund without waiting for 2 months and without paying a penalty. Firstly, I am absolutely certain that in 3  Commonwealth  department staff letters it is said that normally people must stay in their respective funds, but if they wish to change to another fund they will have to pay into both funds or pay the levy and the contribution to the new fund during that 2 months waiting period. Secondly, it is a fact that under this scheme and under the old scheme it is the practice, by agreement between the voluntary health funds, that free transfer between funds exists. I believe it to be a fact that nowhere in this legislation is there anything to compel the voluntary health funds to continue that. Also, there is no provision to prevent the voluntary health funds from saying that they will not eccept transfers to or from Medibank Private or that they will not make an arrangement with Medibank Private for such transfers. 
Already we have the situation that some firms are refusing to allow Medibank Private premiums to be taken out of salaries, whereas they will allow this to be done for the Hospitals Contribution Fund, the Medical Benefits Fund, the St Luke 's fund, or any other fund. I think it is very important in order to guarantee the competition that people on the Government side think is so important, that by legislation, instruction, or however it can be done, the Government make absolutely sure that the private health funds do not try to lock people into individual funds, into the private funds as distinct from Medibank Private. They may well do so, in view of some of the things they have done in the past. I think this is a very important point. I do not think that verbal guarantees from the Government are good enough in this situation. I do not believe that the Government can speak for all the voluntary funds in this regard, although I hope it can. I hope that it brings pressure to bear on the voluntary funds so that they play the game in this regard. 
I wish to clear up a misunderstanding which I think  Senator McLaren  probably has. Because of my mumbling he probably did not understand what I said. I did not refer to a ministeral document. I referred to a departmental staff newsletter which, I understand, is not confidential. That was the paper to which  Senator Cotton  was referring. It was not a ministerial document or anything like that. I think  Senator Brown's  request is a reasonable one. I do not think it would take very long for a guarantee to come from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that he would take certain action to guarantee that this point would be cleared up. It is an important point. It is an important point to members on this side. It should be an important point to members on the other side who give us so many lectures about freedom of choice and about competition between funds. 
We understand that Medibank Private has been set up in free competition with the private health funds. In the past they have not always played the game. Every government since John Gorton was Prime Minister has had difficulty with them. I think that the people of this country need some guarantee that the Minister for Health will, by regulation or by legislation, prevent the private health funds from taking advantage of any loophole in the legislation or in the regulations, thus locking people in the funds. I think the request is reasonable. I should not have thought that the ascertaining of the information would take very long. Therefore I support the request. 
-I have an amendment to clause 4, which reads in part: 
Section 25 1 v of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-sections ( 1 ), (2) and (3), after the word 'Pan' (wherever occurring), the words "and of any Act imposing leevy "; 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) the words 'or a Medibank contributor'; and 
I move: 
After paragraph (a) insert the following new paragraph: (aa) by inserting after paragraph (b) of sub-section (1) the following paragraph: "(ba) during the whole of that period the person was entitled to pensioner health benefits; " ' 
Over the last few weeks we have had some discussion on this point. As I said before, the confusion first arose when it was discovered that there was nothing in the legislation but there was a statement in the booklet produced on Medibank which suggested that pensioners who hold pensioner health benefit cards would have to pay the levy. They were concerned, the Combined Pensions Association was concerned, the Opposition was concerned,  Mr Lynch  was concerned when he discovered it,  Mr Hunt  was concerned when  Mr Lynch  passed it on to him, and the Government then announced that it would exclude all pensioner health benefit card holders from paying the levy. We welcome the decision. We support the decision. 
We then had the situation which arose because  Senator Guilfoyle,  in reply to a question in the House, suggested that other low income earners under the present legislation would be likely to be excluded from. paying this levy. We assume that the way in which they would be excluded would be by declaring them prescribed persons under the legislation. We agree that pensioner health benefit card holders should be excluded from the levy. We agree that members of the defence forces and relatives or otherwise associated members of the defence forces should be excluded from the levy. We agree that persons entitled under any of the repatriation Acts to free medical treatment in respect of every incapacity, disease or disabling condition should be excluded from the levy. We do not see why the members of the defence forces, and the repatriation pensioners should be specifically excluded from the levy in the legislation and pensioners who hold pensioner health benefit cards should have to be excluded under the regulations in the legislation. We believe that the pensioners are in the same case as the other two groups. In fact it should be written into the legislation that they should be excluded from the levy. That is the reason for the amendment. 
We would also like to know who are the other low income earners who will be excluded from the levy. If a single pensioner receiving $70 and holding a pensioner health benefit card should be excluded from the levy we believe that a single person who is not holding a pensioner health benefit card or who is not even a pensioner has a pretty fair case, on the basis of economic need, for being excluded from the levy. Perhaps it is new migrants and those people who live in extreme poverty because of drought or other condition who should be excluded from the levy. We think that there should be some reasonable, constant needs priority for the exclusion. We think that the best and simplest way to do it would be to increase the lower limits of the levy to prevent those people with low incomes from paying it. But at least we ask that the Government write into the legislation the pensioners who hold their pensioner health benefits cards in the way in which the other groups are to be written in. This amendment would do that. We would also like some clarification on who are the other low income groups that the Government intends to exclude from the levy, we assume, by declaring them prescribed persons. 
Senator Wright and I have a lot of differences in this place. It is pleasing for once to hear the honourable senator agreeing with the words which I believe I used in my speech on the second reading debate. I do not think it is any excuse at all to say that when we were in government we had a similar sort of regulation making clause in our legislation. I do not believe that this is the sort of legislation where we need to have a regulation to give somebody outside the Parliament the right to exclude any group it likes. I shall give an example of a ridiculous extreme which may never exist. We could have a government which desires to win a seat in the country or in the city. . 
It could latch on to some specific item like a drought in one area or an industrial breakdown in another area in order to exclude vast numbers of people from an impost in that area. It could do that by regulation. Surely the criterion for whether or not people are excluded from the levy is need. It should not be difficult to draw up strict criteria of need and to write it into this legislation. Then there would be no need for this regulation. 
I have heard it said that it may be of dubious validity to exclude people from a tax or an impost by regulation. I do not know. I am not a constitutional lawyer. In general I believe that it is wrong to put in regulations like this. We have vast numbers of regulations. None of us in this Parliament can keep up with them. Often, none of us know what is happening when regulations are made. This consideration should come into the matter. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has to meet once, or twice, or three times a week to try to keep up with the regulations. I am not sure that all members can guarantee that they can keep up. This sort of thing which involves large amounts of money, taxation and exemption from taxation can surely be written into the legislation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be inserted  (Senator Grimes'  amendment) be inserted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It arises from the case of Miss Kathy Dezso who was refused unemployment benefit last week because she was allegedly unsuitably dressed for an interview for a job. A Melbourne newspaper reported on Saturday last: 
A spokesman for  Senator Guilfoyle  said yesterday that sometimes the dole was cut off as a punitive measure for a short period. 
I ask the Minister: In future, will recipients of unemployment benefit who have their benefit withdrawn for reasons such as this be able to give their side of the argument before they lose the dole? Can the Minister say whether precise guidelines have been set down for the length of punishment to be suffered by applicants for benefit who do not comply with dress standards? Do the same people who lay down the dress standards administer the punishment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It refers to the question that I asked earlier of  Senator Guilfoyle,  who has told us that the work test applied to Miss Dezso of Newcastle was applied by the Commonwealth Employment Service. I ask the Minister: Was the work test in fact merely a report from the potential employer of the girl? Did the Commonwealth Employment Service take the word of the potential employer without checking with the young lady who had applied for the job for her side of the story? What guidelines are issued to Commonwealth Employment Service officers concerning dress and appearance of persons to whom this work test is applied? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many organisations have applied for capital or recurrent grants in respect of accommodation or care for fewer than 20 people, since the inception of the Homeless Persons Assistance Program. 
What proportion of applications does this represent. 
) How many of these applications have been approved. 
What proportion of the approvals does this represent 
Have applications been received from self-help groups prepared to administer their own projects. 
Have these been approved. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Are exact statistics maintained of the number or percentage of unemployment benefit claimants whose claims are not approved or whose benefits are not continued because of their failure to meet the work tests? Have any surveys been made of terminations due to special advices from the Commonwealth Employment Service? In particular, what is known of the number of claimants for unemployment benefits who have been forced to wait until the expiration of the 6-week period because they voluntarily left their last employment? If the answer to any of these questions is yes, could the Minister release such figures to the Senate? 
-This Bill, which amends the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act, has the effect of increasing the rate of the handicapped children's benefit from $3.50 a day to $5 a day. This Bill will not be opposed by the Opposition, nor has the Australian Labor Party any desire to delay the passage of this legislation. The increase from $3.50 to $5 a day is a rise which keeps up with inflation but does no more than that. None the less the increases will be welcomed by those charitable, religious and voluntary agencies which are eligible to receive payments under this legislation and which care for many of the handicapped children in our community. Many of these agencies are in some financial difficulty. State institutions which care for these children have long waiting lists and this often throws the burden onto the non-governmental agencies which may be caring for the children of people in some financial difficulty through unemployment, sickness or lowered incomes, in depressed industries such as the rural industries. In such cases the benefit becomes an indirect subsidy sometimes to the families involved. 
In any case smaller, perhaps more residential type of accommodation, is considered preferable by many of us, I am sure, to accommodate handicapped children of various types. It is certainly a more appropriate sort of unit for those children who need residential and institutional type care. The Labor Government introduced the handicapped children's allowance which was payable to the parents of handicapped children who cared for them at home. This was introduced in December 1975 and this form of care is often the preferable form of care for many children with handicaps. It is of some assistance, but there will still remain a need for suitable residential care and suitable residential accommodation for handicapped children in the community. One of the difficulties is to know how many children need this care and how to plan for the future. In this regard we would like to know from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  if possible how many of the approvals for this sort of accommodation have had to be deferred this year due to various restraints. 
Future plans for the care of handicapped children- and handicapped adults for that matterin our community in particular depend very much on having an accurate assessment of the size and the type of the problem that we face. In general in this community there has been a deplorable lack of hard statistical data in the welfare field. It has been complained about by welfare professionals in various voluntary agencies. I know that it is a problem to governments, and the Social Wefare Commission when in existence pointed out the great difficulties which we face in trying to rationalise our welfare programs and in trying to rationalise future developments not only in this field but also in many other fields. It was for this reason that this year's census form contained questions which it was hoped would overcome this lack of knowledge. These questions referred to numbers of handicapped peoples in various families and the types of handicaps they had. I believe that it is a regrettable thing that, with the staff ceilings in the various economy drives that the Government has felt necessary to put in train, these figures will not be available for up to 2 years. Of course, by that time they will be out of date. I think that we should urge the Government to reconsider the delay in processing figures of this type, which are obviously needed if we are to take a sensible approach to the problems that we know we face. I am sure that people from the Australian Bureau of Statistics would be keen and anxious to get this sort of information available because for too long in this country we have been going in the dark. We have been approaching all welfare programs in a piecemeal way with methods whereby we have no idea where we are going or what sort of result we will produce from our legislation. 
The Opposition is also somewhat concerned that the handicapped assistance plans in general are the subject of inquiry by another task forceanother committee of inquiry- of the Government. We well remember that one of the criticisms of the Labor Government was that there were too many commissions and committees of inquiry. We have had the results of those commissions and committees of inquiry. It seems to us that we will not get the results of the committees of inquiry that have been set up by the present Government. The Bailey task force on health and welfare in the community is due very shortly to produce an interim report. I believe that it is expected to be produced at the end of this month. But we have no idea to whom it will report and whether this House and this Parliament will see it. 
In the area of handicapped assistance in general one item has been given top priority by the Bailey task force. It has been given a star rating. That item is the very benefit mentioned in this Bill- the handicapped children's benefit. We know from the terms of reference of the task force that the Government has given this task force the problem of deciding which programs and which items will be eliminated and which will be consolidated and, to cite the terms of reference, which items will be co-ordinated at the State and local government level without Commonwealth involvement. We are quite fascinated that this item has been given top priority at the time when it has been legislated for. At the end of the month the task force will report and we hope that we will get some official knowledge of the recommendations of the task force. 
The Labor Party has been responsible for the introduction of a number of plans to help the handicapped in this community. The Labor Government, which was in power until last November, was responsible for the most comprehensive plan for handicapped persons. In May 1974  Mr Hayden  foreshadowed a 15-point plan for assistance to all handicapped people. This plan was introduced in either late 1974 or early 1975 and included in it was the handicapped children's allowance which will be the subject of legislation later in this session. The handicapped children's benefit in 1974 was doubled from $ 10.50 a week to $2 1 a week. 
But more than that was introduced. Various plans and schemes were introduced and the Handicapped Assistance Act was consolidated so that we could make a step forward in assisting handicapped people of all ages. The changes that were then introduced were introduced after consultation with the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled and the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded. These organisations are very useful organisations which do a lot of research. Their members are concerned people who know the problems of the handicapped of all ages. They can make a great contribution to the formulation of Government policy and we hope that the Government is keeping close liaison with them. The Austraiian Association for the Mentally Retarded, for instance, is very keen to help establish in this capital city an institute to study the mentally retarded and methods of rehabilitation and treatment of them. Whether this is the appropriate place for it I would not know, but I think it is a worthwhile idea and one worth investigating. 
In the Budget the handicapped children's allowance is increased by SO per cent, and certainly we will not oppose that. The handicapped children's benefit is increased by some 40 per cent. However, we notice that the incentive allowance for handicapped people in sheltered employment has not been increased at all. The rationale for this decision may be reasonable but we would like to know what it is. We believe also that the Government should be mindful of the importance of community involvement in the provision of facilities for the handicapped and, perhaps more importantly, mindful of increasing awareness in the  community of  the problems of the handicapped, of handicapped children and especially the problems of the parents of handicapped children. In this regard the Austraiian Assistance Plan was important in respect of improving facilities and awareness. It is important that community involvement and awareness be encouraged. We believe it is a great pity that this stimulus to community involvement and awareness has been lost. 
The Opposition does not oppose this increase- in fact it welcomes it- but we urge the Government to look to the future and plan. We will welcome such planning and the provision of information on which such planning is based. We hope that future welfare plans in this and other areas of social security will be on the basis of good, hard statistical data, of research and of information and that that information will not be buried in interdepartmental committees of inquiry which do not report to this Parliament, committees of inquiry to which matters are referred and which report only to have part of their reports acted upon and parts rejected while the Parliament, the public, the people involved and the parents of the people involved have no idea of the basis on which these plans were developed. We urge the Government to facilitate such planning by obtaining the necessary statistical information that is available from the Bureau of Statistics through the last census and from any other source and that the Government will not rest on the small cash increases in this benefit, important though it is, and in the handicapped children's allowance. We should look at the whole field of handicapped persons. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that Telecom Australia is purchasing or intends to purchase from Canada for the production of the next series of telephone directories large quantities of paper which could be supplied by the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd at Wesley Vale in north-western Tasmania. As unemployment in north-western Tasmania is much higher than the national average, will the Minister consider asking Telecom to reconsider its Canadian order to protect the jobs of people in northwestern Tasmania? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. What information can the Minister give the Senate regarding an investigation to consider the possible incorporation of all social workers on the Commonwealth Government's payroll into the Department of Social Security? Has the Minister authorised this investigation? Can she give the Senate its terms of reference? Will the investigation team make the report public and allow social workers and perhaps their clients to comment on the findings of this committee? Can the Minister assure the Senate that there will be no arbitrary placing of social workers into a system of social controllers, thereby lessening their effectiveness in acting for people and, if necessary, acting against the advice of the Department of Social Security? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It concerns an article in the  Canberra Times  today which refers to an alleged statement by a member of the staff of the Minister's Department relating to deterioration of morale amongst members of the staff and the fact that staff members refuse to write blatant deceit in material for public consumption. Was such a statement released? Is it a fact that there is deterioration in morale among the staff of the Department? Is it a fact that staff members of the Department have been asked to write blatant deceit in material for public consumption? Was this statement by the staff member withdrawn at the request of the departmental head? If so, what methods of persuasion did the departmental head use to have the statement withdrawn? 
I should like to ask a supplementary question. The Minister referred to a statement put out by the Director-General of her Deparment which pointed out inaccuracies in the original statement issued by the officer of her Department. Will the Minister make available to the Parliament- if necessary, by tabling- any statement put out by her Director-General in the last 24 hours which refers to inaccuracies in the original statement and which points out the basis of those inaccuracies? 
by leave- I take this opportunity to comment on the subject of the solar eclipse which is to occur on Saturday. In my short time as a member of the Senate, I do not think there is any single subject which has had such an airing from any single person as the solar eclipse has had from the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster). 
-At one stage I thought that the Minister was actually going to claim for the Government credit for putting on the solar eclipse. Ministerial statements are very useful in the Parliament. They are useful for informing members of Parliament of the Government's policies. They are useful for informing us of the activities of the various departments. They are useful also, I suggest, for getting as much publicity as possible for some Ministers. This ministerial statement gives us as much information, I suppose, as have all the other various statements that have been delivered by  Senator Webster.  He says that he made the statement to save the sight of some people. I notice that it is only in the last paragraph of the statement that he has mentioned the fact that sight may be endangered. I agree with the Minister that it is very important that people in the community do not look at the eclipse and therefore do not have their sight endangered. Honourable senators have also heard some other useful information in this statement. For instance, if we go 300 kilometres up into the ionisphere, we will see a 100 per cent eclipse. That is a fascinating piece of information. 
-I advise  Senator Withers  not to go there even if he is armed with lychees or European carp or all the other things we hear about in this place from  Senator Withers. 
-The next point I wish to make will, I am sure, concern  Senator Wright.  In this statement we have evidence of a great change of attitude by  Senator Webster,  a change of attitude which, I believe, may get him into trouble with his fellow Party members. A situation recently arose in which the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen-  a member, I believe, of the same political party as  Senator Webster-  refused to allow cotton scientists to go to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which is the world 's biggest producer of cotton, to study cotton production.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  did so because he was sure that the Queensland scientists could not learn anything there and also that they might be corrupted by the people in the U.S.S.R. who are known largely as communists. Every time I have heard  Senator Webster  mention the words 'communist' or 'Russia' in this place, it has been associated with abuse. He has called anyone to the left of Louis XV a communist. He has continually told us that communists are evil and that those of us whom he considers to be on the Left in a political sense are communists or collaborators with communists. 
What do we find now? We find that members of  Senator Webster's  department are to collaborate with scientists from the U.S.S.R. in experiments associated with the solar eclipse. I ask  Senator Webster  to reconsider this statement because I do not wish him to be in trouble with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and those other colleagues of his in this country. I am disturbed that  Senator Webster  mentions the U.S.S.R. without the tirade of abuse that he usually gives in this place when he mentions it. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber thank  Senator Webster  for the information on the solar eclipse that he has provided in ministerial statements, in question time and in Press statements over the last few weeks. We sincerely hope that this statement will be his final word on the subject. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
At the end of the motion, add:  but that the Senate deplores the inequities which arise from- 
the Government's failure to carry out its election promise to legislate for immediate and automatic increases in pensions and benefits in line with the Consumer Price Index; 
b ) the Government 's failure to index dependants ' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living; and 
the Government's failure to protect the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by provisions in this legislation. ' 
I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to reports in today's Press of dissension between officers of her Department and of the Department of Health which has apparently resulted in a breakdown of communications between the departments. I might add that these reports follow allegations made yesterday of dissension and dissatisfaction within the Department of Social Security. I ask the Minister: Is it correct that the Senate can take the view that not all is well within her Department? Is the Minister investigating the claims that have been made in the Press? Is she concerned about the effects of such wrangling on the efficiency of her Department? Will the Minister assure the Senate that action is being taken to ensure that the clients of her Department are protected from any inefficiency which may result from this wrangling? 
-I believe that it is the desire of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)-  the Opposition certainly concurs in this desire- that we debate this Bill with the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 3 ) 1 976 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. 
The two main Bills contain provisions which concern this House more than anything else, I believe. The Bills concerned are the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976 and in the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. These measures provide for pension and benefit increases in line with the consumer price increases for the March and June quarters of this year; they introduce a form of indexation for pensions and benefits; they provide for an increase in the handicapped children's allowance; they provide for a change in the means test on pensions and benefits from an income and assets basis to a pure income basis; and they provide for changes to confirm the payment of unemployment benefits on a fortnightly basis rather than a weekly basis and changes in the daily rate of those benefits. 
The Opposition is concerned about what we would describe as the sins of commission and omission in these Bills. It is also concerned that the Government is introducing new anomalies and inequalities into the social security system to replace existing anomalies and inequalities. It is also concerned at the blatant disregard of the Government for its election promises. As an expression of this concern the Opposition will move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976 and a similar amendment at a later date to the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. 1 now move: 
At end of motion, add:  but the Senate deplores the inequities which arise from- 
the Government's failure to carry out its election promise to legislate for immediate and automatic increases in pensions and benefits in line with the Consumer Price Index; 
the Government's failure to index dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living; 
the Government's failure to increase the supplementary benefit; 
the Government's failure to provide for the automatic adjustment of unemployment and sickness benefits for those under 1 8 years of age; and 
the Government's failure to protect the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by provisions in this legislation. ' 
Before proceeding to the specific matters in the Bills I would like to comment generally on what we see as the Government's approach in this area, particularly on the Government's attitude to future planning and developments in social security. The social security system in this country, as we all know, has developed in a piecemeal manner over the last 76 years. The system has always had fairly modest aims, namely the alleviation of poverty and in the case of aged pensioners the prevention of poverty. I think we all would agree that there is ample evidence to show that in attempting to achieve these modest aims we have failed and the system has failed. Recognising this, the previous Liberal-Country Party Government commissioned an inquiry into poverty under Professor Henderson. The Labor Government continued and extended it. 
In the past 3 years we have had inquiries of various sorts and reports of various sorts from the Social Welfare Commission, from Professor Hancock on superannuation, from  Mr Justice  Woodhouse on compensation, and from the various voluntary agencies and others concerned in social welfare in this country. At the moment we are awaiting several government reports from the Income Security Review Committee, from the Committee of Inquiry into Housing for the Aged and from the Bailey Task Force on Health and Welfare. Other inquiries such as that by the Medibank Review Committee, have been undertaken. Whether we will see any of these reports is another matter. The outcome of all these reports is, I believe, a picture which we cannot be part of. It is a picture of unnecessary poverty and injustices which in most cases is defined on what Professor Henderson called an austere poverty line. I suggest that, if we defined the definition of poverty beyond just income to include access to basic services, personal self-respect, opportunity for self-advancement and access to the law and to the decision making processes in our community, the position is much worse. 
The Government has made some selective changes to the welfare system. Members of the Government have proclaimed Professor Henderson's report as the basis for these changes. However, Professor Henderson's proposals were carefully considered and carefully written. They consisted of a series of interlocking and intermeshing recommendations which considered carefully the ramifications of each proposal and took into account any adverse effects that the implementation of those recommendations would make. For instance, when the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty made recommendations concerning family allowances it equally as firmly recommended the provision of further proper child care services. The Government, I put to the Senate, ignored the latter. A similar position applies to the report which recommends a change in the means test from an income and assets test to a pure income test. The report recognises that to preserve some justice in the situation some recognition of the position of capital gains on assets would have to be made. The Government has ignored this recommendation, I believe, because of ideological difficulties and because of the high concern that conservative governments traditionally place on the position of property in our community. I suggest that the Government, in doing so, has changed the anomalies and injustices which exist under the present means test for another set of anomalies and injustices. This selective niching from Professor Henderson's report or from any report, I believe, is dangerous. I believe that it ensures that the same piecemeal approach which we have taken for the provision of welfare in this community will continue. 
I believe this approach has resulted in a decrease in the morale of those concerned with social security in this country. I believe that this approach after 3 years of hope that at least some change was going to be made, that something was going to happen, has caused this decrease in morale, certainly in the voluntary agencies. I suggest there is some evidence of this approach within the Government departments themselves. I do not believe any smooth words of reassurance from Government members can hide this fact. 
It is obvious to all concerned that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  determined that life should not be easy, that those who receive support should be worthy of it as well as in need of it, and steeped in the tradition of the protection of property rights in the community, has been continuously concerning himself, and some may say interfering, with the field of social security. The Income Security Review tribunal, for instance, has been converted from a review tribunal to a tribunal whose aim and exercise are to cut government spending at all costs. I believe that this is why we have substituted the open inquiries of the last 3 years with secret and private inquiries that we have now; inquiries that will result in legislation, as we had in the Medibank legislation, without this Parliament or the public having any real idea what the committee that looked into a subject reported, why it suggested those changes, or why the changes were brought in at all. 
It is obvious from instructions to departmental heads, to the Director-General of the Department of Social Security and from the Prime Minister to his Ministers concerning the Henderson Report that the main concern is not reform of the administration of the system. It is not an openminded and general approach to recommendations relieving injustices. The approach is whether the implementation can be hived-off to State and local authorities, whether the recommendations conflict with the Government's preconceived philosophical or ideological bias and whether the recommendations appear to do other than directly relieve poverty; that is, poverty when it is defined in terms of money. 
Professor Henderson also clearly sets out that it was a restricted definition, and  Senator Baume  knows it well. This approach, which is selective and inhibited by conservative hangups, is concerned more with filching political gimmicks with little concern for any evaluation of how those proposals will work. 
The first point in our amendment refers to the new pension indexation proposals. The Government made great play of this proposal in the last election campaign. It made great play of its intention automatically to index pensions and benefits, but it went further than that.  Mr Chipp,  who was then the Minister for Social Security in the caretaker Government, made it quite clear what government policy was. He made it clear that his policy had the full approval of both parties in the coalition Government and he spelled it out very clearly in a statement on 8 December when he said: 
We propose to bring in legislation which will allow increases in pensions to be made instantly and automatically as soon as the new index is announced. This will eliminate the procedures now necessary in having a debate to debate a Bill in Parliament in order to increase pensions. This procedure takes time and involves a delay of up to 3 months between the announcement of the increases in inflation and the increase in pensions going to pensioners. 

 Mr Fraser repeatedly during the election campaign lauded this approach. He repeatedly said that the coalition's proposals to index pensions instantly and automatically were better than Labor's proposals because there would be no delay, and as soon as the consumer price index figures came out the pensions would automatically rise. There would be no delay in waiting for the average weekly earning figures to come out. This was one of the most clearly spelled out intentions of the Government during the last election campaign. The Government was reminded of it by the Opposition early this year when the first Social Services Amendment Bill came before this House. It was reminded of it by the Pensioners Association many times and it was reminded of it by  Mr Chipp  during the debate on the first Social Services Amendment Bill of this year. This legislation does not fulfil that promise. It provides for a delay, not of 3 months but of 4 and sometimes 5 months. 
There is nothing instant about the provisions in this legislation. It is deliberately reneging on one of the few firm promises of the Government parties. Why is this so? I think it is perfectly clear that the reason is that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  perhaps under the influence of the Treasury has convinced the Government that it is necessary to cut government spending no matter where it is cut and even if that cut affects the underprivileged in the community. The Government has been willing to go back on its clear election promise. We know that  Mr Hayden  in the House of Representatives, when this Bill was being debated, tabled the departmental projections of the additional cost of earlier payment and the department found that it would cost some $60m more if the increase had been paid in August, which is still a delay in view of the original proposals. The increased cost may be some $70m if the next pension increase is paid early, say, in February or March. It seems to us that the Treasury and method Treasurer stepped in and out went the proposals and out went the promise. We join with the pensioners associations and those other concerned bodies and express our concern and disgust at this sort of behaviour. This was Liberal-Country Party policy. Labor Party policy was and still remains that indexation to average weekly earnings is the most fair and relative method of adjusting pensions. 
I will come to that. Do not get excited,  Senator Baume,  to quote  Senator Withers.  We still believe that this is so. We carried it out when we were in Government by increasing pensions from 19 per cent of average weekly earnings to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings.  Senator Walters,  who then probably was not even in politics, would not know. We still believe that that is the best method for a couple of reasons. The first reason is that fiddling with the average weekly earning figures is very difficult. Fiddling with the consumer price index, which has been threatened by the Treasurer at various times- he has suggested that perhaps the Medibank levy should not be included and perhaps we should change the CPI to give what he would consider to be a real estimate of cost of living increases- can be too easily done. 
We are not concerned that pension increases should have to come before this Parliament and be debated but we are concerned that under indexation proposals like this the present relative level of pensions will remain static even though the wealth, production and conditions in this country improve. We are concerned that this may be considered the final act and that pensions will stay there and perhaps deteriorate to the level to which they deteriorated in the previous 22 years before 1972. We are determined to watch that this does not happen and to do what we can to ensure that it does not happen. It is obvious that those organisations concerned with pensioners also will carefully watch for this and attempt to keep the Government honest. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1S p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended, in discussing the Social Services Amendment Bill and the Repatriation Amendment Bill, I had been pointing out that the provision in the legislation for indexation of pensions to movements in the consumer price index did not fulfil the election promise made by the present Government. I had pointed out also that Labor's policy was to index pensions to average weekly earnings as we felt that this was a more real and fairer way of dealing with this matter. I had pointed out further that making provision in this legislation for automatic increases in pensions without the need for Parliament to legislate accordingly did not necessarily mean that pensioners would be treated better in the future; that there was some danger that the Parliament would not come to consider whether the actual relative level of pensions was high enough; that the fact that the legislation provided for an automatic increase might be a convenient excuse for not increasing pensions further when they had fallen behind previous levels as the result of inflation or increases in productivity. 
In Labor's last Budget, pensions were increased in accordance with consumer price index movements. This brought the pension to almost 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, which was the basis on which Labor had perviously granted pension increases. In the last Budget, we said that we had adopted the new method because of economic constraints. We did not seek to alter the legislation to cover inadequacies in our policy. 
The second topic which arises from this legislation about which I wish to speak is the problem of the dependent children's allowance. An amendment to this legislation in April or May of this year also mentioned dependent children. Children who are dependent on pensioners are in a very parlous state in this community. Many reports, including the Henderson Report on Poverty, have pointed out that families with children dependent on benefits and pensions are at a considerable disadvantage. The Labor Party has always been concerned about the children of these pensioners. As honourable senators know, the Labor Government when in office increased the dependent children's allowance to $7.50 per child a week. We feel that if an argument can bc made to index the general pension twice yearly on the basis of movements in the consumer price index there is an argument also to increase allowances paid to children who are dependent children. 
Arguments have been put, I know, that the new family allowance scheme somehow makes it unnecessary to increase dependent childrens allowances. The argument suggests that the family allowances make everything all right. We do not believe for one minute that this is so. We know that the new family allowances scheme which we did not oppose does help people in this situation. But those who receive the dependent children's allowance have needs other than those experienced by the children of those persons on a regular wage who are not dependent on the Government for pensions and benefits. Therefore, we believe it is necessary, if this general indexation principle is a policy of the Government, that the Government index an allowance of this type which goes to the most disadvantaged members of the community. 
A similar argument applies to the supplementary benefits which go to the poorest of the poor in our community. They go to those people on pensions and benefits who have very little more than that pension or benefit in their income. These people live in rented accommodation and are therefore at the bottom of the financial heap in this country. Included in this category are some 60 per cent of supporting mothers, some 44 per cent of invalid pensioners, some 29 per cent to 30 per cent of widowed pensioners and some 14 per cent of age pensioners. In a time of housing shortage and depression in the building industry with costs increasing for this group of people, many with children, I suggest that these people deserve support and deserve to be protected in the same way as the Government is attempting to protect other pensioners. We believe that it is time that this benefit was increased and that the only way to guarantee increases of this type by this Government is to put that requirement into the legislation, if that is the way that the Government wishes to do it. 
The Government has decided also not to increase unemployment and sickness benefits for children under the age of 1 8 years. The argument of justification for this action that I have seen in another place and in public is that Labor did not increase these benefits in its last Budget. Therefore, apparently for ever and ever, these benefits are to stay the same. When Labor failed to increase these benefits last year, we gave our reasons, none the least of which was that we felt that the benefit last year was getting very close to the award wage at that level. There was concern. I believe in the principle that children under the age of 1 8 years should receive a lesser benefit. I do not believe, as one member of the Government from his statement in the other House apparently believes, that these children are the responsibility of their parents and should not receive any benefits at all. If benefits of this type are to be fully indexed, we see the only way of doing this with a conservative government in power is to write that requirement into the legislation because, on the basis of the past record of coalition governments in this country, there is no guarantee that these benefits will ever be increased again. 
I believe that the failure to deal with this problem is another example of the Government's hang-up with dole bludgers and dole cheats. The unemployment rate is now higher than it has been since the 1930s. That fact has been repeated  ad nauseam  in this place. The Budget papers contain misleading figures including estimates that next year the level of unemployment benefits will drop by $49m. At this time, unemployment and total unemployment benefits are much greater than they were last year and will obviously continue to rise. In the first 3 months of this financial year, the Government paid benefits to over 70 000 more people than the Labor Government paid in the first 3 months of last financial year. This is despite the fact that a concerted campaign has been conducted to reduce the number of people receiving unemployment benefits and to crack down on what the Government claims are masses of dole bludgers in the community. Despite this crackdown- even complained of the other day, I noticed, by members of the church- unemployment benefits are running at a much higher rate. The burden of unemployment is falling on the young. It shows no sign of decreasing. Even the decline revealed in the seasonally adjusted figures cannot hide the fact that school leavers will not be paid benefits for 2 months or 3 months over Christmas. 
We must be sure that this potential mobile section of our community is not anchored to Australian homes by a continual neglect of the unemployment benefits paid to them. Recently we heard a Minister mouth pious words about dole bludgers and the work ethic and claim that the dole being paid is destroying the work ethic in this country. This low benefit apparently is bringing this country to its knees. It is about time that the Government forgot about its hang-up concerning dole bludgers, stopped stigmatising the unemployed, stopped abusing them and, as well as giving a reasonable benefit and maintaining that benefit, produced policies and work schemes to cut down on the problem itself. 
The final paragraph of our amendment refers to the new income test- the change from an income and assets test to a pure income test. The Minister, in her second reading speech, quoted from the Henderson report in justification of the change. Professor Henderson's view, which I share, is that the present means test is administratively difficult, is difficult for the community to understand and is unnecessarily tedious for those who administer the Act and for those who apply for benefits. We have, and we admit we have, administrative difficulties and anomalies in the present form of means test. Professor Henderson pointed out that in changing to a pure income test some method, either a capital gains tax or some assessment of the worth of capital gains, would have to be used to remove inequities from any new system of this type. It seems to us that the scope for lurks and perks in this area by people with large capital holdings who are able to transfer them to relatives and receive some support in return, is boundless. We do not think it is assisting the situation to allow this sort of thing to happen. 
The Government, in another of its many clear promises, said it would not reduce the value of pensions received by present beneficiaries. Yet in introducing this new income test it has created great disturbance among one group of people in particular, that is, the people on superannuation. In an area such as this, which is generally considered fairly complicated by people, in an area which I would not have thought would have received much more publicity than any other, I have been surprised at the number of telegrams that I have received from people in this group. I know that others, too have received them. I have received not only letters from organisations- I have received plenty of those- and letters that were obviously inspired by organisations and written by organisations, which are the sort of letters that all of us receive on contentious issues, but also letters from people in odd places all over the country who have sat down, have done their sums and have found that they will be worse off. 
-I will provide for  Senator Baume  the best examples that I can- the ones which were provided by the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service. If they are in the pile that I have with me I will give them to the honourable senator. If not, I will give them to him later. I do not think  Senator Baume  is denying this fact. I hope that he and I will not be affected, but many people are affected. It is surprising to these people, I believe, that the 
Coalition, when previously in government, introduced the system of capitalisation of superannuation  which gave  this benefit to people who took out superannuation. I understand the system was introduced to encourage superannuation schemes, to encourage what the Government likes to call self help. It seems from the letters which these people have written that they have tended to look carefully at their future and have assisted themselves by taking out superannuation. This, I understood, was what the present Government's policy was all about. 
I think the main reason they are upset is that they fund without any warning, certainly in any previous Government announcements or policies, suddenly this new scheme which will cut their income is introduced. I know the Government has made provision for the freezing of pensions so that actual income at this moment will not suddenly drop on 25 November. That freezing will also apply to pensions, at least through May and November of next year and, in some cases, much more. Although it is hard to get exact figures from any government publication, it seems from the estimates of the Research Service of the Library that there may be anything from 24 000 to 30 000 of these people. Other estimates which I have seen indicate that there may be 40 000 to 50 000 of these people. These people are surprised and disturbed at this sudden reversal of the Government's policy. 
I believe it is important to explain to people what is going on. I believe it is important to give people some warning. I believe it is important that if we intend to reduce the disposable income of a sizable section of the community- a concerned section of the community- we should let them know what is going on and the reasons il is being done. Honourable senators opposite should not make statements that people really will not be affected and that no one will have a cut in his disposable income for the next couple of years because of the new scheme. It seems to us that this zeal for cuts in expenditure, this failure to show concern for people, was shown in previous legislation. It was shown in the 2 attempts to change the Medibank legislation. It was shown in the attempt to remove the funeral benefit for pensioners. It was shown in the Government's action in wiping out the subsidised pharmaceutical benefits. It was also shown in the Government's removal at very short notice of drugs from the pensioner pharmaceutical list. It was shown in the cuts in finance for aged persons accommodation. I believe that all those are examples of the double talk that has been indulged in, particularly by the Prime Minister who promised continuously that no one's income would be cut, no one would be worse off by government changes, and that the changes would reform things, that the changes would bring the needy into the scheme and that the changes would be the result of planning. I find little example or evidence of cohesive planning. I find some reluctance to use the information already available, unless that information can be used in a gimmicky sort of way or unless that information can be used to cut expenditure of this Government, no matter who is affected. 
The Opposition is disturbed at the penchant for setting up secret inquiries which look at aspects of health and welfare and which do not report to this Parliament. Decisions are made as a result of these inquiries. We do not get adequate explanations of these decisions, except that it is necessary to cut government expenditure. We do not believe this is the way to develop a rational and sensible system of social security. We do not see this as the way to improve the system which members on both sides know needs reforming, needs improving, needs rationalising. I think the Government should take note of the amendment. I think the Government should consider the views of those people in the community who are disturbed by the sorts of changes that have been going on not only in this kind of legislation but in the activities of the Department and the activities of the Commonwealth Employment Service as well as the attitude to people on unemployment benefits, particularly the people receiving the supporting mother's benefit. The Opposition is also disturbed at the disregard of benefits such as the supplementary benefits and others which are of help to the poorer people in the community. 
We support the increase in the handicapped children's allowance. We have said this many times before, particularly in the Budget debate which is still going on in this place. Of course we support it. We introduced it. We do not think very much of statements that in the financial year 1974-75 the previous Government spent only $ 1.86m on this benefit and that in the financial year 1975-76 some $9m will be spent, without pointing out that the benefit was introduced half way through the financial year 1974-75. We think that sort of attention should have been paid to the other children's allowances. We ask the Government to reconsider the course it seems to have set itself. We ask the Government to think of the future in terms of social justice, unhindered by preconceived conservative doctrine. 1 commend the amendment to the Senate. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What estimates can be made of amounts saved in unemployment and sickness benefits (a) following the tightening of the work test in January 1976 until the the end of the 1975-76 financial year; (b) following the instruction to refuse benefits to school leavers until the beginning of the 1977 school year for the 1976-77 financial year; and (c) following the instruction to deny benefits to persons voluntarily leaving employment until they have been registered as unemployed for six weeks for the 1 976-77 financial year. 
How many persons registered for unemployment and not receiving benefit were in category 1 (c) on 30 June 1 976. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to the Bailey task force on health and welfare in respect of which  Senator Baume  asked a question earlier. I ask the Minister: In view of the fact that the findings of this task force will obviously affect State and local government, voluntary agencies, her own Department and the Department of Health, to say the least, and that any such recommendations based on the wide terms of reference of this task force will deeply affect the community, will she ask the Prime Minister whether the members of this Parliament and the public of this country can have made available to them both the recommendations of the task force and the reasons for those recommendations so that there can be some public debate before any Government decisions are made? 
-On behalf of  Senator Keeffe  I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
Extend the freeze on alienation of vacant Crown land in the Northern Territory. 
Give urgent consideration to amendments to the Northern Territory (Land Rights) Bill 1 976 to give effect to: 
The restoration of the role of land councils and the Land Commissioner. 
The removal of distinction between 'needs' and traditional claims. 
The re-introduction of the 1975 Land Rights Bill's provisions regarding mining. 
The withdrawal of power from the Northern Territory Assembly to make laws over sacred sites, permits and entry to pastoral properties. 
The control of all roads through Aboriginal land being held by the Aboriginal people themselves. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-On behalf of  Senator Button  I present the following petition from 125 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is it a fact that staff ceilings imposed by the Government have resulted in a worsening of the chronic staff shortages at repatriation hospitals? Has this rigid application of staff ceilings resulted in the Department of Veterans' Affairs sending patients to some private hospitals and paying the bills for those patients which, in some cases, are double the cost of patients in repatriation hospitals? Is it a fact that as a result the Hospital Employees Federation is imposing a ban on civilian patients in repatriation hospitals? Is the Government intending to do anything about the staff ceilings applied to repatriation hospitals to relieve the apparent difficulties? 
-The Senate is debating an urgency motion moved by  Senator Wriedt,  which states: 
That the Neilson plan form the basis for a Commonwealth initiative with all the States to reduce unemployment. 
That is all the motion says. In fact, it suggests that unemployment is a problem in this country. It suggests that unemployment is a very important problem in Tasmania and that for the first time a government in Australia- the Neilson Labor Government in Tasmania- has produced a plan to do something about it. This is something that the Federal Government has not done since it has been in power since December 1975. I have some sympathy for  Senator Rae's  situation this afternoon. As well as being a senator from Tasmania, he is, in fact, the campaign director for the State Liberal Party in the forthcoming State elections. The State Liberal Party has no one amongst its members or amongst its eleven or twelve full-time staff with sufficient intelligence to perform the task of director of its State campaign. I have some sympathy with  Senator Rae  for the job he has ahead of him. But perhaps it is to our advantage that we now have some idea of the sort of campaign we can expect in Tasmania some time between now and next May. 

 Senator Rae made a very interesting statement early in his speech this afternoon. He said that this debate is not a slanging match and that he was not attacking anybody. He then proceeded to blame the Tasmanian Government for the sinking of the  Blythe Star.  He made the disgraceful claim that the surplus in the State Budget was to be used for campaign funds for the Labor Party. He then attacked the Neilson plan consistently through his speech until about 10 minutes from the end when he picked up a piece of paper and said that the Neilson plan is not really the Neilson plan; it is the Bingham plan. He told us that the plan he was attacking all afternoon was, in fact, the plan of the leader of the Liberal Party in Tasmania. It was a good plan when it came from Bingham but it was a bad plan when it came from Neilson. He did not go into any details of the comparison between the 2 plans because he knows that the Neilson plan and the so-called Bingham plan are very different. 

 Senator Rae then went on to produce what I think should go down in this place as Rae's law on unemployment in Australia. The law goes like this: When Labor is in power federally, unemployment is a Federal issue. When the conservatives are in power federally, unemployment is a State issue. He pointed out, correctly, that unemployment in Tasmania is the worst in Australia. Nobody denies this. The figures are there to show it. Because of the nature of Tasmania, being an island State with transport problems and having small markets and all the other difficulties that all island states in the world have, it has, in my experience during the 16 years I have lived in Tasmania, always had a higher than average unemployment rate in this country. In fact, for many years, it used to vie with Western Australia and sometimes South Australia for the highest unemployment rate in Australia. This was during long periods of conservative Federal governments, lt again has the highest unemployment rate in Australia. But it is an interesting fact that from November 1974 to September 1975 when there was a Federal Labor government in this country Tasmania had an unemployment rate lower than the national average. From September 1975 to December 1975 it had an unemployment rate higher than the national average but not the highest unemployment rate in Australiaa distinction it did not achieve until June 1976, when the Liberal-Country Party Government had been in power some 6 to 7 months. The unemployment rate in Tasmania in the last couple of years has varied not with the presence of different State governments, it has varied with the presence of different Federal governments. I believe- every commentator in this country believes- that unemployment is essentially a national problem. When we have buoyant conditions we have high employment. When we do not have buoyant conditions we have high unemployment. 
In the election campaign of December 1975 the present Government knew all about unemployment. It knew exactly what to do about unemployment.  Mr Street,  in his election campaign statements, said: 'We have a 4-point plan. We will continue the Regional Employment Development scheme. We will introduce new retraining schemes. We will produce plans for local assistance for areas where unemployment is high and which, therefore, have the greatest need. We will introduce relocation assistance for people who are unemployed'. The only one of those 4 initiatives which has been brought in by the present Government is the relocation assistance scheme which, it is estimated, will benefit some 2000 people in Australia.  Mr Fraser  knew all about unemployment. He told us that when the Liberal-Country Party Government was returned there would be an immediate and a miraculous increase in business confidence in this country, resulting in a drop in the unemployment rate. He was even unwise enough to tell us that after 4 to 5 months of conservative government the number of unemployed in this community could be expected to drop by 200 000. Unemployment has continued to rise. Business confidence has not increased. 
During the election campaign there was mention of specific plans for Tasmania. These plans, I have no doubt in the world, were in the pipeline. These plans were considered by  Senator Rae  and others, and by  Mr Snedden  when he was Leader of the Opposition. We had continuous advertisements saying 'Liberals will increase jobs. We have specific plans for Tasmania, plans involving primary industry, tourism, transport, employment'. These were Federal plans. 
And freight equalisation. When the election campaign was on I, and other Labor people, said: 'Let us see these plans in writing'. We asked to see these plans that had been so long in preparation. We asked to see them written down to see what would be done for Tasmania. We were told that they were not printed because the election had come too soon, but they were in preparation. 
I have asked to see the plans since. I have inquired from the Parliamentary Library. I have even inquired from the Liberal Party. I have been consistently told, as I was 2 days ago, that they have not been printed. If they have, they have just been printed or  Senator Rae  may be hiding them for fear that someone may see them. I ask: 'What has happened to these plans? What has happened to Tasmania in this time? All these plans, all these promises, all these specific plans for Tasmania did not eventuate. We have not seen a plan since the election. When the Premier of Tasmania produces a plan and says to the Commonwealth Government: Here is a suggestion. We will do this, you can do that. Look at it. See what improvement you can make',  Mr Fraser  does not look at it. He sees the headlines in the paper and says: 'We are not interested in that'. 

 Senator Rae attacks the plan and says that it is no good, that it is disastrous. Then he claims that the plan is pinched from his Party. The logic of that sort of argument in this place is very difficult to understand. The sort of slanging and the sort of personal denigration that we have had of  Mr Neilson  this afternoon have at least given us warning of what we can expect in an election campaign between now and next May.  Mr Bingham  had a plan. When the last State Budget was presented he had a plan which embarrassed his Federal Ministers including, one day at question time,  Senator Carrick.  It certainly embarrassed one of his candidates in the State election, a distinguished Launceston banker, who no doubt has ambitions of being Treasurer of Tasmania if the Liberal Party should ever win in Tasmania. The Federal conservative parties and  Mr Robson  have continually and persistently attacked deficit budgeting as the cause of all our troubles. Deficit budgeting, in the words of  Mr 
Robson of Tasmania, is causing inflation.  Mr Lynch  spent all his time in this Parliament last year attacking deficit budgeting. This went on continually. When the Tasmanian Budget came out it had a surplus.  Mr Bingham  suggested that we should have a deficit budget of some $10m. I think it is about time the conservative opponents of the Tasmanian Labor Government got together and started to talk with one voice, started to produce plans that were coherent and started to produce plans that would help the State of Tasmania and that may well help the other States, because their Federal colleagues have not done so. 
The Tasmanian Government has been in power, as  Senator Rae  says, for 39 of the last 42 years. It has been in power for that time because it has the confidence of the people of Tasmania. It has been elected by the only electoral system in this country that cannot be gerrymandered. It spent 3 years in Opposition when  Senator Rae's  colleagues were in government. They were thrown out and the Labor Party returned with the biggest majority that has ever been held by any government in Tasmania. 
I am not suggesting, nor is  Mr Neilson,  nor did  Senator Wriedt,  that this plan is the panacea for all this country's economic ills. I am not suggesting that we agree with everything in this plan. What I am suggesting is that this plan should be considered because it is the only plan that has been produced in this country since December 1 975 by a government that is involved with the problems about which we are talking. This plan should be considered, discussed and examined, not dismissed out of hand by  Mr Fraser  and  Senator Rae.  The Tasmanian Government of  Mr Neilson  has produced a suggested plan which involves Federal-State co-operation. We understood that was what the new federalism was all about. The Neilson Government has had to produce this plan largely because of the failure of the present Federal conservative Government to carry out the plans that it promised it would carry out. It has failed not only to carry out its promises but it has compounded its failure by deliberately encouraging unemployment in this country as a means of attacking inflation and as a futile means of suppressing union activity. 
The unemployment rate has increased to the extent that the Federal Government has ceased to produce seasonally adjusted figures, for fear of embarrassing itself. It has excluded school leavers from eligibility for unemployment benefit in December of this year and January of next year, apparently to cut down on the number of unemployed people in this country. It has conducted a campaign against unemployed people in this country by calling them dole bludgers and by making it difficult for them to get employment. It has done everything to increase unemployment, to cut Government expenditure and to cut capital expenditure so that there are 1800 fewer building apprentices in New South Wales this year. It has not produced a plan to increase business confidence. It has not produced a plan to produce employment. It has not produced a plan to increase capital expenditure so that employment can be encouraged.  Mr Neilson  has produced a plan. Honourable senators opposite may not agree with it, but I ask them to consider it or even modify it. I ask them not to just sneer at it and indulge in a slanging match. They should try to do what  Mr Neilson  has done and solve the problem. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I am pleased to support  Senator Harradine  's urgency motion concerning the problem which has arisen at Queenstown. I have found this debate interesting in 2 regards, in listening to the 2 speakers from the Government side this afternoon. I thought that we were to have a debate on the problems of the people of Queenstown, the problems of the employees of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Ltd, and what we as a Parliament and the Government might be able to do for them.  Senator Harradine  spoke for half an hour and listed carefully the problems that are arising at Queenstown. He listed carefully the dates of the approaches by the Mount Lyell company to the Government. He summarised carefully some of the recommendations in the Industries Assistance Commission report. 
He was followed by  Senator Withers,  who did not seem at all concerned about the people of Queenstown or the people of Mount Lyell. I remind honourable senators that the first thing  Senator Withers  did was by implication to accuse  Senator Harradine  of staging this debate for the purposes of the election of the State Labor Government.  Senator Harradine  smiles.  Senator Townley  smiles. I am not surprised. That was an extraordinary accusation to make about  Senator Harradine  who found out about this case on Thursday and went immediately to Queenstown to see what he could do about it. He is now accused of staging a debate and requesting the Senate to express its concern for the people of Queenstown and Mount Lyell for the purposes of re-electing the State Labor Government. Then  Senator Withers  said, quite contrary to what  Senator Rae  said, that he could not see why this urgency motion was being moved, because for a long time the Government had been aware of what was happening at Mount Lyell and could see this situation coming. The Government's spokesman on this subject in this House,  Senator Withers,  said that the Government could see this coming for a long time. Yet now 400 people- 40 per cent of the work force of this mining companyhave been given notice, and the Government still has not done anything.  Senator Withers  then proceeded to quote endless figures to show that the last Federal Labor Government was responsible for all the problems of the 
Mount Lyell mine and that those problems were compounded by the policies of the State Labor Government.  Senator Rae  then told us that the company running the mine is in cahoots with the State Government and that this is a political stunt to re-elect the State Government. I ask honourable senators opposite to get together and make up their minds about what is happening at Queenstown. If they can make up their minds, perhaps then they can decide what can be done to help those 400 people- perhaps there will be more later- who have been put out of work. 
Some of the things which  Senator Rae  said about this multinational company may well be true. I questioned and trade unionists in Queenstown have questioned the policy of the company over the last 3 years of encouraging its employees to buy the company houses. But I believe that the malicious and vicious personal attack on  Mr Sawyer,  the general manager of the mine, was unnecessary and was not supported by any evidence. Remember that  Senator Withers  told us that the mine was suffering from the Tasmanian Labor Government's evil actions.  Senator Rae  told us that the mining company was in cahoots with the State Labor Government. I can understand  Senator Rae's  sensitivity because a report in the  Examiner  of 6 November had this to say: 

 Mr Sawyer also attacked the Federal Government's unsympathetic attitude towards Mount Lyell ...  Mr Sawyer  said that State Government had done a great job for Mount Lyell. It sent Ministers here yesterday, and  Mr Neilson  has personally taken a great interest in our problems over the past 1 8 months - not 6 days.  Mr Sawyer  was reported as saying: 
 I wish I could say the same for the Federal Government. 
We have asked it for assistance on a number of occasions, and there's just no consideration forthcoming'. 
I believe that  Senator Harradine  listed the number of occasions on which the company has approached the Federal Government for help. 
-Mr Groom could not remember a conversation that took place 2 hours ago, let alone 6 days or 6 weeks ago. I point out that Queenstown, like all mining communities, is a cohesive, socially knit community which sticks together. This social .cohesion is made all the more important and all the more strong by its isolation. Despite  Senator Withers'  remarks, Queenstown and the Mount Lyell mining company have a record second to none in this country as far as industrial disputes are concerned. 
The unions involved in the Mount Lyell mine get together, talk together and bury their differences. 
Last Sunday morning I happened to chair a meeting of the combined mine unions associated with the Mount Lyell mining company. The unions involved included the Australian Workers Union and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which in Tasmania in the past have been known to have differences, the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association of Australia, the Electrical Trades Union of Australia, the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia and the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia- unions which in the past have not been noted for getting together as well as they should. But at that meeting there was a unanimity of opinion, there was careful discussion, and there were no fights and no arguments. They were concerned, as the unions in mining towns generally and in Queenstown in particular are, to look after the 400 people in Queenstown who have been removed from their work. 
This disaster in Queenstown- that is what it is- was unexpected. We understand from  Senator Rae  that it was unexpected by the Government, although we understand from  Senator Withers  that the Government has seen this coming for a long time. It certainly was unexpected by the workers at Mount Lyell, and we have the word of  Mr Sawyer  and  Sir Brian  Massy-Greene that it was unexpected by the company. If  Senator Rae  has evidence to the contrary he should produce that evidence and point out exactly where the company had been deluding the Government, the workers and the people of Tasmania. This disaster that has happened to this mining town will affect not only Queenstown and the Mount Lyell mining company but also the railways which take the ore, the business people in the town, towns as far away as Burnie and the whole north-west of Tasmania. We are concerned. I will concede that  Senator Rae  too is concerned, but I will not concede that in the way in which  Senator Withers  spoke this afternoon he showed any concern for these people. Instead of showing concern he spent half an hour rubbishing the previous Labor Government, rubbishing the State Government and carrying on as though the State election had started and the election campaign was on. 

 Senator Rae dragged the Mount Lyell company into it and accused it of playing politics with this issue. The mining industry is an uncertain industry, as are many other industries in this time of world economic trouble. We have had industries that have got into trouble in Tasmania before. In fact, when we were in government we had difficulties with Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd when it could not get rid of its paper. The Government of which I was a supporter decided that part of the paper on which the telephone books in this country were printed should be purchased from APPM to help with its overstocking and a loan was made to APPM. This may not be the best way to solve problems in normal economic times but these are not normal economic times in this country or in the world and we will not have them for a long time. Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australia Ltd also had difficulties and came to the Government and got short term help. Employees retrenched fom the textile industry, partly as a result of tariff reductions, were also assisted. These were short term solutions but were aimed at helping the people who were affected and at alleviating the evil social effects of situations like this. 
Here we have a mining company that is an efficient mining company and one whose workers are loyal to it and who demonstrate this loyalty by their low record of industrial disputes. It is a minng company which has ore reserves of some thirty or forty years. It is a mining company which has a future. Yet we have a downturn in the world copper price bringing difficulties for this company, and all that  Senator Harradine  is asking and all that members of the Opposition are asking is that some help be given to tide these people who are suffering from the disastrous social effects of being off work over the problem they are in and to tide this town over the problem it is in. I have no glib solutions and shall present no glib solutions, nor do I suggest that  Senator Harradine  or  Senator Devitt  presented any. It is up to governments which have at their fingertips experts to investigate this sort of problem. It is up to governments which have at their fingertips the information to sort out this problem. It is not up to me as an individual or up to  Senator Harradine  or anyone else to solve this problem in a glib way on his feet in this chamber. 
If the Government has been aware that this has been coming for a long time it should be prepared to solve this problem. If the Government has not been investigating this problem for a long time it should be willing to come up with short term solutions to tide these people over until it has sorted out the problem. I have no personal objection to  Senator Rae  's motion to set up a Senate select committee to investigate this issue but in view of the record of Senate select committees in the past, including the King Island shipping inquiry and the three or five Senate select committees on Tasmania's transport problems, I have no great faith in the ability of Senate select committees to look into this problem. If  Senator Rae's  aim is that the select committee should look into the son of accusations he has made about this multi-national company, I am very much in favour of that sort of solution. If  Senator Rae's  accusations are true I believe that the company should be brought to book about them and I will be interested to see what sort of solution  Senator Rae  has if he finds out that his accusations are true. 
However, the immediate problems of this town are the social problems affecting the miners and technical people who are being put off work. The immediate task is to remove the anxiety and the social problems which will inevitably arise if the Government does nothing. I offer no glib solutions. This motion expresses concern and asks for government action. The Government has the facilities at hand to find a solution to the problem, even a long term solution, but if the time is not available to sort out the long term solution I suggest that the answer is a short term solution to tide the people over until the Government has made up its mind. Then the people of Queenstown will have removed from their shoulders this anxiety which undoubtedly is affecting them now. I commend the motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the decision earlier in the year by the Government not to pay unemployment benefit to school leavers over the long vacation. Is it a fact that 1 S November has been set as the cut-off point beyond which school leavers will not receive unemployment benefit except in exceptional circumstances? Will this not penalise those students who stay on to complete their final year properly? Also, has this policy been extended to university graduates, meaning that university graduates will be unable to receive unemployment benefit until February in the same way as school leavers? Was this decision ever announced by the Government? 
-Does the Minister for Social Security remember that in November 1973 the then Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  revealed to the Parliament that he had discovered that a large number of organisations, including police departments, State departments and others, had access to information from the personal files in that department? He also announced that access in the future was to be refused to those organisations and the matter was referred to a privacy committee. Is access now again widely available to police departments and others? Which organisations have access to departmental files and in what circumstances do they have access? On whose instructions has the situation changed? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the answer she gave to a question I asked last week on unemployment benefit for students. She said that undergraduates not returning to full time studies by abandoning or deferring their courses would not be eligible for the unemployment benefit until such time as enrolment for next year has closed and they have not enrolled. As the last day of enrolment at the Australian National University is 24 December this year- other universities have set similar dates- and a student not reenrolling would therefore be eligible for the unemployment benefit, one would think, on that day or at least after a 7-day waiting period, why are students who are quitting their studies receiving letters from the Director-General of the Department of Social Security saying that they will not be eligible for benefits until 1 February next year, that is, approximately one month later? 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to speak briefly to these 8 Bills before the Senate and to support of the amendment moved by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt.  I feel I must refer to the conversation which I had with  Senator Jessop  to which he referred concerning the number of medical graduates in this country and the number of graduates particularly in the State of South Australia. I agree with him that it looks as though in future there will be a problem. I certainly do not agree with the solutions that he has put forward. I believe we must question very seriously in the future the number of medical schools we will need and the number of medical graduates we will need in the years to come particularly with the potentiality of a population which is growing much slower than it has been and which in fact in some places has reached zero growth. The main problem in respect of medical graduates in this country is not the number of graduates but their distribution. They are distributed in the big cities. They are distributed in the big towns and within those cities and towns they tend to be distributed in the most wealthy areas, in the most comfortable areas. 
One of the problems that face doctors and medical graduates is that their education is gained in the cities, and is specialist orientated. They have no exposure to rural practice, smalltown practice, to country practice at all. They hear only the bad things, about the difficulties of practising in the country. They have no encouragement to go there at all. Often when they get there they have great difficulty in getting relief and this is the very great problem which faces the medical profession and medical health care delivery in this country in general. That is the sort of problem that has to be solved. I suggest that in view of the record of the medical profession and in view of the record of professional associations in this country in general the Australian Medical Association, although it should be consulted, is certainly not the body to look at this problem and to produce solutions to it. The problem is going to have to be faced by the whole community. It will have to be faced by governments in this community because governments make decisions in these areas. 
It always has been I agree with you and it always will be. It has not only been metropolitan controlled, but it has been specialist conrolled. Some of us in this place were rural general practitioners just before we became members of the Parliament and some of us grew up in rural general practices as I understand it and until we overcome those very difficulties I was talking of we will always have this great mal-distribution of medical care and medical personnel in this country. But that is by the by. 
I listened to the debate with interest. I have listened to the figures that have been bandied across the chamber. I have listened to those on both sides who are more expert than I putting their points of view as to which government has had the better education policy, which government has spent more on education, which government has spent that amount of money more wisely. But I think if I speak in general terms there are certain things I do not think can be denied. Before the Labor Party came to office in 1972 there was a great concern in this country for the lack of expenditure on education and the apparent lack of progress and planning and the lack of any idea of where we were going in education in this country. This concern was expressed by parents. It was expressed by teachers who complained of a lack of aids, both human and physical, and who complained of a lack of proper facilities. No one denies that situation exists. No one denies that that situation had a great influence on the 1 972 election. 
I do not believe that anyone can deny that the former Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  and the Government that was in power from 1972 to 1975 greatly changed the education system in this country. It established commissions that were very important. It increased expenditures which were necessary and which were necessarily large to make up for the neglect in education in the past. It increased funding and expenditure and the standard of state and independent schools at all levels in this country and I believe- I think everyone will concede this- it produced a vast improvement in the system. The fact that the present Government is continuing at about that increased level of expenditure- there have been cuts in some areas and there have been increases in some areas, but there has been no attempt as yet and I hope there will be no attempt in the future to drop the level of expenditure on education back to the percentage of the gross domestic product which applied before 1972-1 believe is further evidence of the justice and the need for the policies that were introduced by  Mr Beazley  and by the Labor Government. I do not think that can be denied. I think the present Government's actions bear that out. 

 Mr Beazley was the overseer of a new concept in education m this country. It was the concept of the establishment of national guidelines at all levels of education, the provision of adequate funds by the government best able to produce those funds- the Federal Government. I think the important concept that was introduced was the concept of funding to those schools and those institutions which were in greatest need, be they government schools or be they independent schools. One hopes that the reintroduction of per capita grants, so prominent in the statement of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  will not take us away fom this concept of need, this concept of getting some sort of equality of opportunity in education in this country. 
Of course there were mistakes. There had to be mistakes. There had to be mistakes in what was a revolution in education and a revolution in expenditure over those 3 years- over those two eighteen-month terms of government. It was a plan which had to make up for what we saw as a desperate need and the Government's establishment of expenditure at the same sorts of levels shows that the present Government accepts that that sort of need existed. Most of the examples of the so-called mistakes that I have heard put forward in debates in this Senate and in the other House have been the nitpicking examples of equipment going to the wrong schools, usually in a small country town or inappropriate equipment going to the wrong schools. This sort of nitpicking example is brought up all the dme and it will be brought up in any system which is changing rapidly, any system which is having a large amount of money spent on it according to need. It is better to make a few mistakes in areas like that than to neglect the whole system and deny our children a proper education. 
I believe there were mistakes in priority. I said in this place when my party was in office- I will come to this later- that I would have changed the priorities. I would have perhaps done something before something else was done, but government and government action is a system of sitting down, looking at the facts, listening to the applications that are made, looking at the areas where it is considered there is the greatest need and coming to a compromise situation which we can best work out. 
In the case of technical education I have said in this place that the Government in office before 1972 and perhaps the Government which I supported should have put technical education on a slighty higher level but as I will come to later there is a reason why we could not go ahead as rapidly with technical and further education as we could with the other forms of tertiary education, namely universities and colleges of advanced education. 
Before I do that I would like to talk generally for a moment about the sort of things that has been talked about in education over the last few months. It is the sort of thing that has been talked about in other areas such as social security and health. This is of very real concern in the communityof concern to both sides of this Parliament and it is whether we are in fact spending our money wisely and getting the results we want. It is an evaluation of what we are doing. Evaluation in education, I believe, is very difficult. There are some people who judge the success of an education system on the ability of the few people they come across to spell correctly or to count correctly or to do differential calculus correctly. There are some who judge it by the degree of acceptance of the products of that education system in the society in which they live. This has gone on since time immemorial. People have judged the products of the education system by the degree with which the students or the graduates accept the status quo in our society. 
There are those who judge it by manners, by degree of articulation or the erudition of the products of the system. For some months in this country a series of glib articles has appeared in newspapers and magazines referring to educational shame and educational crisis. In fact they are going on at the moment. The articles talk about lack of literacy, lack of numeracy and lack of knowledge and use all sorts of parameters. In my view all these judgments are subjective judgments because in none of these articles can we find objective criteria against which the authors ' views can be measured. 
I give  Senator Carrick  credit that he pointed out during question time one day in this place that through time immemorial, from the time of the ancient Greeks and probably before that, the elders have complained about the faults of the young, about their behaviour, their spelling, their manners and everything else. At the moment the complaint seems to be more about their length of hair. An example of some of the sort of stupid and glib comment we are seeing in the general Press today was the comment that was pointed out by so many people. Some gentlemen said that 50 per cent of the students aged 12 in a certain State of Australia are below average in their reading ability. If 50 per cent of them were not below average one would wonder how the average was worked out. 
-I would expect that 50 per cent would be below average. I am not talking about the mean- 49.9 per cent, if you like. I believe that where possible we should carry out evaluation in education the same as we should carry it out in the field of social security, in the field of medicine and in every other field of activity. But it must be based on objective measurement and known standards. Not all areas of education are able to be judged on objective measurements and known standards. The standards that are used must not be based on the philosophical, ideological, moral or any other prejudices of the people in power or the people influencing the education system. I think we would all do well to look with a jaundiced eye at the glib sort of articles appearing at the moment. I am not saying that there is no concern about the education system in this country; I am not saying that there is no reason for any concern about the education system in Australia; but the way we evaluate a system and the way we get the answers, if there are answers, Will not be by glib articles in newspapers or magazines or anything else, written quickly, full of cliches, full of 'good hard news' as it is called, full of eye-catching phrases which are of no assistance to any of us in debate and which can mislead considerably. 
There are those people in the community who have a genuine concern about education. I have said that I have always been concerned about where we place technical education in this country. I expressed the view when we were in Government that perhaps technical education had too low a priority. But I realise that one of the reasons why technical education had a low priority- apart from the usual reasons in the community that universities and later on colleges of advanced education were the prestige institutions, that people who went to them generally did not get their hands dirty and all the other reasons that we know about- was that when an investigation was held into technical education in Australia and the Kangan Report came out, as in so many reports we found that he asked many difficult questions. In many cases he asked more questions that he had answers for. This is not meant in any critical way at all. This inquiry was really the first close look at technical education in this community. 
In some States we had no idea of the size of the problem. I can remember that in one State there was great difficulty and I do not think the people there ever found out exactly how many technical and further education students there were. In some States there were no real plans about where technical and further education would go. But we did know that the equipment was inadequate in most States, that the buildings were inadequatein come cases they were highly dangerousin some States and that technical education had been left behind. In a society like ours this is a serious and difficult situation. It is going to need the future builders, the people who maintain our transport systems, the people who maintain our energy systems, the people who build our houses and our buildings and the people who repair our houses and the multitude of machinery that we use in them. 
This is a very difficult situation. It is even more difficult when we have, as we have at the moment, an economic recession which will end some time, although some of us do not know when. Some of us have doubts that it will end. When we do have an economic recovery we will have a shortage  of the technical  people who will be needed to boost that recovery; if they are not there, if there is a shortage of them, it will mean that the technical assistance we need at that time will be more expensive under the supply and demand system we have. 
Of course there are difficulties in training technical personnel in Australia. There are difficulties in an apprenticeship system which originated a couple of centuries ago and of which relics exist at the moment. Australia has to come to grips with that system. It is utterly wrong for  Senator Jessop  to say that the unions will not come to grips with that system. Many of the leading unionists in this country spend a lot of time talking about how they can get away from the rigid apprenticeship system they have. Of course they are concerned about maintaining the standards in their industry. They need some reassurance that their members will not be exploited, that their new members will not be of a low standard, that their present members will not suffer by some change in the system. But they want to cooperate and they will co-operate. It seems that the situation is difficult because industry, unions and government until recently have not got together on this problem. But we can get together on the problem. We can do it and we must do it. If we do not, we will be hogtied by an archiac system which has outlived its usefulness and which is not keeping up with the modern changes in industry. 
In technology and in technical education in general as a result of the various reports on education we do know more. We can plan more. We need to give technical education a higher priority. Therefore the Opposition is disappointed that the increase in this area of spending was not as great as we would have liked and was not as great as I believe the people in technical education would have expected. One can expect that the universities, the schools and the colleges of advanced education in some way would have the increase in their level of expenditure level out. I do not believe we can say that about the technical schools. I do not believe that exhorting the States to spend more on technical education and getting away from the very real federal responsibility is worthwhile. I do not think it will assist us and it will leave us lacking the very people we need in the future. This does not mean that I advocate necessarily a cutting back in the levels of expenditure on general education courses, of courses in the liberal arts. I believe these should be expanded but not expanded in the rigid institutions in which they frequently exist now. They must be made attractive and accessible to those people in an age when we have increasing leisure, when we will continue to have increasing leisure that can be utilised to improve the life style of the people of Australia and the people of the world. 
The concept of continuing education through the lifetime, I believe, is a good one. It believe it needs assistance and encouragement. It particularly needs assistance and encouragement in a world that is dominated by television and other forms of instant pleasure. It is dominated by the tendency for people to expect to get their pleasure and leisure easily. It will not come easily. It will be assisted if we can expand this area of education. 
If I may be excused, I would like to introduce a local issue- a procedure very strange for Tasmanian senators. I feel obliged to talk about a specific problem in Tasmania because it was brought up in another place. I believe I should balance the picture that was given in the other place. I refer to the situation of post-secondary education in general in Tasmania, in particular the College of Advanced Education in Tasmania. Previous Ministers for Education, in both the Federal Government and the State Government, had been made aware by many members of Parliament, by many citizens of Tasmania and by members of both sides of this House that there seemed to be a problem. A situation was created in good faith. A college of advanced education was developed in Tasmania. The head campus, the campus where the authorities were, the controlling campus was in southern Tasmania. Another campus was in northern Tasmania, at Newnham. The northern college, it seemed to us, was unnecessarily subservient to the southern one. It was unnecessarily inhibited in its progress by the fact that the centre of control was away from the campus in the north. This was not the intention when the college was set up. 
It was felt by some of us that because of its lack of autonomy, because of its distance from the main campus, because of the natural tendency, about which I heard  Senator Martin  speak in this place on other occasions, of some people in education to indulge in empire building- a tendency that is not confined to education, a tendency that I believe is probably worse in medicine and even occurs in Parliament - 
-That was another occasion, not this debate. It seemed to some of us that the situation may be getting out of hand, that there was considerable disquiet. To get an unbiased assessment of what was going on, to get a dispassionate look at the situation, both Ministers for Education established a committee of inquiry under Professor Karmel into postsecondary education in Tasmania. Some of us thought that this was important. Both parties agreed that a maritime college should be established at or about the College of Advanced Education and that this may be the basis of a specialised course around which an autonomous college could arise, in the way that the University of New England and other universities grew. 
The Karmel Committee, consisting of expert, dispassionate people, met, considered the problems at length and suggested solutions to problems about which some of us had talked. It suggested that the disquiet was soundly based and that the situation in Tasmania, leading to a concentration of tertiary courses in Hobart, in one section of a State that is decentralised, was unreal. It recommended, among other things, a transfer of the centre of advanced education from Hobart to the north. It made other recommendations concerned with the availability of correspondence courses. The report was later looked at by  Mr Cosgrove,  a distinguished Tasmanian, concerning the application of the report. It was modified by him, but the basic principles remained. The Committee's general principles were upheld by both parties- Labor and Liberal. What happened then has happened previously. It is something which all of us have to bear. It is a salutory lesson to those who have to deal with the education establishment. 
All hell broke loose. People wrote letters and produced pamphlets. There were scurrilous outbursts. Members of Parliament were lobbied and abused. I am not saying that any of this was illegal or even immoral. People did everything to prevent the implementation of the report. The Australian Union of University Students came into the act. It sent its education officer to Hobart. He came to Hobart, spoke to people, made a Press statement that night condemning the Karmel proposals, then came to Launceston to get an unbiased look at the situation. This sort of situation always arises. Both political parties at Federal and State level have agreed to the principles of the report. However, the issue has become complicated by what I consider are unreasonable statements by 2 members of the House of Representatives who represent electorates in southern Tasmania. I know they have their electorates to look after. I know that tub thumping and parochialism are important. However I trunk they should look at the report as dispassionately as their colleagues have done. I believe that they should look at the report and see the reasons for the recommendations which have been accepted by both State and Federal governments- the present State and Federal governments. I think they should realise that the committee, an outside, expert committee, looked dispassionately at the problem, gave its reasons for the decisions and set out its reasons carefully. 
Every submission which I have seen which is against the proposals was self-seeking and had to do with local factors alone. I praise those rational men of both political parties, including  Mr Batt, Senator Rae,  the present Minister for Education  Senator Carrick,  who looked at the problem and made their judgments after a dispassionate look at the problem. I accept the concern of those people who for genuine reasons were concerned at the original concept of Karmel of transferring what were essentially CAE courses to a university. That has been corrected. I believe that those who take a blind, parochial view and who adopt the blind principle 'what we have we hold at any cost ', without looking at the facts, do none of us a good service and certainly do not make the future of education planning in this community any easier. They certainly make it very difficult to get a rational and unemotional debate on the problem. They could have- I am glad they have not- destroyed a good report and a good plan. 
I have given my reasons, by referring to technical and further education, for supporting the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt.  It is an expression of concern. It is an expression of our genuine concern that more assistance will be needed in the technical field in future, both to provide us with the technicians to keep our society going and, if I can extend it, to provide the increasing pleasure and the increasing use of the concept of continuing education which I believe have been well established in this country. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
-As this Bill is more or less a consequential Bill designed to bring provisions for civilian employees of the United States naval communication station into line with those with which we have just dealt, the Opposition offers no opposition. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bills reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have 2 amendments which relate to clause 2 and Schedule 1 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976. Clause 2 provides: 
This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 September 1976. 
Schedule 1 reads: 

<graphic href="070232197611181_48_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070232197611181_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

I ask for leave to move together the 2 amendments which have been circulated in my name. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it true, as reported, that the shortly to be released fourth main report of Professor Fitzgerald on the educational aspects of poverty in Australia recommends that the unemployment benefit be paid to school leavers immediately they indicate they will not be returning to full time studies and are available for permanent employment? Bearing in mind that Professor Henderson's first main report recommended that the 7-day waiting period before unemployment benefits are paid should be abolished, this means that 2 concerned experts in the field of poverty in Australia have recommended a line and an approach completely contrary to the Government's present policy. Will the Government consider the recommendations of Professor Henderson and the alleged recommendations of Professor Fitzgerald to avoid the discrimination against poor families which have school leavers which occurs under the present Government's policy? 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
Leave out ' 1 September 1 976 ', insert ' 1 June 1 976 '. 
The effect of that amendment is to move back the date of the commencement of the operation of the Bill from 1 September 1976 to 1 June 1976. The purpose of doing that is to provide for further compensation to be paid to those who have been affected by the delay. In moving that amendment, I should like to borrow an argument used by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her reply to the second reading debate on this legislation. Under the legislation we are involved with annual increases in the compensation payments which have been made ever since the legislation was first introduced. These increases have been regular, even following the change of government in 1972 and prior to that. As I pointed out in my speech during the second reading debate, an election was held in early 1953, and in April 1954 legislation was introduced which provided for a commencement date of 1 January 1954 to make up for the delay which had occurred because of the election. We do not feel that we can reasonably move an amendment to provide for retrospectivity to 1 January 1976. However, the increased payments in this legislation are to be made on the basis of increases in the minimum wage up to 1 June. 
We believe it is perfectly reasonable to do what the Liberal-Country Party Government did in 1954, that is, to move the date of commencement back 3 months. We believe that is consistent with what was done in 1954. We believe, of course, that it would be more consistent to move the commencement date back to 1 January; but that would involve complications and, I admit, a fair amount of expense for the Government. Therefore we believe the amendment I have moved is a reasonable one. We believe that that amendment, which moves back to 1 June the date of the commencement of the operation of the Bill and therefore the date from which the increases apply, is in the spirit of what has happened in relation to this legislation in the past. It would give some semblance of justice to the people who are paid under this legislation. It would overcome some of the difficulties which have been created because of the delays in dealing with the legislation. Those delays resulted from 2 causes. The first was the Government's delay in introducing the legislation. The second was the Government's delay in bringing the legislation on for debate following its introduction. We believe that there are justice and logic in the amendment. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have 3 amendments which relate to clauses 4, 5 and 7 of the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill 1976. Those clauses, in part or in whole, read: 4. ( 1 ) Section sb of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) the figures '$20,000' and substituting the figures '$25,000 '. 
The amendment made by sub-section (1) applies in relation to an injury of a kind specified in sub-section 5b (4), (5) or (6) of, or in Schedule 3 to, the Principal Act as amended by this Act that is sustained after the commencement of this section, whether the accident or disease that caused the injury occurred before or after that commencement. 
Section 5d of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) the figures '$20,000' and substituting the figures '$25,000'. 
The First Schedule to the Principal Act is amended(a) by omitting clause (i) of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph ( 1 ) and substituting the following clause- 
if the seaman leaves any dependants wholly dependent upon his earnings, the sum of $25,000 and, in addition, in respect of each person who was a child at the date of the death of the seaman and was, at the date of the injury or the date of the death of the seaman, wholly or mainly dependent upon the earnings of the seaman, a weekly payment, from the date of the death, of the sum of $10;'; 
I ask for leave to move together amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 circulated in my name. 
I would like to take up a point that was introduced by  Senator Wheeldon  and in fact mentioned by all of us in the second reading debate, and that is the problem of assessing the levels of payment, firstly, on increases in the minimum wage and, secondly, on comparative values of similar benefits which are paid in the States. Some benefits have been increased by 40 per cent, which is about the increase in the minimum wage. Other benefits have been increased by only 25 per cent. There is a great diversity in the generosity, if that is the right word, of the State benefits. The benefits in some States, such as Tasmania, and I believe Western Australia is the other one, are fairly high compared with those in other States. I think the benefits paid in Victoria are the lowest. I speak from memory; I cannot put my hand on my note at the moment. I am interested in the fact that the Minister and the Government seem to feel that the Commonwealth is under some obligation not to get out of kilter with the States. There are injured people in every State. I think the Minister indicated that she was interested in a national compensation scheme. That seems to indicate that it would be desirable to have uniform rates of benefit throughout Australia. It seems to me to be ludicrous that the benefit a person is to receive depends on whether he is living in Tasmania, Western Australia or Victoria or somewhere else. When there is an increase of 40 per cent in one group of benefits and 25 per cent in another, it seems to me that the reason why the increase is only 25 per cent is that we do not want to upset the State governments or we do not want to upset the States. I do not think it is a matter of the Commonwealth, of necessity, being a pacesetter or anything like that. I just do not see the reason for this great concern about what happens in the States, particularly some States which are notorious for not introducing what most people in this country would consider to be legislation which would provide proper benefits for injured workers. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Amendment Bill 
The Bill. 
-The Senate is debating the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1976, the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill 1976 and the United States Naval Cummunication Station (Civilian Employees) Amendment Bill 1976. These Bills are conveniently being debated together. The Opposition has no desire to delay unduly the passage of these Bills. However, we will be moving an amendment to the second reading and in the Committee stage we will be moving amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill. The Opposition believes that these Bills have been delayed quite unnecessarily. They were first introduced into this chamber on 19 August. As a result of the delay many employees of the Commonwealth Government or former employees of the Commonwealth Government who have been injured have suffered because their increase in payments has been delayed. 
-I suggest that the Government has held them up in this instance. I also suggest that the Government has held them up in another way because these increases were due in November last year.  Senator Wheeldon,  the then Minister, announced in August last year that the increases would be granted. The Bills were drafted but because of some untoward events of which even  Senator Hall  has some memory the Bills did not come into the Parliament. In fact, the legislation providing for the increase in the payments under these Acts is approximately 12 months late. 
That is why, as  Senator Hall  says, we are always co-operative. We are willing to debate the Bills cognately. The proposed amendment to the motion for the second reading of these Bills refers to the general policy on compensation which my Party holds and the difference in the policies of the Opposition and the Government on the same matter. I therefore move: 
At the end of the motion, add but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should proceed forthwith with the introduction of a National Compensation scheme incorporating all Australian workers and providing for quarterly cost of living increases to benefits.' 
The Austraiian Labor Party, as I think everyone in this chamber realises, is committed to the introduction of a national compensation scheme, one which will cover automatically, without the complexities and expense of the present legal process, all injured persons in this country. Of course this could include any of us at any time. I do not intend to traverse the whole field and the whole story of national compensation and the attempts to introduce such schemes in Australia. The concept of such a universal scheme is not a novel one. In fact a conservative government in our nearby neighbouring country, New Zealand, introduced one some years ago which has been successful, which has not been challenged in that country and which is not likely to be challenged in that country. We have a wealth of information available to us in Australia from the reports of the Woodhouse Committee and the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and 
Legal Affairs which investigated this subject. Both committees reviewed vast amounts of evidence, both oral and written, and vast amounts of statistical information. As well as that, as I have pointed out, the New Zealand scheme is well established, is nearby and is well documented. 
I believe that the Government is restricted by its ideological blinkers from considering such a scheme as the Nationalist Party introduced in New Zealand and the Australian Labor Party tried to introduce in Australia. I am disappointed to hear that further investigation of a proposed scheme by the present Government, even though it may not have been the type of scheme that we would introduce, seems to have fallen by the wayside. One assumes that it has been abandoned because of a lack of co-operation by some of the States. One also could expect that it would have been abandoned because of opposition from some of the vested interests in the compensation and insurance industry. 
We believe that it is disgraceful that the injured in this country, on the one hand, are not receiving justice and just compensation for theninjuries and that the employers, particularly the small employers, are having to pay out large premiums because of the compensation system based on antiquated ideas and the antiquated method used in establishing people's rights to compensation. Certainly Labor's proposals seeking reform in this area created great controversy in the country and pressure from vested interests was very strong. But the ultimate proposal which was amended as a result of the work of the Committee of this Senate was also treated with rigid and unthinking opposition. I believe that we are now in the situation where we are left with the Government's proposition that this question is too hard, that we are unable to solve it and that it is best shoved into the background. 
The most common excuse one hears for not introducing a national compensation scheme is that it is another scheme which has foundered on the rock of the unyielding Constitution that this Government has. People are left with inadequate compensation or with no compensation at all. Small businesses are being inhibited from expanding and increasing their workforce by the excessive premiums that have to be charged under the present system. Since I have been Opposition spokesman in this area I have been surprised at the number of organisations, which previously would not have had a bar of any proposal we put up, which have inquired about what our scheme was about and how our scheme would have worked and have asked for copies of both reports and outlines of the scheme. They have done this because of the real difficulties they are having in meeting workers ' compensation premiums. 
No one who has looked at the compensation situation in Australia can come to any conclusion other than that the present system we have is firstly too uncertain. The adversary principle which exists, the necessity for proving negligence in many cases, and the complicated legal procedures mitigate against justice and the appearance of justice in these cases. As was found by both Committees that looked at the field, the present scheme is too expensive. Between 25c and 50c for every dollar paid out in compensation goes in costs in establishing the right or the need for that compensation. It was also impressed on both Committees by distinguished witnesses from the medical profession, the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled and other organisations that the present scheme mitigates against adequate safety precautions in industry and against rehabilitation. There is a positive disincentive to people being rehabilitated while they are waiting for compensation claims to be settled, those claims being based frequently on the situation of the person involved when the claim is heard. Of course the delays are endless. It is altogether an unjust, unfair and unsatisfactory situation crying out for a solution. That the Government turns its back on the problems is regrettable to say the least. 
The second part of our amendment refers to the possibility of quarterly adjustment of the payments under this legislation. At present injured workers who come under the Commonwealth Government employees compensation scheme, the sick pay provisions of the Public Service Act and the compensation legislation receive full pay for the first 6 months after their injury. These rates of pay are adjusted quarterly in line with the cost of living. This legislation provides the first increase in payments in about 2 years for the long term injured, the people who have been injured for more than 6 months. Therefore, the more seriously injured people are in fact discriminated against by the present legislation. In the absence of an adequate national compensation scheme this situation just cannot remain. Some provision has been made for regular adjustments in line with the consumer price index for pensioners and other social security beneficiaries. We believe that in the absence of a national compensation scheme it is time that some provision is made in this legislation for similar regular upgrading of the payments. 
This legislation is 12 months late. The last increase was due in 1975. The legislation was drafted, but the events of that time prevented that legislation being introduced. We believe that the Government has been tardy in this regard. As a result, great injustice has been caused. In 1954 a similar situation arose. The regular increase had been delayed by an election in late 1953. The government of the day backdated the increases to the beginning of 1974, when the amending legislation was introduced in April of that year. This was a just solution to the problem. We believe a similar solution could have been provided in this legislation. We believe the legislation should have been introduced much earlier in the year. The increases provided in this legislation take into account increases in the minimum wage up to the June quarter of this year. Later we Will be moving an amendment to give some measure of justice to people who are looked after by this legislation. The amendment is inadequate to give full justice, but the increased payments to these people have been delayed. These people have been denied increased payments for a long time. We believe that some amendment should be made to the legislation. 
The increases provided in Schedule 1 of section 7 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill can be expressed as a percentage of the rates which applied prior to this Bill. These increases vary from 25 per cent to 45 per cent. For instance, funeral benefits are increased by 45 per cent. Payments for children are up 43 per cent. The weekly payments are up 40 per cent. Lump sum payments for widows and for specified injuries are increased by only 25 per cent. The inevitable result is that widows and those with specified injuries get lower increases than others under the legislation. In 1974 the Act provided that a widow received $20,000, which was approximately 7 years at the weekly benefit rate then of $56 per week. The lump sum provided under this Bill is approximately 6 years at the proposed rate of $80 per week. I put it to the Senate that the legislation discriminates, in its increases, against the long term injured, as it did previously, against the widows and against those with specified permanent disabilities as described in the Act. These people have not been given justice in this legislation and they should be given justice because the cost of living has increased just as much for widows as it has for children, as it has for the dependants of people who unfortunately died or, indirectly, as it has for funeral directors. The reason these increases are 25 per cent instead of 40 per cent which applies in the rest of the Bill, I do not believe, can be found in any argument based on logic or justice but can be found, I believe, when we look at the economic obsession of the present Government and at State legislation in this field. 
The economic obsession is that government expenditure must be cut at all costs. The second reason is the benefits available under State schemes. The new lump sum benefits will not be as high as the lump sum benefits provided by the most generous States, particularly Tasmania, which has a Labor government, and Western Australia, which has a Liberal government. The new lump sum benefits are not increased by what we consider is the full amount. They will be just higher or at about the level of most of the other States, the less generous States, but not as low as the States which provide the lowest benefits. It seems to us that one of the reasons for these differences is that the Government's benefits are to be gauged by the least generous States- by the lowest common denominator. This principle may be in the true conservative tradition, but it hardly gives justice to those who are injured. It does not give justice to widows or to the wives of the injured. If the scale of benefits is to be consistent with an increased lump sum benefit for individuals and widows, this lump sum benefit must be up to the level of the other increases in this legislation. I believe it is wrong that the national Parliament should be constrained from giving justice to people under this legislation by reason of the fact that some States have inadequate legislation, that some States are less generous than others and we must not rock the boat or people in those States will demand justice at the level that is received in the Commonwealth. In the Committee stage we will be moving amendments to correct some of the anomalies. 
The Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill contains some amendments with which the Opposition certainly has no argument. Clause 6 removes restrictions on employers' liability. Clause 7 extends the definition of a child to include a student between 16 years and 21 years of age. Clause 3 removes the limit on payments for medical expenses. We have no argument with those amendments. We believe that they are the sorts of amendments that we would have brought in, but we were concentrating more on introducing a national compensation scheme to cover all. Similar differences in respect of increases of 25 per cent and 40 per cent occur in this Bill. At a later stage we will be moving amendments to rectify this anomaly. If the 
Government does not intend to work towards a proper national compensation scheme, the amendments of which we approve are welcome but differences still remain between the provisions for seamen and the provisions for Commonwealth employees. I shall give some of the differences. For instance, under the legislation, seamen do not receive pay for 6 months after injury. They do not have the same access to rehabilitation services that people under the other Act do. These may be small differences. In many cases the seamen may have overcome them by other means. We think the Act should be brought into line with the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. If this Parliament has a responsibility to legislate for proper compensation in this country, as we believe it has, we believe it should be looking at differences such as those in the 2 Acts and should be looking at the provision of a proper compensation scheme in this country. 
In summary, we believe that this legislation has been too long delayed, its introduction has been too long delayed, and the delay between the time of its introduction and the time of its ratification by this Parliament has been too long. People who should have been on $80 per week have been left on $57 per week. Both sums are probably inadequate, but the difference is considerable. We believe that the legislation discriminates against widows and the permanently injured. The legislation perpetuates the discrimination against the long term and therefore usually more seriously injured as compared with the short term injured. Our amendment which urges the Government to consider and introduce a national compensation scheme, we believe, is the only long term solution. Failing its acceptance, we believe that the least that could be done would be to introduce regular quarterly adjustments to the compensation, in line with the consumer price index. This benefit is available to workers who are injured in the short term. This benefit should be made available to workers who are long term injured and permanently injured. Therefore I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she is aware that officers in the New South Wales branch of her Department are some 500 to 700 man-hours behind in processing pension and benefit claims and cheques? Is the Minister also aware that staff is being transferred from other projects within her Department to hold the line so that pension payments will not be delayed over Christmas? Is it also a fact that the present rate of absenteeism and sick leave in this branch of her Department is very high, caused by the pressure on departmental staff due to staff shortages? Has the Minister requested reconsideration by the Prime Minister of current staff ceilings to alleviate this sort of pressure? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I do not want to deal at any great length with the report or about the metrication process in general but I should not like the impression to get around that the Opposition shares  Senator Wood's  view. I believe that  Senator Wood  should have expressed those views much more firmly than he did many years ago when the first report of metrication came down. He is far too late. The reason we support the metric system is because of its simplicity. I suppose the introduction of this system is one of the few things that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government did that I would support. Metrics in fact is an international language, not a foreign language. The introduction of this system means that our students and our scientists can speak the same scientific language that students speak in other parts of the world. 
I wish to assure the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  that there are some expressions that will not disappear from our language because of this cultural change. The expression: 'Give him an inch and he will take a mile' refers very well to what the Minister does at question time. I do not think there is any possibility of that changing to: 'Give him a centimetre and he will take a kilometre'. I shall not seek leave to continue my remarks because I understand that my colleague  Senator Button  wishes to express the opposite view. 

 Senator WOOD ( Queensland  )-Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I did not mean to give that impression at all, senator. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Webster)  adjourned. 
I am sorry I do not have the legal education that is often needed in this place. It would seem to me that the Defence Service Homes Act, the parent Act, confers certain powers on the Corporation. The Corporation has functions. What are the functions conferred on the Corporation by the Defence Service Homes Act? Are the functions substituted for functions contained in the repealed Part II of the Housing Corporation Act? This Bill does not seem to contain any mention of the powers of the Corporation. We assume that the Corporation has only whatever powers are conferred by the Defence Service Homes Act. 
On a slightly different tack, is it intended that this Corporation will employ staff from outside the Public Service, as I believe it does now, or will the staff be provided by the Department of Veterans' Affairs? I should think that if the Corporation continues to employ staff from outside the Public Service it may be inconsistent that the Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs should be the person controlling the Corporation, or corporation sole, or whatever the correct legal term is. 
I thank the Minister. I shall take a crash course in law and take the matter up with him when the amendments come along. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Is it intended to alter this legislation later? I cannot understand why the Government has decided to maintain the structure of the Corporation, but has vested all the powers of the Corporation in the Secretary, the permanent head, of the Department of Veterans ' Affairs. He will be the corporation. It seems to me that the Corporation will be a bureau with a department. I cannot see the necessity for it being left this way. Does the Government intend to leave it this way? 
-I would like some explanation of this clause. Subclause ( 1 ) repeals Parts II, III, IV and V of the original Australian Housing Corporation Act which dealt with the functions and powers of the Corporation, the composition of the Corporation, the General Manager and the provision of finance for housing. Clause 8 ( 1) of the Bill substitutes a new Part II, which includes section 5 (2), which states that the Corporation included in the repealed section will continue in existence under a new name. But this Bill makes it clear that the nature, functions and powers of the new corporation are fundamentally different. 
We are wondering why this has been done this way. The question seems to be: What is the nature of the body referred to in that clause that is to continue in existence? For instance, who will be the members of the new Corporation? Will the Corporation continue to have functions and powers? If so, specifically, what will they be? If the Corporation will have no members, what in fact constitutes the Corporation? Why was this done in this way? One wonders why the whole Act was not repealed and a new Act introduced. 
-This clause provides that members of the Corporation shall cease to hold office on the date of commencement of the Act. The Corporation originally consisted of 8 members, including the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Construction, the General Manager and others. Under section 13 of the Australian Housing Corporation Act part time members were appointed for 3 years and it was provided that they be paid such remuneration as would be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. I wonder whether there will be any compensation for the early termination of these appointments. Also, has the Governor-General been consulted about abolishing the apppointments made by him? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What proportion of pre-schools have extended and integrated their services beyond sessional pre-school. 
If the information is available, will the Minister indicate the major type of children's services that are provided by those pre-schools that have extended their services. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security issued instructions to her Director-General as to how many job applications from a school leaver registering for work and benefit will suffice to establish that he or she is a genuine job seeker; or has the DirectorGeneral chosen a standard number of applications as proof of the school leaver's  bona fides;  or is it indeed a fact, as suggested, that whether a school leaver has made one attempt or 101 attempts to find a job he or she will be treated equally rigidly, with no benefit being available until the dates as proclaimed by the Minister and her Director-General? What are the guidelines for special benefit to be given to school leavers over the long vacation? 
-The Senate is now debating the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill, which, in the words of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech, has as its prime purpose the reconstitution of the Australian Housing Corporation in accordance with the Government's announced policy to change its name, nature and function so that its sole responsibility will be the administration of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. The title of the Bill is therefore rather deceptive. The Bill has the positive function of re-establishing the Defence Service Homes Scheme in the Department of Veterans' Affairs, but it also has the negative function of destroying the Australian Housing 
Corporation. It is for the second reason- the destruction of the Australian Housing Corporationthat the Opposition opposes this Bill. 
We support the retention of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. Under this Bill, the functions of that scheme in fact will remain unchanged. The ex-servicemen and eligible people still will be entitled to defence service homes at the same interest rate and under the same conditions as they have in the past. I do not wish to dwell on this aspect of the Bill. I merely ask the Minister whether he can tell us what is happening concerning the situation under the Defence Service Homes Scheme of  de facto  widows of deceased eligible ex-servicemen. I understand that provision is made under the Repatriation Act for whatever reason for the  de facto  wives of exservicemen. Consistency would seem to me to mean that under this sort of legislation the same sort of provision would apply, but it does not seem to do so. I understand that the Minister before last was having discussions with the Returned Services League. We have been advocating this change and we are wondering when it will come about. 
As I have said before, this legislation to all intents and purposes destroys the Australian Housing Corporation. The Corporation was set up in 1975 by the Labor Government. It was designed to assist low income families to purchase homes. The main plan it had in hand was to supply second mortgage loans for home purchase and for building, with a deferred repayment formula to ease the burden in the earlier years of the loan. First mortgages also were to be available on specific housing developments on a joint venture basis. The aims of the Corporation in general were to help one income, one parent families, poor families, those establishing first homes on a limited budget. It also was designed to provide information and advice on home purchases, titles, tax deductions and other things that are so important in the purchase of homes. 
Housing remains a very serious problem in this country. We have in excess of 100 000 people on waiting lists for public housing. As has been demonstrated by the various housing surveys, large numbers of people live in inadequate housing and housing which is far too expensive. There is an inequitable distribution of welfare housing to the underprivileged, as the Henderson report and others have pointed out. More poor people live in privately rented houses and pay too much rent than live in public housing, and too many people in public housing have no real need for the concessions and benefits which that sort of housing provides. It is now 12 months since this Government came into power. Although the Housing Corporation, which had not been in existence for very long, was only just getting off the ground and had not been able to establish its functions properly, of course it has not been functioning at all this year because of the Government's reluctance to support that sort of scheme. 
What has happened in the 12 months since the Government came to power? We all know that housing is in short supply in this country. Housing is of an inadequate standard in many places. Housing is the major expenditure of families. Its cost is escalating. The Government has appointed a Minister for Housing who has other responsibilities, particularly for the environment and community development, which at the moment are very onerous. He has some very difficult problems. Inflation continues, and therefore cost increases in the housing field continue. The Government now has increased interest rates again. It has introduced a homes savings grant scheme. The grant, which has a maximum of $2,000, is for those who can afford to save sufficient money to qualify. This scheme is regressive. It favours those more affluent people who are able to save, more than it favours the poor. There is further legislation coming up next week dealing with that subject. I will not go into it now, but I am sure that at that time we will be able to demonstrate that the main function of the homes saving grant will be to add $2,000 to the cost of houses. The Government has introduced a housing allowance voucher experiment. It is on this subject that I wish to expand later. The main purpose of this experiment would seem to be to demonstrate that the Government has a concern for social reform. But the Government also has cut funds for public housing; it has sabotaged the land commissions scheme which was designed to reduce land costs; it has reduced assistance available under the mortgage interest payment tax deductibility scheme; it has reduced funds for Aboriginal housing; and now it abolishes the Australian Housing Corporation. 
The main initiatives of which the Government seems to be most proud are in fact the homes savings grant scheme and the housing allowance voucher experiment. The housing allowance voucher experiment was announced by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  soon after he' took over the portfolio. An amount of $75,000 has been allocated in the present Budget for the introduction of this experiment. There has been no debate in this Parliament; in fact until recently there has been very little public debate on the introduction of this scheme. The housing allowance voucher experiment has been introduced with very little publicity, as I said, and very little public discussion. This scheme is worth looking at. It is worth looking at all the more because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said last week in Tasmania that the housing allowance voucher scheme would increase the availability of adequate housing in this country. He spoke as though it was not an experiment but an established scheme that would continue. In answer to a question from  Senator Harradine  in this chamber on 2 November,  Senator Guilfoyle  said that the Government's housing allowance voucher scheme would make a great difference to the housing available for aged persons in Tasmania, particularly those in rural areas. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has talked about the housing allowance voucher scheme as being the brave new world, the great new initiative in housing. I question this. I question whether the Government is really introducing an experiment or whether those Ministers who have spoken on this subject believe that it is an experiment and not an on-going plan. We know that the Government is planning this as an experiment, and it is this very experiment that I want to question. We know from discussion papers of the Department and discussion papers of those who are talking about this scheme that the proposed housing allowance is described as being part of an income support program. The allowance is described as a series of regular, periodic payments made directly to a family or eligible individual unable to afford a decent home in a suitable living environment. The allowance must be used to pay rent. The amount which will be paid will be determined on family need- I assume that that is family size and family income- in relation to the cost of a standard existing house or flat in a modest neighbourhood. The professed aim of the scheme is for the family to be allowed to choose its house or flat, for the family to be given assistance by the Government and for the Government to have a secondary or what is called an enabling role. 
The definitions that I used before and the definitions that are used in other places involve the use of terms such as 'decent homes', 'suitable environment', 'need' and 'modest neighbourhood'. The legislation talks about fair market rents and minimum standards of housing. It talks about a community wide housing code enforcement program, whatever that is. All the factors in this experiment will require terms such as 'decent houses', 'standard houses', 'modest neighbourhoods' and 'community- wide housing code enforcement programs' to be defined and will require these terms to be supervised. They will require inspectors to decide what is a decent home, what is a standard home and what is a modest neighbourhood. They will necessitate the determination of a fair market rent. Minimum standards of housing will have to be determined. We already have, in the group of definitions to which I have referred and in other definitions, the start of a burgeoning inspectorate or a burgeoning bureaucracy just to supervise this experiment. 
When we consider that it is in fact an experiment, that people are to be experimented on, that their behaviour is to be watched and that their reactions to the housing voucher scheme are to be watched carefully, we can see that a large number of people will be involved just in the experimental stage. But that is not going to be all because there is going to be non-monetary assistance given under this housing voucher experiment. This sort of assistance will help people in how to spot a good buy in terms of structural adequacy and financial soundness of the house or the deal. It will provide information on discrimination of a social or ethnic origin. It will require all sorts of non-monetary assistance to help these people involved in what, I repeat, is an experiment. It will involve them in getting help of this type. It will mean that this whole scheme will have to be carefully supervised. 
If we take the Government's intention seriously what we are looking at in this scheme is certainly the biggest- probably the only- real social experienment in this country's history, an experiment for which $75,000 has so far been allocated for the design stage but it will certainly need very much more than $75,000 to establish. What we are looking at is a scheme which is going to be conducted in the cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart over 3 years and is going to involve the expenditure of many millions of dollars in those years. I believe this Parliament and this community should question this experiment. The first question I ask is: Should such an experiment, an experiment on such a scale, be commenced at all? Should it be commenced without more parliamentary, more public and more expert discussion? Should such an experiment be conducted without a clear statement of termination procedures- the procedures to terminate the experiment in case it is not seen to be successful or in case the economic conditions provide that the experiment cannot be continued or that the whole scheme cannot be continued? If we do not know what the termination procedures are we do not know how it will affect the behaviour of the renters or the builders who will take advantage of the vouchers available under this scheme. 
The more serious question, I believe, is what validity such an experiment will have when those who are involved in it know that they are part of an experiment and part of an experiment which may be terminated after 3 years. How will this affect their behaviour- their behaviour in renting houses or flats? How a social experiment of this type can be conducted when the people who are part of the experiment know they are part of it is beyond me. The experiment is going to involve controls. How will those people who are controlled and who are getting no assistance behave? 
We do this in our medical practice. This is a social experiment. I am very surprised that the honourable senator would agree with such a social experiment. Indeed, if the Labor Party had suggested such a social experiment I can imagine the speech the honourable senator would make about it. I ask: What sort of validity will an experiment conducted in urban areas in Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart have in the consideration of future rural housing policies? We have no idea how much this experiment will cost. We have no idea what housing authorities, housing experts- public or privatewill be needed to judge such things as minimum housing standards, modest neighbourhoods or the establishment of a community-wide housing code enforcement program, whatever that is. We have no idea how migrants, the Aborigines and the aged will enter that experiment especially in view of the minimum housing standards. 
This has been a great problem in America in the housing voucher experiments which were started there and which, despite the claims of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the department, are still continuing and have not been evaluated. But we do know from the preliminary evaluation that the take-up in the American experiment- and American conditions are very different from ours- has been very low. The main reason for this low take-up has been the minimal housing standards that were set and the great difficulty for ethnic groups and other under-privileged groups to get into the experiment even if they desired to go into better housing standards. A serious question in a country that has a shortage of dwellings and a shortage of units available for people to live in is what sort of effect on rents will a housing voucher experiment have in areas where there is such a shortage? One would suggest that a very likely result and an almost inevitable result will be the bidding up of rents, an increase in rents in those areas, as has been predicted in articles on this subject. 
The big problem we have in this country is to increase the number of houses and flats available in Australia and to increase the standard of those houses and flats and to make them accessible to the low income groups in this country, particularly in a period of high inflation. The Australian Housing Corporation, although it did not get off the ground, had positive schemes involving second mortgages, varying the repayment rates on first mortgages under certain conditions, to make some positive effort but that has been abandoned in favour of what is a 3-year experiment, an experiment which will not start till next year, an experiment which is very doubtful will increase the number of houses available in this country and the number of flats available. That is the problem that is facing us in housing. 
I question the validity of social experiments of this type at all. I question the timing of this sort of social experiment if that is what is to be done. At a time of increasing inflation, at a time of housing shortages we are going to sit back for 3 years and conduct an experiment of doubtful validity to see just what will happen at the end of that time. I question whether some influential Ministers in fact consider it an experiment at all. They are talking as though this is the future in this country. They are talking in their Friedmanite way as though this is the way to do things, to give people money and they will somehow magically be able to acquire the services, even the services do not now exist. Already articles have appeared on this subject such as that by Patricia Apps in the  National Times  of 2 weeks ago which nave pointed out very seriously doubts about how any possible successful outcome can come from this experiment, an experiment conducted in 2 large cities- and 1 moderate sized city- in this country; an experiment which has no reference to rural areas; an experiment which has no reference to the large country towns which also have housing problems; an experiment which will have no effect on the appalling state of housing for aged persons in this country as demonstrated in the aged persons housing survey which was produced last year but done in 1974. 
It is time this Parliament and the public had more information about this experiment which is going to be conducted, this experiment which is going to eat up a lot of money. It is time we in this Parliament, those in the community who have more expert knowledge of this area, those in universities and those in the building industry had a serious look at just what methods are going to be used in this experiment, and at its aims. We should not blindly translate into this country an experiment which is still being conducted in America. We should not blindly conduct social experiments in our community unless we have a much greater idea of what is going to happen at the end of them and unless the people in this country know exactly what is going on. 
The Australian Housing Corporation had positive aims but never had the chance to start to achieve those aims. For that reason we believe that the Government, even though it is philosophically opposed to things like the Australian Housing Corporation, even though it philosophically has great difficulty in accepting such concepts, has not adequately substituted any other scheme to replace it; and it should have, because, as I have said before, we have a great shortage of housing and we have a great problem with regard to inadequate housing in this country. Because the Government is dismantling a scheme which started to show signs and had promise of helping to alleviate the problems of housing in this country we oppose this legislation. We have further questions to ask when the Bill is considered at the Committee stage. We shall ask how this Bill is going to affect defence service homes and how it is going to carry out the functions for which it provides. Our prime reason for opposing it is the fact that it destroys the Australian Housing Corporation. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to Press reports this morning concerning a large scale fraud in relation to unemployment benefit in New South Wales. I ask the Minister Has the apparent success of this dole fraud been helped by the staff ceiling that the present Government has applied to the Minister's Department, especially in that area of supervision of the payment of unemployment benefit? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many children under the age of 5 years have both parents in the work force. 
How many places are available in commercial child care centres. 
How many places are available in non-profit making child care-centres which are funded by the Federal Government for (a) full day care, and (b) other forms of care. 
I reply only that to carry  Senator Baume  's argument to its extreme, he would abolish the pharmaceutical benefits scheme; he would abolish the controls on the drugs in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme; and he could have his beautiful capitalist system, whatever he calls it, right through the pharmacies. I suggest that  Senator Baume  occasionally should read the publications of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia in which this sort of suggestion is being made. To describe that approach as a nationalisation of the pharmaceutical industry in Australia is to extend the meaning of that word to the absolute extreme. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the 2 reasons given by the Government for its failure to pay unemployment benefit to school leavers. The first is the alleged legal advice and the second, which was announced in a Government statement over the weekend and repeated by the Minister this morning, is that in previous years some people have returned to school after receiving unemployment benefit. I ask: What percentage of school leavers in the past has returned to school after receiving unemployment benefit? What percentage is this group of total school leavers? When will the Minister table the alleged legal advice that payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers is illegal? Is not the reason for the failure to pay this benefit an attempt to cut government spending? If so, why does the Government not come out and say so? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1976. The Bill provides for the establishment of a Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements which is to be composed of 4 members from the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, 4 public servants, and the  chairman  who will be a  Deputy President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Committee will determine what remuneration will be paid to pharmaceutical chemists when dispensing pharmaceutical benefits under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. We are interested to see that the chairman's decision will be final in the case of dissent and that the Government and the Guild will be bound by his decision. It is obvious- it has been obvious for a long time- that there is a need for this or a similar sort of arbitration system in this area. 
The matter of pharmacists' fees has been a source of contention and wrangling for many years in this country. From 1960 to 1972 the fee for pharmacists rose by only 2c a prescription. 
There was much discontent within the pharmaceutical profession and much public wrangling went on. From 1972 to 1975 the fee increased from the original 45c to 62c a prescription, and negotiations were taking place between the then Government and the Pharmacy Guild for the appointment of an arbitrator to develop some sort of arbitration system whereby this contentious and continuing wrangle could be prevented. The present Government came into office with a promise that it would establish a better method of setting the fees that are paid and claimed that as a matter of urgency the question would be resolved by renegotiation. Although an attempt was made to solve the problem by paying a 5c prescription fee to pharmacists for the previous 3 years, a High Court writ was issued, and the Government has now produced this legislation. It was hardly an urgent action, I would suggest, but certainly it is a case of better late than never. 
While we pay our pharmacists by prescription in this country, while we pay them on the basis of a fee for service, this Bill probably presents the best method of arbitration that we could devise in solving the problem and overcoming the wrangling that has been going on over the years. I think the question to be asked probably is: Should we pay a professional group such as pharmacists on the basis of a fee for each prescription they dispense, thus giving emphasis to the retailing and actual selling function of the pharmacist? 
I believe that pharmacists should be paramedical workers in the true sense. After all, they are taught pharmacy, chemistry, physiology, pharmacology and some medicine. I believe they could be a more important segment of the health care delivery service in this country than in fact they are, because we pay them on the basis of the number of pills and potions they dispense. The more they dispense, the more money they get. Frequently their income also depends on the number of patent medicines they can sell and, more frequently at this time, on the number of items they can sell which are completely unrelated to pharmacy or to medicine in general. I can remember recently buying a portable radio, not from a radio shop but from a pharmacy because the price there was cheaper. 
We have looked at the method of paying pharmacists and we should look at it again, the same, I believe, as we should look at the method by which we pay doctors in the community. I must say in passing that at least the pharmacists are willing to go to arbitration over their fees and are willing to accept that arbitration- something that my professional colleagues are not willing to do. I hope that the Bill does solve the wrangling. I hope that the Bill does solve the differences of opinion. Perhaps I do not have the same faith in legislation solving these problems as some other people in the community have. I should be interested to know what public servants will be on the proposed committee. One can imagine some screams from the pharmacists if one or more of the committee members were to be Treasury officials. 
However, before any change can be effected which will improve the professional position of pharmacists in the overall health care delivery service in this country 2 problems must be overcome. The first is a problem recognised, I believe, by everyone in the field of pharmacy and certainly recognised by the Pharmacy Guild in recent years, that is, the over-supply of pharmacies in this country. Figures are commonly cited in this regard. Those cited by the Guild demonstrate that we have one pharmacist for every 2500 people in this community. Countries like the United Kingdom and the United States have one pharmacist for about every 4500 people in the community. Others like Denmark and Holland have one pharmacist for every 14 000 or 15 000 people in the community. The figures are not exactly comparable- I accept this -because of the wide distribution of our community. But the figures demonstrate, and the returns to the pharmacists demonstrate, that we have an over-supply of pharmacists in this country. I believe that it is this factor plus the maldistribution of pharmacists in this country which cause many of the problems of the pharmacists. 
As in the medical profession, there are rural areas with small populations which are unable to get pharmacists and are unable to support them or, if they are able to get pharmacists, those pharmacists are inadequately paid because of the low number of patients and a low number of prescriptions being dispensed. As a result, we have a concentration of pharmacists in the metropolitan areas. These areas have an oversupply of pharmacists who in many cases end up being over-competitive. They must rely more and more on sales gimmicks and, I suppose, in a very few cases and in a very few places, they must rely on the illicit sale of drugs to make a profit. The patient does not benefit in this situation. The pharmacist does not benefit. The pharmacist is not necessarily doing the work he is trained to do, and job satisfaction becomes less and less important in his life. Anyone who reads the journal of the Pharmacy Guild will realise that chemists are thinking more and more about this aspect. Chemists recognise that they should be at the forefront of the battle to overcome the epidemic of pill-popping which is overtaking our society; but they are in a very real bind because of economic necessity. 
As I said, the Pharmacy Guild recognises this necessity for limiting the number of pharmaceutical outlets in Australia and for creating a more equal distribution of pharmacists in the rural and isolated areas to assist in the health care of the nation and to assist pharmacists to have a more satisfying professional life. 
-I doubt whether even those pharmacists who are imbued with the ethic that their business must be based on a profit, on a fee for service of the type we have at present- I am sure that this is what  Senator Baume  was interjecting about- will realise the difficulty of achieving this under the present system of margin over cost. Sooner or later we must face this problem. It is of no good looking at this problem and saying that we must preserve the present system but we must make it better, we must change the system. One suspects that those who are doing very well out of the present system, like all other vested interests, will resist change. They will mouth the right words at Pharmacy Guild meetings. They will say that we have a problem. They will talk of the necessity for change but they will not want that change to affect them. This happens so often in life. Some members of the Pharmacy Guild have suggested that the problem is easy to solve, that we should leave the system as it is. They suggest that somehow the Government should license the various pharmaceutical outlets and if there are too many in one area the Government should close them down but somehow pay those pharmacists compensation. Then we would have to pay an extra fee to people to practise in rural areas. I doubt whether those suggestions would get any better welcome in the pharmacy profession than they would get in the medical profession. One would be interested to see what would happen. 
I believe that eventually the solution will be a change in the present system of paying pharmacists whereby somehow people more expert than I, and perhaps even more expert than  Senator Baume,  can suggest a method whereby pharmacists are paid as professionals. Because of my philosophical bias, I would prefer them to be paid a wage, depending on the area they were in and depending on the work they had to do. 
Others, who have not my philosophical bias, may be able to devise a better system. But obviously, some system will have to be implemented. 
As I said, I hope this Bill will tidy up the present mess. I emphasise that from the point of view of the patient and from the point of view of the pharmacist it will do nothing to assist health care in the long term. I believe that health care is what we should be thinking about in legislation of this type. Everybody knows that the system of health care in Australia at the moment is not satisfactory. Our consumption of ethical drugs and our consumption of patent medicines is too high. The system needs reform. I believe the reform will not come until we have looked at the whole system in a dispassionate way, with a view to economy and with a view to efficiency of patient care. None of us seems to have been doing that. We have looked at various aspects of the system, be it funding, be it health insurance, or be it paying pharmacists so much for a prescription. As I said, the Opposition does not oppose this legislation. We hope it will tidy up present inadequacies in the system we have now. We believe that eventually the system will have to change. I do not rise today to give any answers, especially after receiving the Bill at such short notice, to which I have no objection. With these few words, I merely announce that we do not oppose the Bill. 
I rise merely to talk in general terms on the whole Bill, in view of some remarks that were made in the second reading debate by another senator. The Bill deals with the dispensing by chemists of prescriptions for pharmaceutical benefits. All these pharmaceutical benefits are ethical drugs prescribed by doctors, and this is the area with which I was dealing earlier. I suggested then that the method of payment of pharmacists for the dispensing of these drugs on a fee for service, per prescription basis was not adequate. I was not talking about general pharmaceutical goods, patent medicines, toys and other things that pharmacists sell. I was suggesting, as the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has suggested, that there may be a better method of payment and that these people should be paid for the professional skill they have rather than for preparing mixtures and counting tablets. 
There is some support for this in other parts of the world and in Australia. I would like to quote from the report of a working party on the abuse of medicines established by the European Public Health Committee of the Council of Europe last year. It said: 
The pharmacist (as has been remarked at various points in section 1 and the present section) is likely to find himself in a conflict of interest, in view of his status as a professional man having professional duties on the one hand and as a retailer with business interests on the other. 
The ultimate solution of the problem must lie in a separation of commercial and professional interests. There is much to be said either for a system in which the retail pharmacist is a salaried employee of a public controlled distribution system, as in Sweden, or a system in which the number of pharmacies is limited strictly by the authorities so that the individual pharmacist can earn an adequate income when Limiting his activities to the sale of medicines, according to the highest professional standards. 
It is difficult for the pharmacist whose establishment is largely devoted to the sale of cosmetics and other consumer goods to place professional interests first; equally, the pharmacist whose turnover is limited may find it difficult to maintain the highest standards of practice where this will entail a restriction or refusal of the sale of medicines. 
I at no time suggested, even if it were possible, that we should nationalise pharmacies as they are known in this country. What I was suggesting is that there may be a better method of paying a pharmacist for dispensing the goods under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, which is what this Bill is about. Such a method could involve changing the payment from fee for service to perhaps a salary or perhaps a flat rate. The pharmacist then would be able to continue his other activities and perhaps would not need to indulge in the sort of retail activities in which they indulge now. Perhaps we would be able to pay pharmacists in rural areas an adequate fee to make sure that they stayed in rural areas. This is a serious subject. It is a serious subject, as is the whole system of health care in this community, and I am disappointed that someone who usually takes a serious approach to this matter should, on a day when we are trying to get legislation through and when the Opposition is trying to cooperate with the Government, indulge in cheap political and semantic tricks of the type in which  Senator Baume  indulged. 
-The decision on where, when and whether to mine uranium in Australia and to export uranium from Australia and where we will go with nuclear technology in Australia is one of the most difficult decisions and difficult problems that this Parliament will have to face. Unfortunately the argument will tend to be very divisive in the community. I think to put things into perspective it is worthwhile remembering that at the moment we are still in the early stages of nuclear technology. From 1900 to 1906, despite theories that had been in existence for a long time before, there was still a great argument in the world as to whether the atom even existed. All the work, both theoretical and practical, that has been done on nuclear technology by men like Thomson, Max Planck, Niels Borhr, Einstein, Rutherford, Zillard, Enrico Fermi and all the others, was done this century. In fact the practical work was done in the last 30 years. So we are really only at the infancy stage of this technology. 
It is also worth remembering that concern about the dangers of nuclear technology and about the morality of how it should be used is not the invention of just a few radicals and a few conservatives in the last few years; such concern was first expressed by the scientists who were working on the Manhattan project from 1941 to 1945. They were very concerned, and scientists who work in nuclear technology are still concerned and still express their concern. The scientists and technologists argue still about the safety and the morality. As the Fox report points out, it is wrong to label the opponents of nuclear technology as radicals and subversives. I believe the discussion should be conducted in an atmosphere of objectivity and with as little emotion as possible. Unfortunately this did not apply in the debate in the other House. One hopes it will apply here. 
Nuclear technology has developed at a very rapid rate in the last 30 years to 35 years. This rapid acceleration of the technology was caused, firstly, by the concern of the allied powers that Germany may have developed an atom bomb during the Second World War. It has been aggravated since by the insatiable appetite for energy- about which  Senator Young  talked- by man in the developed countries and also by the determination to maintain arms superiority in this unstable world of ours. But unfortunately many would suggest that this technology has raced ahead of the very safety precautions and the waste disposal precautions which will be necessary for the safe future development of fission power. Some countries like Sweden, Austria, France, West Germany, Britain, Japan and India, faced with poor fossil fuel resources, high oil costs and uncertain oil supplies, have opted for nuclear power to a certain extent. Other countries like the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America, Canada and Iran have opted for nuclear power to a certain extent to protect their dwindling fossil fuel sources, their dwindling oil sources. 
We in Australia are in a position where we have no need at the moment for nuclear power. The developing countries, the poor nations of the world, by and large just cannot afford it. As Fox and others have pointed out they will not be able to afford it in the near future. But even in those countries which have opted for nuclear power, serious questions are being raised about how they should go in the future. Serious questions have been raised by, for instance, the Flowers royal commission in the United Kingdom about the plans by the English electricity commission to accelerate rapidly into a large program of breeder reactors. 
I personally do not take either of the extremist views on nuclear technology and uranium that are about in this country. I believe that the argument that uranium means money, therefore we should rip it out of the ground and export it-rip it out and flog it off- is nonsense and immoral. I believe that it is the sort of argument that led to the deaths of the early X-ray technologists, the early watch dial painters and the asbestos miners and workers and others in this country. It also led to the deaths of people in the plastics industry from hepatic carcinoma and that is still going on. This argument that there is a quid in it so let us rip it out and not worry about the results, I believe, is an immoral one in this age. 
I also am not impressed by the argument of those who say that we will never develop safe nuclear technology, therefore we should leave all the material in the ground. Neither that argument nor the first argument is an argument with which I agree. I am not so pessimistic to believe that man will not develop better safety precautions and better methods. In fact the Tokamak experiments in the U.S.S.R. and other experiments m the United States are showing the way; we will have fusion power in perhaps 20 or 30 years. We could develop our solar power resources. It is not the answer to everything. We can develop the methods of producing liquefied fuel from coal, as has been done in South Africa at the moment because they have to do it. But what is more important is that we can have a conservation of energy policy and we can have a national energy policy, which is recommended by the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry- by the Fox inquiry- in recommendations 12 and 14 and which no one in this country seems to like to quote. The dangers of an unchecked program of excessive growth in fission power are real. Associated with those dangers, of course, is the increased production of plutonium. I should perhaps quote from the report of the Flowers Royal Commission, which is very similar to the Fox Commission in this country. It states: 
The dangers of the creation of plutonium in large quantities in conditions of increasing world unrest are genuine and serious. Plutonium appears to offer unique potential for threats and blackmail against society because of its great  radiotoxicity  and its fissile properties. 
The construction of a crude nuclear weapon by an illicit group is credible. We are not convinced the Government has fully appreciated the implications of this possibility. 
Plutonium does create great problems in waste disposal and in the storage of future waste. One does not have to go to the opponents of nuclear power development and nuclear technology to be worried by this.  Dr Alvin  Weinberg, who was the Director of the nuclear laboratory at Oak Ridge in the United States until 1973 and who is in favour of nuclear power, has said that we need to recruit a dedicated priesthood to guard nuclear wastes and reactors and keep them nonpolluting in perpetuity.  Dr Alder  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission advocates sending the plutonium to the sun in rockets. I presume that he means when the day comes that rocket technology is free of accidents. However, Professor Hans Alfven, the Nobel prize winner for physics in 1970 and a man who is expert in plasma physics- the area in which fusion power will be developed- has, I believe, put the whole problem of waste most succinctly. He has said: 
Fission energy is safe only if a number of critical devices work as they should, if a number of people in key positions follow all their instructions, if there is no sabotage, no hijacking of transports, if no reactor fuel processing plant or waste repository anywhere is situated in a region of riots or guerrilla activity and no revolution or war- even a 'conventional one'- takes place in these regions. The enormous quantities of extremely dangerous material must not get into the hands of ignorant people or desperadoes. No acts of God can be permitted. 
That sort of remark from experts in the field must raise doubt, must raise questions. The problems talked about in the Fox report and in the Flowers report of terrorists or fanatics obtaining nuclear weapons are real. The serious concern about nuclear reactor safety, especially after the incident at Browns Ferry in the United States, where an electrician with a candle almost caused a tragedy, and what to do with reactors after their 30 or 40 years' life is up are real problems. I believe that it is not good enough for people to say: These problems are being worked upon and we will solve them very soon'. We may do so. My question is: Why can we not wait until they are solved? 
The Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, which is aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world and on which  Senator Young  hung his hat for one part of his argument, firstly has no teeth and, secondly, has not been signed by many of the nuclear power using countries in the world. Fortunately it would seem that the costs of nuclear power production are escalating so much that in the United States and other countries orders are being cancelled. But in those countries serious environmental problems have been raised and serious environmental questions have been asked. I have said that I am not one of the pessimists. I am not saying that we will never be able to develop safe nuclear power. I am suggesting that we may well be able to do so. I have enough faith in human technology to believe that we can. I am also convinced from my reading, as are many others from their reading, that fusion power, which may be the answer, is well on the way to being developed; that plasma physics and magnetic insulation may well solve the problems that we are worried about and may well make the sort of fission power that we are talking about redundant. 
I would regret it if the arguments about the export of a few thousand tonnes from Mary Kathleen, which will make no difference to the world 's attitude to nuclear power and which will make no difference to the supplies which go to Japan, West Germany and the United States, should become the basis of the very real argument which  Mr Justice  Fox and the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry have brought up. Before the Government makes the firm decision that  Senator Young  and some of the interjectors obviously have made, I hope that it will look seriously at the second Ranger report when it comes out and will allow, as the first report has suggested, a full and complete debate on the subject in this community. As the Fox report has pointed out, the development of the Ranger fields and the fields in Western Australia will be of very small economic benefit to this country. Surely that is no reason for haste. Surely this country can take part and make its voice heard in the search for improved international and national safety precautions in this very serious and very dangerous field. 
Surely we can make our voice heard when we talk about international agreements to stop the proliferation of nuclear power in the world and international agreements about the treatment of terrorists or fanatics who may well get hold of it. It is well to remember that there already have been attacks upon nuclear power stations in the world- and that an attack in Argentine was successful and that terrorists held control of a station for a few hours. Can we not wait for a proper debate on this subject in the community? Why rush in and rip it out of the Northern Territory or Western Australia when it may be of limited use in the world in a very few years and, when there is no mad haste for us to get involved in the whole process for a few years? Should we not be leading the world in the development of alternative non-nuclear power sources? Should we not be doing something about solar energy beyond the small amount of money and the small amount of time we are spending now? Should we not be looking at the alternative sources of methyl alcohol and the various other fields which are being looked at in other countries and which are being talked about? Should we not be talking about the development of liquefied fuel from our enormous coal resources? 
The problem is a serious one. It should be of concern to us all. We should not be condemning those who are concerned and those who express their concern about nuclear power in the way they were condemned in the debate in the other House. They were not condemned by  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues. We should not just determine our policy on the need to make profits for ourselves or those companies which seek to make profits. I remain an optimist. I see no need for the haste. I see no need for the mad desire to rush into this plan and development now. I urge the Government to allow the full public debate which has been asked for by  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues and not just to accept a debate in the 2 Houses, with ten or twelve members of this Parliament speaking for 20 minutes each so soon after the Ranger inquiry report has come out, as the basis for a decision. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the legal advice tabled by her yesterday which states that the payment of the unemployment benefit to tertiary students on university vacation is illegal, a proposition with which no one on this side would argue. I ask, as others have asked, whether the Minister has received any legal advice to back up the Government's decision to refuse to pay unemployment benefit to people who have left school, who are not returning to school and are seeking work. If she has such advice, will she table it in the Senate? 
It is necessary that I say something on the tabling of this very important fifth main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for her usual courtesy in allowing me to see the report before it was tabled. At this time when we have 40 per cent of those unemployed in this country aged between15 and 19 years and in view of the great possibility that opportunities for school leavers will be fewer in the next few years, the recommendations and findings of  Dr Fitzgerald  and his colleagues will be of the utmost importance to the Minister for Social Security, the Government and particularly the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  It is startling to see demonstrated in a table on page 7 of the report that there are 254 000 very poor dependent children, 281 000 rather poor dependent children and 536 000 poor dependent children in this country, using the rather austere definitions of 'poverty' which were drawn up in the first main report on poverty by Professor Henderson. 
In the short time that I have had to look at the report, and particularly at chapter 5 which is concerned with work and educational opportunities, it has become apparent that it has been brought home to us all that in this country we will have to take positive action. There will have to be positive government interference in the work market to provide opportunities for those in this community who are socially, economically, culturally and educationally deprived. Far too many people, and young people in particular, are getting into the vicious cycle of deprivation causing unemployment, further deprivation, and further unemployment. That sort of activity extends right through their families and particularly to their dependants. We cannot go back, as some people would like to do, to the days of Adam Smith and the free uncontrolled, unrestricted market that some people would so much like to see. This report is of vital importance. It could not have been put down at a more important time in our history. It provides information. Like all other reports, it requests the Government to seek further information. I hope that the Government will take the report very seriously, as the Opposition does. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
For the areas of Nunawading, Doncaster and Templestowe, what were the November 1976 figures of persons who (a) sought unemployment benefit, and (b) received unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) In the period 1 January 1 976 to 30 June 1 976, (a) how many unemployment beneficiaries had their benefit postponed, suspended or terminated by the Department of Social Security; (b) what were the reasons given for withholding benefit in each of these cases; and (c) how many of such persons lodged an appeal against the Department of Social Security's decision to postpone, suspend or terminate their benefits. 
In the period 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1976, (a) how many appeals were upheld by the Depanment of Socia Security as a result of Departmental reconsideration, without referral to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal for final determination of the appeals; (b) are any such instances incorporated in the table supplied by the Minister for Social Security to the Senate on 21 September 1976 and reported on page 797 of  Hansard.  If so, what proportion are thus recorded and under which heading are they represented. 
Of those appeals that were upheld in the first 6 months of 1976, whether through Departmental reconsideration or determination by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, what were the reasons given for reversing the original decisions to postpone, suspend or terminate benefit. 
What is the statistical breakdown of all persons whose benefit was postponed, suspended or terminated by the Depanment of Soda Security in the first 6 months of 1976, according to age, sex, ethnicity, marital status, number of dependents and length of time in receipt of benefit 
Using the above time-scale and dimensions, what is the statistical breakdown of those persons who lodged an appeal against postponement, suspension or termination of benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many of all appellants to the Department of Social Security in the first 6 months of 1976 applied for special benefit. 
How many of those applications for special benefit were granted. 
What was the average waiting period between application for special benefit and the determination of eligibility for same during the above period. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that in November 1975 the then caretaker Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, wrote that a coalition government, if elected, would introduce a lone fathers' pension? Does he now say that such a pension would cost $20m or $30m a year and is thus too expensive? Were these figures supplied by the Income Security 
Review Committee which was then looking at the problem of lone fathers? Is it a fact that consideration of the problem of lone fathers has now been dropped by the Income Security Review Committee? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that in the last few weeks some 3 1 officers of her Department from the employment benefits office in Victoria have resigned? Have there been similar resignations at this level in other States? Can she give us the reasons for the resignation of such a large number of officers from one department at the one time? 
I am sorry that I, too, cannot seek leave to incorporate my remarks in  Hansard.  We in the Opposition are thankful that these reports have been tabled. After months of equivocation and doubt about whether the reports would ever see the light of day, it is gratifying that the efforts of the Opposition to get important reports like these tabled in the Parliament and discussed have been rewarded. It is important that the Opposition, welfare recipient organisations and the various welfare organisations in all States at least now will be able to study both of these reports, discuss their findings, their relevance to the welfare scene in this country, and contribute, we hope, although we sometimes doubt whether we will be able to do so, to the outcome of these reports and the eventual implementation of the recommendations. 
I say in passing that this situation is in stark contrast to what happened in the case of the Medibank Review Committee, 2 members of which were on the Holmes Committee on the Care of the Aged and the Infirm. In that case a committee of review obviously was given very strict guidelines and a set task. We did not see the report. No one could discuss the report. In fact it is common knowledge that a report was not written and the Government, in its haste to dismantle Medibank, gave no one any opportunity to discuss the new changes. The results of this sort of procedure are obvious in the community. The dissatisfaction with the changes to Medibank are obvious to all members of this chamber. 
We believe that the guidelines that were given to both these committees were unnecessarily narrow and mainly demonstrate the Government's pre-occupation with finding real or imagined overlaps and duplications in our welfare programs and its obvious desire to foist as many of the social welfare programs as possible on to the States with a resultant reduction in the cost to the Commonwealth. It is notable that despite the very strong words in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  relating to duplications and overlaps in the field of social welfare and the implication in the statement that these largely caused the problems about which we all know in our social welfare programs, the Bailey Task Force, at page 24 of its report, states: 
We have not found evidence of gross duplication or overlap. 
It thinks it has found sufficient evidence to warrant changes in existing programs but it did not find evidence of great overlap or duplication. This finding bears out the submission that the Australian Council of Social Services made to the Bailey Task Force when it said that there was very little evidence of overlap causing inefficiency in the field of social welfare. 
In the last 5 years we have had very many valuable reports on welfare in this country. The various Henderson Committee reports are available. A large number of Social Welfare Commission reports and reports put out by voluntary agencies are available. In this Parliament we have talked about the problems concerning the administration, co-ordination and evaluation of those goals and programs. We have talked about them in the context of the overall adequacy of our welfare programs. The reports of these 2 task forces, these 2 committees of review, which had very tight time schedules and terms of reference, will be useful. But the Opposition puts the point that they must be considered in the context of all the other reports and information that have become available. Administrative niceties do not necessarily lead to efficient and effective programs at the level at which they must be effective to be worthwhile, that is, at the level of the recipient or client. Attempts to produce administratively neat programs without evaluating their effectiveness at this very important grass roots level are not always productive. In this field we are dealing with human beings; we are not dealing with figures on a balance sheet. It is very important that this obsession with duplication and overlap- as I said, real or imagined- must not overshadow the findings of all the more detailed, careful, independent and, I suggest, useful inquiries which show that the overwhelming problem in the welfare field or the health field in this country is not duplication and overlap but gaps. There are gaps in finance, gaps in services available to people and, equally as important, gaps in the accessibility of this finance and these services to those who need them. 
It is important that we consider what the results of implementing any of the findings in these reports will be. We must consider whether these suggestions will provide basic needs in the social security area for the deprived in our society. We have to decide whether they will improve the access of those services and moneys available to the people who need them. We also have to decide whether these reports provide the necessary flexibility for the changing needs which continually occur in our society and whether they will assist in the prevention of social deprivation, poverty and inadequate care in the fields of housing of the aged, health and all the other areas. Considering the personnel on those committees- not the individual personnel but their association with the government servicethe time schedule and the tight terms of reference that were given to those committees, I believe that they were just intended to be a means whereby the philosophical goals of the present Government of pushing off as much expenditure and responsibility in the welfare field to the States could be adequately fulfilled. We all are concerned that health and welfare programs will be effective and will achieve their aims. For a long time in this country we have approached this area without sufficient information, without sufficient facts and sometimes clouded by various ideological and philosophical prejudices. But the systems have failed in far too many areas. They have left gaps. They have not provided for the involvement of those directly affected in the decision-making processes and the evaluating processes of the various programs that we have. 
To transfer the administration and funding of many of the programs to the States as suggested by these reports may put the problems out of sight and out of mind in this Parliament but certainly will not result frequently in increased effectiveness in those programs where that effectiveness is important. To impose the States, which under some of these proposals will control the funds and administration, between the Commonwealth which decides the guidelines and the voluntary bodies and the other groups which at present frequently get direct funds hardly seems to me any guarantee of more efficiency and certainly no guarantee of local involvement. 
In this whole field of welfare and health services, Commonwealth-State relations and responsibilities have always been important. I think it is important to recognise the simple and practical fact that in recent years- certainly in the post-war years-social reform and new initiatives in this country in general have come only from Federal governments, with the exception of the State of South Australia. State governments have not been noted for initiatives in this field. In fact, quite frequently State governments have resisted initiatives put forward by Federal governments, and have done so for all sorts of reasons. 
The present Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  experienced this when she transferred the funding of the women's refuge and women's health centre in Brisbane through the States. She found that Queensland wiped out an important service that was appreciated by its own agencies, by the Queensland police force and by all the relevant groups in the Brisbane community. It was wiped out with the stroke of a pen on the ground of ideological and philosophical prejudices. National guidelines in this field are most essential. The Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health, chaired by  Mr Peter  Bailey, recognises this at page 46 of its first report where it states: 
In summary, we believe the Commonwealth should discharge several important functions in the welfare/health field: 
as the national government, be responsible for establishing national policy, maintaining a critical surveillance of the welfare /health field and initiate action to reduce undesirable overlap. 
Almost as an afterthought in brackets, the report adds:  (or to eliminate 'gaps ') 
Perhaps the Bailey Task Force realised what it was supposed to do. The report continues: 
as the source of income maintenance payments of various kinds . . . 
as the continuing provider of funds for programs which the States are unable or unwilling to finance from their own revenue sources . . . 
) as an initiator of innovative programs, either directly or in consultation with and making use of State or local agencies . . . 
It is one thing for the Commonwealth to set out guidelines in this area and then provide the States with block grants hoping that they will follow those guidelines through. All governments in this country have known and know that that is an easy thing to say, but to try to maintain those guidelines with funding indirectly through the States is a very difficult thing to do. The priorities of the States are very different. The political priorities are often very different. It is surely sensible in 1977 that there should be national standards and guidelines in this field. Organisations like the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled and the Australian Council of Social Services continually point out that the initiatives have come from the Federal Government and that they are most concerned that, if the funding does not come from the Federal Government but is in fact channelled through State governments, it might get lost for all sorts of reasons. Sometimes the motives are pure; sometimes not. 
Therefore, we in the Opposition urge that the Government not treat these reports as it treated whatever report came out of the Medibank Review Committee and that it provide not only ample consultation with the welfare organisations, with the people who are to receive welfare, but also ample consultation with all other members of the community who are interested in this aspect. We are anxious that there should be proper and critical discussion. We are anxious that these reports be considered in association with the other very important reports and very important studies that have been done in the field of welfare in this country. At least the reports are now public, even if as we believe- in fact, as we are certain- that the Government's aim in setting up these 2 committees was merely to provide evidence and information so that it could more quickly carry out its misguided policy, called the 'new federalism', of foisting responsibilities onto the States. 
Even if that was so, now that the reports are public I urge the Government, in view of the fiasco that happened with Medibank, to look seriously at these reports and also to consider seriously the objections and the other suggestions which will inevitably come from many parts of the community. If we allow welfare development in this country to continue to grow like Topsy, as it has done for 77 years, and if we go on adding bits and pieces here in response to some articulate group around election time or out of a desire to do something nice in a Budget the contents of which are otherwise unpleasant, the shambles will get worse. Merely reorganising the funding of welfare programs, shifting them to the States, shifting the responsibilities from one department in the Federal Government to the other and ceasing funding through direct organisations but channelling it through the States is no way to bring decent reform to welfare in this country. If that is all we will do, it will be the equivalent of moving the deck chairs around on the  Titanic.  The whole thing will go down. It will become a shambles. I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 
General Business taking precedence of Government Business at 8 p.m. 
I move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should introduce legislation to provide for the statutory establishment and funding of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
I will not delay the Senate. My proposition is not as long or as complicated as that put forward by  Senator Wright.  I also will be using the words of some of my senatorial colleagues on the other side of the chamber. However, I will not be accusing them of deceit or devious behaviour. My proposal seeks merely to bring back to life the Australian Assistance Plan, a plan to help people, unlike the previous proposal which sought to introduce political trials into this country. I believe that my motion should get support from both sides of the House. In fact Government members from the time of the introduction of the Australian Assistance Plan have shown enthusiasm for it and should have no difficulty in supporting my motion. Indeed, in the month leading up to the 1975 election then Opposition members all over the country and the then Opposition spokesman on social security were enthusiastic supporters of the Australian Assistance Plan wherever they went. Some of them since that election have remained supporters; others unfortunately have not. 
Since the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  announced on 31 May last year that no new grants would be forthcoming for administration or for projects after 30 June 1977 under the Australian Assistance Plan the whole scheme has dropped into a pit of despair. This motion, which I hope will receive bipartisan response, is an attempt to lift it out of the doldrums and out of that pit of despair because when the Australian Assistance Plan was introduced there was considerable enthusiasm for it from both sides of the Senate and universal support for it from both sides. There was no opposition in either House of this Parliament. In going through the files that one has accumulated on the Australian Assistance Plan and in going through the records on the Australian Assistance Plan is it very difficult to find anyone in this country who has criticised the concept or the basic activities of the Australian Assistance Plan. If we exclude the extreme reactionary National Party element in Queensland there is no one who is opposed to the Australian Assistance Plan. 
The Plan was introduced in 1973 and, in the words of  Mr Hayden  when he tabled the report on the Plan and introduced the Plan, it was introduced to bring together these threads: Planning, regionalism, true democratic participation, community development and regular critical evaluation of the performance of programs to ensure their continued relevance and satisfactory operation.  Mr Chipp,  the shadow Minister at the time, said: 
Here is one of the most important social documents laid down in this Parliament for 20 years ... It has been Liberal policy for years and we accept it. 
I am not suggesting that the Australian Assistance Plan as it was introduced was perfect. It was an experimental plan and we accepted that it would need modification. We would expect any new plan of this type to need modification. Naturally it took some time for State governments, local government authorities, voluntary organisations and individuals who participated in it to learn how to work together and to assess the welfare needs in their own area. It took time and patience to learn how to handle the financial procedures and the restrictions which come with grants from government, both administrative grants and, in some cases, per capita grants. First of all the grants went to a few pilot areas. Some were successful and some were less successful than others. 
Some were very successful. There were some difficulties. There were some inter-regional jealousies. There were some people who did not like new ideas. However, in a few months in the development of the regional councils and in the development of the Aus.tralian Assistance Plan good will was produced. Money and services were used in a sensible way and the plans and schemes that were needed in various areas were set up. The regional concept was new and created some difficulties. It was challenged in the High Court of Australia by Victoria and the challenge was rejected by that Court. 
Local government overcame its initial resistance and in fact enthusiastically joined the regional council. Anyone who was at the conference held by the regional councils in Canberra last year will remember the frequency with which the delegates were announced as 'Councillor' or 'Alderman'. Community volunteers entered the scheme. Some were organised in groups and some were individuals who were attracted by an invitation to enter a scheme in which they could assist their neighbours and their community. They formed a human resource whose skills could be used to set up welfare plans in those communites which worked efficiently and which would work more efficiently in the future as they became more experienced. What is more important perhaps, one would think, to this Government, is that they would work much more economically than a full government scheme which had to be fully funded and fully controlled. 
Many members of Parliament, including members of this House, from the coalition side and from the Opposition side, were at the national conference of the Australian Assistance Plan in April last year. Many of them spoke. No one spoke in opposition or suggested that the 
Australian Assistance Plan should be thrown out and not continued. Everyone who was at that meeting was aware that the present Government had a commitment to financial stringency and had no expectations at all that extra millions, or even perhaps as much as was provided before, would be poured into this scheme. But the people who attended that meeting came hoping and expecting to hear that the scheme would be continued as a national program, even if there was not much funding, even if the basis of the funding was different, and even if the plan was changed. Of course, the Minister for Social Security could give no such assurance at that conference. She promised to go away and consider the representations put to her and that the Government would make a decision after she had consulted her State counterparts at the Welfare Minister's conference which, from memory, was held in Darwin. 
I am not privy to what the Government considered or whether the decision had already been made; but what we know for sure is that, before any one of the State Welfare Ministers could open his mouth, put a point of view or even participate in any sort of serious discussion, the Minister read and circulated a statement which had been prepared before the conference and which pulled the rug from under the Australian Assistance Plan. The statement said that  Senator Guilfoyle  said on 25 May last that the Government was not attempting to demolish the Australian Assistance Plan by transferring it to the States. Whether or not the Government was attempting to demolish the Australian Assistance Plan, that is in fact what has happened. No State has picked up the pieces. No State government has offered to pay the bills for the funded projects which have had to be wound down, for the administrative back-up, for the planning or for any other aspects of the scheme. The Government may well try to blame the States for destroying the AAP, for not taking it up after the Government had thrown them a baby which they could neither clothe nor feed because they were in no position to do so; but in considering that sort of proposition we should look at what the Government has done in its own Territories. 
If the honourable senator will tell me the State which has funded it, tell me the State which has maintained it or tell me the State which has kept it up on any scale, I shall agree with him. 
It is rejected in fact, if not in words. In the Northern Territory there has been no move, to my knowledge, by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  to assist the regional councils in the manner in which they were assisted before. In the Australian Capital Territory there has been no scheme to continue the AAP in the way it was conceived before, to fund the Regional Council for Social Development. The difficulty in the A.C.T., of course, is that funding for welfare planning which was received by the A.C.T. Council of Social Service also has been cut. 
The office of the Minister for Social Security, my office and the offices of all other members of this Parliament, both senators and members, have been flooded by representations from regional councils wishing to continue. They have set up counselling services, operated buses for handicapped persons, and set up handyman services for the aged, women's shelters, leisure clubs, children's groups- a vast variety of schemes all over Australia, depending on the needs in the various regions. They have encouraged participation by advertising, by access radio, in novel ways, in new ways, in almost every way. There is no need for me to list the vast variety of schemes which have been established. Unless these people can see that the Government equals them in good faith, people will not easily put in that kind of altruistic work in the future. 
No one could suggest that the AAP was a wildly political program. I know, and everybody else knows, that in different areas diverse groups made runs for leadership and to take over, but in the end very few people of strong political persuasion dominated. All gave way to the community voice. It is for this reason that such a wide endorsement has been received by politicians throughout this Parliament and the State parliaments. The AAP began as a bipartisan program. It was established in the same way and there should be a bipartisan effort to save it. In June 1976  Mr Chipp  repeated his remark that the AAP was one of Labor's policies which had been superb and was also Liberal philosophy. In fact it was Liberal policy at the last elections. In June  Senator Baume  said: 'I set out to see the Australian Assistance Plan preserved. I believe it is still going to be preserved'. I wonder whether  Senator Baume  could get up in this Parliament and say that today.  Mr Peter  Collins, a Liberal MLA in Victoria, also spoke enthusiastically of the plan at the national conference. Last 
December  Dr Tonkin,  the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia, said: 
Because of the involvement and help given by voluntary organisations these projects are costing the community far less than they would have if the Department for Community Welfare tried to take them over. 
Had the States taken up the Australian Assistance Plan, it would not have been necessary to place this matter on the notice paper; but they never did. I put it to honourable senators, despite  Senator Missen  's interjections, that they are never likely to do so. They are not given the funds. Apart from the offer of a couple of officers of the Department of Social Security to help move the paper about in the changeover, they were not given any encouragement. In fact the Prime Minister at the same time was telling the States that if they began spending their own money too freely he would give them a sharp lesson in the new federalism. The result was inevitable: The AAP is no longer operating in any way. No regional council, to my knowledge, endorsed the passing of the Australian Assistance Plan to the States. This was for many reasons: Firstly, they valued and they needed the opportunity to be part of a national plan and to participate in the national goals of planning the self-help services and to learn from experience throughout this country. Those regional councils, established in States where neither the State or local government elected members have any experience or interest in the welfare needs of the people, were very apprehensive about the likelihood of their State governments wanting to take up where the Commonwealth had left off. Nor were they reassured by any suggestion from the Minister or the Prime Minister that the States had a closer and more intimate knowledge of local problems. 
I remember more than one delegate at the national conference of the Australian Assistance Plan in April last year expressing the view that the State bureaucrats and in some cases State politicians in their capital cities were more remote and had less interest in the problems they were trying to handle and solve than the bureaucrats of Canberra. It was surprising to hear a secretary of a local government organisation who, in fact, was not as keen about the AAP as other delegates at the conference saying that the most centralist governments in this country were the State governments. The much maligned bureaucrats from Canberra- one in particular- were applauded. They assisted the regional councils. They helped them in their planning and administration. They encouraged the whole scheme. But people at that conference and people who have spoken to me and other members of the Parliament do not believe that the centres of Brisbane, Sydney, Perth, Hobart and Melbourne can replace Canberra in this sort of national scheme. 
So we are in the situation now in which the last of the money is dribbling out for the last administrative grants. The last of the cheques are dribbling out to pay for the projects which have been promised. Great numbers of petitions have been presented to this Parliament. Regional councils have made their feelings known to everyone here. Every honourable senator and honourable member is aware of the lost opportunities for self-help of the highest order if the Australian Assistance Plan is sunk without trace. Morale has dropped and doors are locked. Administrators and welfare personnel who have become experienced, who have gained skills and brought them into this area, have gone to look for work elsewhere. I think that we can arrest this decline. I think it is worthwhile to do so. It is for this reason that I ask honourable senators from both sides of the chamber for their support for the Australian Assistance Plan by making a request to the Government in the terms of my motion. It is a request to introduce legislation to provide for the statutory establishment and funding of the Australian Assistance Plan. The amount of money spent up to now has not been great. The amount of money needed in the future will not be great. But it has been a Commonwealth responsibility. It was a Commonwealth initiative supported by members on both sides of the Commonwealth Parliament. The program can produce the best results only if it remains national. If the Commonwealth deserts this area and the States fail to take it up, as they will, the most altruistic and helpful people in this community will experience despair and cynicism about this Parliament, and about what government is all about in this country. 
It so happens that today there is a visible presence outside this Parliament of one of the casualties due to the demise of the Australian Assistance Plan. I refer to a yellow bus which is run by the kids' activity group in Newtown. This was originally funded by the Australian Assistance Plan and by the South West Sydney Regional Council for Social Development. It is a mobile school play activity group aimed at catering for children whose families for many reasons, as those who know that area of Sydney will understand, are in need of advice and help and who are lacking facilities to broaden the kids' experience, to teach the children and to help the children develop fully in the proper sense. Their Australian Assistance Plan grant has finished and the group was encouraged to proceed with an application for a grant through the Office of Child Care. It was learnt yesterday that this grant had been turned down. To add to the confusion the Minister has informed the KAN people concernedthe Kids' Activity Newtown peoplethat the State should take responsibility. But New South Wales has not accepted responsibility as no other State can because of the difficulty with funding especially in the present atmosphere of uncertain funding from the Commonwealth to the States. 
The people have been offered a once-only grant of $5,000 which, in fact, will preclude them from receiving funding from other sources within the Department of Social Security. I personally believe that this is a shabby offer and I believe that further bi-partisan approaches will be made to the Minister by members on both sides of the Parliament who support this scheme and other schemes of this type which were developed through the Australian Assistance Plan. I do not believe that a negative approach helps in many of these areas. Therefore, I am requesting honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to support the motion I have moved that the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should introduce legislation to provide for the statutory establishment and funding of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
-I present the following peitition from 3578 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of Sydney respectfully showeth that the discontinuation of funding for 'kids activities Newtown, Magic Yellow Bus ' has deprived the community of a successful program serving an area of great need. 
Our petitioners humbly pray that urgent reconsideration be given to the decision by the Minister for Social Security so that continuity of the program can be maintained. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Does the Minister recall that during the debate by the Senate on the Estimates last year I predicted the closing of offices of the State Councils of Social Service and staff reductions, and was informed by the Minister that I was mis-stating the situation? Does she also recall that  Mr Fraser,  as Leader of the Opposition, chided the Labor Government for giving insufficient funds to those offices, drawing the inference, if I remember correctly, that the Labor Government refused to countenance alternative welfare policies? Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Council of Social Service is about to close its office because its funds for the year have run out and no further funds are forthcoming from the Federal Government or the Queensland Government? Will the Minister reaffirm the clear commitment that she and her Government gave to the survival of the State Councils of Social Service? Will the Government investigate their financial situation and make sure that they can carry on for the rest of the financial year? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security give a guarantee on behalf of the Government that under the legislation introduced last year to provide for automatic indexation of pensions and benefits to consumer price index increases pensions and other benefits will continue to be indexed to the full CPI increase in the future and that the Government will not introduce legislation to provide for less than the full increase for any pensioner or beneficiary? 
-We have heard several speakers in this debate on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. Several of them, including  Senator Wright, Senator Cavanagh, Senator James  McClelland and, at great length,  Senator 
Harradine, have pointed out to us the great inconsistencies in what some members of the present Government said in 1974 and what they are saying now.  Senator Harradine  spoke at length about what they were saying then, what they are saying now and what he is saying now. The proposal for simultaneous elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives has been a part of the platform of the Party to which I belong since 1961. In 1974  Senator Harradine  was a member of the State Executive of the Party to which I belong. He was a member of the Party which worked hard to try to get the referendum through in 1974. I concede that he may have done very little towards achieving that aim. We have not heard what  Senator Harradine  said publicly in 1974 about this principle. As he has thrown out the challenge and dared anyone on this side of the chamber to deny that Caucus voted 27 to 23 against deferring this referendum I shall deny it. The Caucus meeting did not discuss this referendum. It did not vote 27 to 23 against deferring it. 
The Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1977 is one of the 4 Bills that are to be debated in the next 2 days to enable the electors of this country to vote on sensible changes to the Constitution of Australia. As occurs with all attempts in this and other countries to bring in sensible reform, whether it is legal, constitutional or social reform, there is always opposition. The more simple and sensible the proposal for reform is the more violent and dishonest will be the opposition. Many reasons will be given by the opponents to this referendum for their opposition to it but their ultimate motive is to retain the status quo in the interests of those who are protectced by it. We should remember that the introduction of pensions, workmen's compensation, universal franchise and democracy itself were all opposed by the sorts of people who are opposing this sensible and proper amendment to the Constitution. In the last 2 days in this chamber  Senator Wood  has advocated a return to the days of property franchise in elections for the Parliament. We should not be surprised at this because until a few years ago his Liberal Party colleagues in Tasmania defended property franchise in local government elections and resisted the change to adult franchise for elections for the Upper House in Tasmania. Some of them are still doing the same thing. 

 Senator Harradine, Senator Wright, Senator Missen and everyone on the other side of the chamber who has spoken in this debate have recognised that the proposed amendment to the 
Constitution is not being introduced for altruistic reasons. It is not being introduced because of a desire to improve democracy in this country or for any other reason. We realise it is being introduced for the very reasons that  Senator Harradine  mentioned. It is being introduced by a devious Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who achieved office by devious means and who hopes vainly that he will be able to maintain office by this sort of method.  His  deceit is now manifest to the whole population. I accept that the same Prime Minister whose cry 18 months ago was 'Let the people decide' is indirectly using this method to delay letting the people decide. The Opposition accepts that. But no matter what devious means the Prime Minister and his desperate colleagues have for proposing this and the other amendments to the Constitution now, the Labor Party has always believed- it has been in our platform and we stated this in 1974- that the long term results of this and the other proposals will be a more stable political democracy in this country. The result will be a Senate that is more representative of the current political views of the people.  Senator Harradine  made great play of the claim that the Senate should reflect public opinion. The simple fact is that under the present system the Senate at any time does not necessarily reflect current opinion. As elections become out of kilter and are more separated, so does the Senate even less represent the current political opinion of the public. 
-We will come to the Constitution very quickly. But I thought the honourable senator's Party was allegedly favouring these amendments. 
Perhaps you are being devious in this case as the Prime Minister is. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I have been listening most carefully to the debate. I do not think the honourable senator should impute such motives. 
-Do you wish me to withdraw? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- No. 
Do you wish me to desist? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
I will do so, out of respect for you,  Mr Deputy President.  The second result of the carrying of this amendment to the Constitution will be that we will cease to have elections as frequently as we have had them since the early 1960s. It is admitted that these elections disrupt the government of the country. Governments in Australia already have the shortest term of office of governments in any western democracy as they are elected for 3 years only. Governments in this country do not continue in office beyond 3 years unless they are re-elected. 
It may be unimportant to some that the government of the country is interrupted every 18 months or so by a half-Senate election with all the campaigning that goes on. But we believe a term of office of 3 years is the minimum reasonable time for a government to operate in this country. We have always held this belief, but we have never proposed that the Constitution should be amended to extend the term of office. We believe that the interruption of the working of a government every 18 months by the exigencies resulting from the need to go out and to campaign the way in which we campaign in this country is a bar to reasonable and consistent government performance. I also believe, as my Party believes, that it is extremely important for governments to make unpopular as well as popular decisions. Governments which have hanging over them the threat of a hostile upper House which may throw them out at any time or which must go to elections to maintain their majority in the upper House every 18 months will be reluctant, I submit, to take some of the difficult and politically unpopular decisions that they should make. 
We heard from  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators on his side that the Senate is essential to democracy in this country, that the written constitution is essential to democracy in this country and that the States are essential to our democracy also. A few thousand miles away there is a country which has no written constitution, no upper House and no States. No one in this place is seriously telling us that that is not a democracy. 
-New Zealand.  Senator Rae, Senator Wright, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Wood  certainly in this place have always been and remain consistent in their opposition to this measure.  Senator Wood,  as he demonstrated yesterday, still believes in the type of political representation that we had in the last century- a form of 19th century representation of property.  Senator Rae  at various times has expressed the view that the Senate should be a House of review. He has expressed the view, as 
I have heard fall from  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, that the Senate should not contain ministers.  Senator Rae  has expressed the view that we should use the Senate committee system more to make this chamber a truer House of review. On rare occasions he has crossed the floor to act independently, as he did earlier last year when his Government broke a specific promise to the pensioners of this country by its attempts to abolish the funeral benefit. 

 Senator Wright gave his standard couple of general reasons for his opposition to this legislation. He argued that the founding fathers were wise men. I agree that they were wise men. They thought seriously and deeply about the Constitution and they came up with a document that, I will agree with him, is a good document. But the founding fathers never suggested- and no one should suggest now as  Senator Wright  consistently advocates- that the Constitution is immutable and should not be changed. The founding fathers included a provision, awkward as it is, to change it. But  Senator Wright  consistently rises to praise the founding fathers for the great document and this great House that they produced. But there is a difference. It has been pointed out to  Senator Wright  a thousand times in this place- certainly many times since I have been a senator- that the founding fathers saw the Senate as a House of independents and not a party House. The Senate has never been a true House of independents and it is certainly not now. We have had some independents, some of whom were genuine and some of whom were spurious. But the Senate is overwhelmingly and always has been overwhelmingly a party House. 
Even  Senator Wright  does not act as an independent in this chamber. Usually when his sacred Australian Constitution is threatened with reform or someone threatens to change it.  Senator Wright  will act independently. But this happens very occasionally. He occasionally opposes the Government and he occasionally erupts over other matters which affect various interests that he has. I point out that, when the Government which he supports deliberately and specifically last year broke a promise which had been made only a few months earlier,  Senator Rae, Senator Bonner  and other Government senators crossed the floor, but  Senator Wright  did not; he did not even speak to justify himself. He sat in his place and did as his Government told him.  Senator Archer, Senator Townley  and  Senator Walters  remember well ex-Senator Bessell who made threats and expressed concern about the actions of the then Opposition in delaying the passage of the Appropriation Bills. 
He is here no longer. Obviously they want to stay here a bit longer; they have remembered what happened to  Senator Bessell.  They will all be, as the  Australian  calls them, 'revolting senators ' this afternoon. 
I respect you,  Senator, as  one of the senators who intends to rebel, who stays here and puts up with people like me. If other honourable senators have no desire to stay here and put up with people like me, I am afraid that I cannot remain silent in their absence. 
This Bill will be a sensible measure because it will halve the number of elections held in this country and so have a stabilising effect. We will still have elections every 3 years in this country for federal governments. Governments will not be able to go on and on without elections. I sincerely hope that that will never be the case. This legislation will considerably reduce the cost of elections, as  Senator Missen  has said, and it will give rise to more stable and sensible government in this country. It will avoid the disruption which occurs to governments every 1 8 months or so as a result of multiple elections. More importantly, it will mean that the Senate will more clearly reflect the current view of the people of the country.  Senator Harradine  described it as the public opinion of the time. This, I believe, is certainly a great advance on the present situation. 
Constitutional reform in this country is always difficult because of the methods that we must use to seek to change the Constitution and because people like those gentlemen who opposed the nexus referendum a few years ago can confuse the public with simplistic and dishonest arguments as were used then. I believe that Australia needs protection not from sensible constitutional reform but from the unthinking conservatism which opposes every form of constitutional reform, social reform or other type of reform that is ever put up in this country. I believe that this is not the only change that is needed in this chamber. We have had many colourful descriptions - 
Many colourful descriptions have been used in this chamber. I cannot quote one from the Government Whip, but I can quote one which I believe is used in  Mr Odgers'  book, namely, that the Senate is in some way a safety valve to let off the pressure in the boiler of the House of Representatives. Another is that it is a sieve; that it sifts the Bills as they come through. The most interesting description I read of this chamber was given by  Senator Carrick  in the 1973 debate on these very issues, when he described the Senate as the ruminant stomach of a cow in that it is a place where we can chew things over. But valves get stuck, sieves get blocked and the ruminant stomach of a cow sometimes gets filled with foul gases and the cow dies of bloat. That is what will happen to this Parliament if the Senate continues in the way in which it has been going in the last few yearsstopping sane, sensible and stable government, provoking elections in dubious circumstances and allowing itself to be manipulated by the irresponsible Premiers of States who will not replace dead senators or senators appointed to other offices with senators of the same party. 
I hear some of that gas exploding now. The Senate could be a House of review if it did not have Ministers and if it did not act irresponsibly, as it did in 1975. 1 agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that that irresponsible act in 1975 will mean that the Senate always will act as a party house. Any party which wants to be in government will strive very firmly to keep its majority in this chamber. Therefore it cannot be a House of review. Any government in power will be tempted not to make unpopular decisions to maintain that majority in this chamber. This proposition deserves support, despite the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has introduced it only for his own political gain. I believe that the long term benefit to this country will be such that even the- I will not use the adjective that I was going to use- behaviour of the Prime Minister and his Cabinet cannot detract from the general worth of this proposition. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security give an assurance that the processing of poverty data from the 1976 census will not be affected by further cuts in the already reduced allocation to the Australian Bureau of Statistics? As this was the most complicated census survey in our history does she not agree that it would be an intolerable waste of money if the poverty data were not available for proper social planning to be effected? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many (a) residential, and (b) day centres in each State are operated by the Rehabilitation Division of the Department of Social Security. 
) What are the staffing levels of each establishment. 
What are the patient levels at the same date. 
How many persons are on the waiting lists for admission to (a) residential, and (b) day centres in each State. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she recalls saying to me in answer to a question on 24 February last: 
The Government amended the Social Services Act last year to enable automatic indexation of pensions and benefits to be made in May and November of each year. The Government has no intention to amend further the Social Services Act. The amendments the Government has made will be upheld. 
Is it a fact, as reported, that  Mr Lynch  has announced that the Government is reconsidering this matter? If so, what has happened in the last 12 days to cause such a reconsideration in view of the Minister's very firm statement 3 sitting days ago? 
-Not being a very provocative sort of person I do not expect to have the same difficulties which the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  had. It is always interesting to follow the Minister for Science. It is. a pity we could not receive the great dissertation on science tonight. We are participating in the Address-in-Reply debate following the Speech by  Her  Majesty the Queen yesterday. The Speech by the Queen is usually an outline of the Government's policies and plans for future years. I can imagine the distress of the Minister for Science tonight and his determination to give us a lecture on science because when he read the Speech from the throne he found that there was no reference to any science policy in it. However, in view of the antics he gets up to at question time in this place I realise why the author of the Speech from the throne did not bother to include science in that Speech at all. We will hear at question time in the future, at great length,  Senator Webster's  science policy, whether or not that policy coincides with the Government's view. 
As I was saying, the Speech at the opening of the Parliament by the Queen or by her representative is usually an outline of the Government's future plans and policies. I have the great authority of  Senator Jessop  on this matter. He used those very words in his speech this evening. He said, in fact, that the Speech was a great outline of the Government's philosophies and policies. The Speech took  Her  Majesty the Queen 8 minutes to read at a very steady pace. It consists of 4 pages, sparsely printed. I submit that it gave the people of this country no idea of what the Government intends to do in the future. If that is all the Government intends to do in the future, the outlook for many people in this country is indeed bleak. I believe that the Queen was illserved by her supporters, especially those great supporters of the monarchy opposite, when yesterday she was obliged to deliver to the Parliament the Speech which we have in this document. Of course, it was written for her by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and, typically, is composed of empty rhetoric and platitudes. I suggest that the Queen's task is not made easier by having to mouth 8 minutes of words like these. The Speech is full of generalisations and all sorts of phoney reassurances to a divided community- honourable senators on the Government side in a debate here a fortnight ago admitted that it is a socially divided community- and a politically divided community. I see  Senator Scott  sitting in his place. He made the very point when he spoke in the debate on the referenda Bills. We are a troubled country. We are divided in many ways. We are troubled economically. I suggest that what appears in the Speech will not help the people in this country to be reassured. We should hear more speeches like the speech delivered by  Senator Lewis  this afternoon when he made his maiden speech. It was a more reasoned and reasonable speech which brought to the fore of the public mind some of the problems in society and suggested solutions to them. Even though some of us will not agree with those solutions I believe that we might end up with a better society if we had more such contributions. I congratulate  Senator Lewis.  I also thank him and congratulate him for being one of the people in the Senate who agrees that in the case of a casual vacancy an honourable senator should be replaced by a member from the same Party. It is a pity that all honourable senators opposite do not agree with that principle. It is a pity that all Premiers do not agree with it. 
Not all senators voted for the proposal. If  Senator Missen  has a look at the vote on that issue he will see that it was not unanimous. 
It was not unanimous. The only unanimous vote was in regard to the retiring age of judges as  Senator Missen  will find. 
Two years ago people did all sorts of things. But the vote on that referendum Bill was not unanimous. I suggest to the Senate that the author of this Speech, the Prime Minister, has always been consistent in his inconsistency ever since he became Leader of the Opposition and then Prime Minister. In fact, I suggest that he is the greatest dissembler this Parliament has ever seen. Having promised good economic management he has not produced it. Having promised to produce confidence in the society he has, in fact, created confusion and uncertainty. We heard  Senator Jessop  say in a speech here tonight that the people of this country knew from when the present Government was campaigning for Government that it would take this Government 3 years to get the economy back on its feet. But, in fact, on 26 November 1975 the Prime Minister said that the election of a Liberal-National Country Party government would give such business confidence that there would be a drop of some 200 000 in unemployment in its first 6 months.  Senator Cotton  was very courageous and said that within 6 months to 9 months unemployment in this country would drop to one per cent. That has not happened and we will go into that matter in detail later. 
This man, the Prime Minister, has abandoned almost every promise he made during the last election campaign to the community in general, particularly those promises made to the poor and underprivileged in this country. He has even abandoned promises he made after the election. 
He has abandoned plans and there has been a continuous change so that the business community, the working community, the Public Service and everyone in this community are in a state of confusion. He still believes that by making speeches, either out of his own mouth or by putting them into the Queen's mouth, by talking about commitment and concern, by talking in deep terms of concern and worry and by urging people to get out and work he will solve the problems in the community. Of course, he has now changed that view somewhat and decided, as conservatives so often do, that the best way to govern the country is to divide society and the country. We can see an example of that in the campaign being conducted at the moment against the trade union movement and others involved in trying to improve the conditions of wage earners in this country. In the Queen's Speech, as recorded on page 3 of  Hansard,  the Prime Minister put these words into the Queen's mouth: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern: 
Those famous words used so frequently by  Mr Fraser  - 
Commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people: and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
Almost 6 per cent of Australians are unemployed- 346 688 Australians- and we know also that there are many women and others in the community who do not appear in the statistics but who would work if suitable jobs were available or who would work if child care facilities were available. We know that the number of paying jobs in the community has not increased in the last year as it has increased in past years. We know that there are married women who previously worked who are now at home not working and do not appear in the unemployment statistics. We know that apprenticeships available are at a record low and that in New South Wales there are 1500 fewer apprenticeships than in past years in the building industry. Are these people making their own choices? Are they living their own lives in their own way, as the words of this Speech suggest? Have they the opportunity and equality that other citizens in this country have? Can they and their children look forward to the future with hope because of this Speech, a Speech which we are told is a blueprint for this Government's future actions? 
However, a worse aspect appears because we know that many on the Government side do not believe that there is any unemployment but believe that the unemployed are unemployed because of their own fault. We know that a senior Minister, the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  tells us that unemployment is a myth; and, because Party meetings have a tendency to leak, we know that today there was a concerted effort to ensure that, in the first place, the unemployment benefit and, in the second place, pensions in some cases would not be increased by the full consumer price index increase as was legislated for only 4 months ago. I understand that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has been successful in stopping this atrocity, in stopping the Government going back on legislation which it introduced only 4 months ago, in stopping the Government going back completely on one of the firmest promises it made in the last election campaign. We understand from the Press that there were no fewer than 1 7 people who got up at a meeting today and said that the unemployed should not get their increase while some said that pensioners should not get their increase. I dare say that in the next half of the year when, because of devaluation, the inflation rate will be 6 per cent or more, we will have the same cry. 
We have had this continual campaign against the unemployed and those receiving the unemployment benefit since well before this Government came into power.  Senator Jessop  tonight suggested that some 40 per cent of those on the unemployment benefit should not be receiving the benefit and should have it taken away from them. The unemployment situation is all the worse because of the high percentage of young unemployed and we believe that it is because of this callous disregard of the young unemployed that our divided society has the potential to become more divided. This increasingly large group already has been discriminated against by the Government in its harsh interpretation of the Social Services Act concerning school leavers in legislation introduced last December. This was done because some school leavers received the unemployment benefit and then went back to school. My Party does not advocate that people on school or university vacations should get the unemployment benefit. But we suggest that stopping all school leavers getting the unemployment benefit in order to catch the few who try to beat the system is immoral and discriminates severely against the children of pensioners and other poor people in the community who need this benefit so that they can dress adequately and travel to look for jobs in a society which has very few jobs for them. We have some 340 000 unemployed people in the community and there are about 25 000 job vacancies. There is an enormous gap, yet we hear continually from those on the Government side that all people on the unemployment benefit should not be receiving it because they do not want to work. I have suggested before, and I feel quite free to suggest again tonight in view of the ruling by the  Deputy President  and the learned discourse by  Senator Chaney  and others, that the Government's action is illegal and completely against the spirit of the Act. The Government is acting illegally and we suggest that it will act illegally in the future. 
What is of greater concern is that survey after survey here and overseas has shown the association between unemployment in the young and the severe social problems of juvenile crime, vandalism and, what may be more serious, drug trafficking in hard drugs and some of the soft drugs. I ask: Can the failure to do anything for the young unemployed foster the strength, independence and creativity of the youth of this country referred to in the Speech from the Throne yesterday. Almost 6 per cent of people in this community has no choice, has lost dignity and has lost esteem. These people have suffered loss of opportunity and self respect and, when nothing is done to relieve their plight, conditions can only get worse. Yet we still have senior Ministers saying that unemployment is a myth. We still have Ministers at question time in this place saying that they do not believe that people are unemployed in this community. 
The Speech by the Queen goes on to talk about social reform of fundamental importance to the people of Australia. Here the Speech mentions 2 reforms. The first was the family allowance scheme which was introduced last year and which we did not oppose. We do not oppose it now. However, the Speech did not mention that at the same time as this reform was introduced it was offset by the removal of the taxation rebates for children and more than offset by the introduction of the Medibank levy. Figures produced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  at the time demonstrated that 75 per cent of wage earners in this country, that is, those on average weekly earnings, those just below average weekly earnings and those just above who have 3 children or less- the vast majority of wage earners in this country- had a decrease in disposable income as a result of these moves. The Government knows this. The Government already has decreased the disposable income of people and intends to do so even more this year by its actions in the national wage case. 
The second social reform mentioned here tonight by  Senator Jessop  as well as in the Queen's Speech yesterday is, in the words of the Speech, a housing voucher pilot scheme' but which is more correctly called by the Department looking after it and by the Minister looking after it a housing allowance voucher experiment'. It is claimed that this scheme will enable low income earners to choose for themselves the accommodation most suited to their needs. I ask  Senator Jessop,  who obviously does not understand the scheme, and all other honourable senators to look closely at it. It is not a social reform; it is an experiment. It is an experiment which provides $70m over the next 3 years for only 1 500 families in 3 capital cities- Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart. Such an experiment cannot produce an increase in available housing in this country. In fact, it will bid up rents in areas of Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart which are already short of housing. It can do nothing for rural housing which is also a great difficulty in this country. 
The scope of how inadequate this experiment is- I repeat that it is an experiment- is demonstrated by the Henderson inquiry into poverty in this country which estimated that there are 125 000- not 1500- low income households in the private sector of the community which need rental assistance immediately. This experiment has received little public discussion. It will not involve most of the people who are in need. It does not involve only poor people. In fact, in the views of many of the housing co-operatives, particularly the Victorian people who have looked at the scheme, in fact it may discriminate against the very poor people. It is not a social reform; it is an experiment. It is the largest social experiment that has ever been conducted in this country. From the comments of the Prime Minister in the Address-in-Reply debate and at other times and, indeed, from the comments of the Minister for Social Security in the Senate who said one day that this scheme would solve a lot of our housing problems, it is obvious that they do not consider it as an experiment at all. They consider it as an established scheme. 
Similar experiments are being conducted in the United States of America. They have not been assessed. Preliminary results show that the take-up of the people who possibly can be helped under these schemes is about 14 per cent. There are questions unanswered about the scheme, and there are questions to which no one can see any answer arising out of this experiment. For instance, it will not help those people who are in need of emergency housing. I am sure that every member of Parliament realises the difficulty in providing emergency housing for people in the community. We all receive requests from people who need housing at short notice because they have lost their previous home. It is difficult to understand from a reading of the details of the scheme- that is, what details we can get about it- what will prevent most of the $75m winding up in the pockets of public officials who have to conduct it, screen the applicants, design the experiment, counsel the tenants and ensure that the people in the experiment have adequate housing and that they maintain that adequate housing. 
It is also difficult to understand how most of this money will not end up in the pockets of the landlords in areas which are already short of housing and who will naturally, in our system, bid up their rents. It is difficult to see how the privacy of tenants under this scheme will be safeguarded. This is of very great concern for many of the people who are concerned with welfare housing in this country. It is difficult to see what will happen after 3 years if it is decided that the experiment is not to continue. It is difficult to see how any experiment can be conducted when the people who are in it know that they are part of an experiment. We do not know how they will modify their behaviour. We do not know, when they realise that the experiment may last for only 3 years, what they may do and what they may think of the future. One wonders really whether a $75 m investment in private housing or in housing commission accommodation in areas of need not only in Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart but also in other areas may not produce a better result. This is an isolated experiment. It has received little publicity. The Parliamentary Library does not even have a copy of the outline of the scheme which has been given by the Department to some State governments and to some interested people in Melbourne and Sydney. I have been trying to get a copy of it for several weeks. Strangely enough, I received one only today. Every voluntary agency in this country has expressed doubts not only about the efficiency of the experiment but also about its morality and the propriety of conducting experiments like this. Nobody believes that it is a substitute for a housing policy. Nobody in his wildest dreams could call it a social reform. It is difficult to see how it will reform anything. 
The third paragraph of  Her  Majesty's Speech coming under the section dealing with social reform refers to the Income Security Review Committee which will report progressively to the Government on the rationalisation of income security programs, and on how assistance can first of all be directed to those most in need. Apparently, this is listed as a social reform. The other 2 schemes mentioned quite clearly are meant to be social reforms. This is also supposed to be a social reform. We are told that the Income Security Review Committee will report progressively to the Government. We are told continually in reply to questions in the Senate and in another place that such and such a problem has been referred to the Income Security Review Committee and that it is looking at the problem. The Income Security Review Committee seems to have become a dustbin into which all the too hard questions go. All the problems of income maintenance seem to have been referred to it at some time or other. But we have never received any public reports. We have never received anything from this Committee. Certainly, we have received no reports from it since this Government came to power. In view of the Government's previous record, we probably never will. 
We know that a Medibank Review Committee was set up. Suddenly new Medibank changes were introduced with disastrous results on the inflation rate and the consumer price index. Money was being taken out of the pockets of people in this country and their disposable incomes were being decreased. We never saw a report from the Medibank Review Committee. We understand that no report was made. Although it is claimed that the Medibank changes were made as a result of the report of this Committee, we understand that it had not completed its report when the Government brought in the changes. I believe that the Parliament and the members of the community in general should receive reports of this type as was the case when a Labor government was in power so that the people who have knowledge and the people who have some idea of what the problems are in the community, can discuss them and can put forward their views without radical changes in social policy suddenly being announced with no previous discussion except that conducted carefully within the confines of government. 
We know that we cannot plan properly in this country for future social welfare services of all types, including pensions and rehabilitation, until we obtain the results of some of the recent censuses so that we have some idea of what the problems are, where they are and how large they are. Yet the Government, in its mania for cost cutting, has removed $2m from the budget of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. We face the difficulty that this information vital to the future development in this area and vital to the future planning of this country is locked away and cannot be obtained. One reads in the newspapersthat is the only place one finds anything about what is going on in this Government- of a conflict between the Treasury and the Department of Social Security about the availability of this information. At the moment we are not getting that information. The Department that needs it is not getting that information and those people who are doing research, both in this Parliament and in universities around Australia, who badly need this information just cannot receive it. 
The whole approach of the Government, if this piece of paper is to be the future blueprint and plan of Government action for this community, will be a continuation of the sort of thing we have had for the last 15 months. We will repeatedly hear the Prime Minister exhort the consumers to consume, the producers to produce and the manufacturer to manufacture. When they do not respond, as they have not responded up to now, we will probably have petulant attacks on them for not responding to the great initiatives of government, initiatives that they cannot see. When the policies do not work, as they have not worked up until now, the Government will again need a smokescreen of the type that has been used until now, blaming the unemployed in the community for the troubles in the community, blaming the worker for not working hard enough, blaming the Labor Government for something it did 15 months ago, blaming everyone but the Government itself which has demonstrated that it has no coherent plan. There is certainly no coherent plan in this document. The Government has no real idea of where it is going and it has not had for the last 15 months. Only when the Government decides that it will take the people into its confidence and that the best way to get over the unemployment problem is to get people back into jobs rather than condemning the unemployed for being unemployed will we see a light at the end of the tunnel. It is only then that our society will be less divided. But I fear that in the future only a Labor government will do that. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is she aware that in the High 
Court in Melbourne yesterday the Commonwealth argued that unemployment benefits were a gratuity rather than a right? Is this the Government's view of all social service pensions and benefits? Can she give us some definition of 'gratuity ' in this context? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security confirm that there is a freeze on filling social worker positions in her Department? Is it a fact that in Victoria only two such country positions are currently filled? Further, in view of the social problems associated with long term unemployment, which are increasing in this country, will the Minister and the Government move more quickly to ensure that all such available positions are filled? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that the Commonwealth Government refuses to accept the requirements of the Tasmanian Government's Sub-Standard Housing Act? Is he also aware that the Commonwealth is the landlord of properties in Derwent Park Road, Moonah, in Hobart, which have no stoves, drainage or laundries, in contravention of the same Act? Is he aware that these properties are in many cases rented to middle-aged unemployed lone parents who are unable to find accommodation through the private market and that they are charged rental and also required to pay rates and taxes? Will the Minister investigate the situation to see whether it is reasonable that the Commonwealth should act as a slum landlord and refuse to comply with reasonable State legislation to bring the accommodation to the normal habitable standards? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the order of the day standing on the notice paper for 25 February 1977 relating to the motion that the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should introduce legislation to provide for the statutory establishment and funding of the Australian Assistance Plan be restored to the notice paper and be an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders 
Has the Minister for Social Security read the speech by  Mr Lynch  to the Liberal Party State Council on Saturday last in which he predicted the severe curtailment of welfare expenditure and the ending of some welfare activities in the next Budget? Which programs will be ended? In which areas will welfare expenditure be severely curtailed? What warning of the proposed cuts will be given to those affected so that they may consider their position and make representations to the Government? 
by leaveThe Opposition does not oppose the establishment of this experiment to see whether conditions can be improved in the Commonwealth Employment Service to assist the unemployed and people with particular employment problems. However we would like to put on record our concern that other improvements should be made to the Commonwealth Employment Service, to the conditions of those who work in the Service and in the services that it supplies to people who need help. We all know that some 245 000 people in this country are receiving unemployment benefit, that some 360 000 are registered as unemployed and that there are only 28 000 or 29 000 registered job vacancies. We know that the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service, like all other departments, has been affected by staff cuts and staff ceilings introduced by the present Government in its economy drive. We know also, however, that the staff level of the Commonwealth Employment Service was set at a time when unemployment was very much lower than it is now- in fact when unemployment was half or less than half the level now. 
In New South Wales employees of the Commonwealth Employment Service have taken industrial action. In fact they were refusing to take out statistical information required by the Government because they felt that this work was interfering with their ability to look after those who need or need advice on employment. Therefore we express some concern that the introduction of this sort of innovation may mean that such officers may have to work overtime. Their work load may be increased at a time when the level of unemployment in this community is rising and when the unemployed need assistance. In fact, they will continue to need assistance. Already one inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Norgard inquiry, is almost complete and we are now informed through the Press that an interdepartmental committee has been set up to inquire into people on unemployment benefit. Representatives of the staff of the unemployment bureau have put in claims for better conditions of work so that they are more able to perform the service required of them. Welcome as this present innovation is we would hope that it is accompanied by increases in staff ceilings and staff numbers in the Commonwealth Employment Service in order to help those who are unemployed and those who have employment difficulties. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the unemployment and sickness benefits section of the Department, particularly in Victoria. Is it a fact that a recent survey showed that only 7 per cent of telephone inquiries to the unemployment and sickness benefits section in Victoria are successful? Is it a fact that members of the staff in this section are having to work at least 2 nights a week overtime in almost every week? Is it also a fact that counter officers in this Department have been physically assaulted as a result, they believe, of the frustration caused by the present staff ceilings, and that legal actions are not taken against those who assault officers? Is it also a fact that the high turnover of staff in the section, the subject of question and answer between the Minister and myself earlier this year, is continuing? Finally, what progress has been made in the review of staff ceilings in this section of her Department, which is, as she knows, a growing area with the increasing number of people on unemployment benefits? 
I rise to question whether or not this debate should be resumed on another day. We have heard a statement which to me, and I think to most people, clearly implied that an accusation has been made against 2 journalists that a paper has been stolen from a senator's office. 
If one reads the statement,  Senator Sim  further stated that he suspected a copy of this report was removed from his office as one copy was missing and it appeared to him that the security of Senate offices was at risk. That is a  serious  accusation that it was stolen or that the journalists were dealing in stolen property. I do not know what else it could mean. Quite frankly, I am amazed that that accusation has been made. I am amazed that people on the other side are so sensitive about what is obviously some sort of a leaked document, however it was leaked. I have been in this Parliament for 3 years. I have heard the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and people sitting opposite now quoting from ministerial documents and from Cabinet documents which have obviously been leaked. It has become part of the life of this Parliament, no matter how much I or anybody else regrets it, and I think it is far too serious a matter to allow the debate to be adjourned. No one can make any other assumption from the statement of the  President,  with due respect, than that  Senator Sim  has made an accusation that someone has gone into his office and has stolen a document. One may legitimately say, 
I believe, that at last some of the leaks are coming back on the Party that used to make such a fuss of leaks and used them so effectively against the then Government. That Party does not like it and is kicking about it, but I am very concerned about what is normal journalistic practice in every country in the world. The journalists would not have been fulfilling their duty if they had not written the articles based on the document they received, however they received it. 
Are you suggesting they have stolen it? Are you suggesting that the document is stolen? If you do suggest that, stand up and say so. 
I am saying no matter how they received it. We have had the situation of the very same newspaper buying documents to use. 
I may not condone it, I may not like it, I may be very critical of it, but what concerns me is that this Senate and, with due respect, this  President  may be seen to be protecting a senator who has been caught outcaught out in Indonesia, as it happens. Are we allowing the  President  or this Senate to be used to try to protect someone who has been caught out, as we all have been or will be caught out in this place at some time? I think it is a serious debate and should not be adjourned to the next day of sitting. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the very real concern that she expressed about the uncertainty and anxiety created by speculation about cuts in the forthcoming Budget. As she said, the Budget is 5 months off and speculation at this stage should be an absurdity. Is it not true that since  I  last asked a question on this subject speculation has continued and in fact has been widened to include not only the field of social welfare but also education and defence? Has not this speculation been widened by speeches made by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister, such as the speech the Prime Minister made to his electorate yesterday when he said that expenditure would have to be cut and that the fields of social welfare, education and defence seemed the most likely areas for cuts to be made? I ask the Minister: Will this speculation not be stopped if the Treasurer and the Prime Minister cease making such statements or, alternatively, if they make a definitive statement about the Government's approach in the future Budget? 
-The Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill, which we are debating, concern the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. They allegedly extend for a further 12 months support given under the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. As most honourable senators know, the scheme is based on a maximum level of support of $2 a case for some 2 million boxes of apples sold at risk in Europe and in the United Kingdom markets and of 80 cents a box for 1 400 000 boxes of pears sold at risk on the same market. The scheme has been in operation for many years- 5 years, I believe- and has been of some assistance to the apple and pear growing industry. But as every  speaker  so far has said, it has not been of sufficient influence to prevent the continued decline of this industry. I do not intend to speak at length, nor have I any desire to go into great detailed descriptions and figures supporting my assertion that the industry has declined. I am sure others have done and others will do that. Nor am I certain that I have a complete solution to the problems of this industry and for the salvation of the growers whose livelihood depends on the growing of apples and pears. 
This legislation is an interim measure. It is to apply for one year only. It allegedly gives the same support to the apple and pear growers as has occurred in past years while restructuring occurs. I suggest that to say that the level of support is at the same level as for past years is to be misleading, to say the least. As the grower representatives have pointed out, to maintain support at the same level as applied in 1 976 in real money terms, taking into account inflation and increased costs, would involve a support of some $3.80 a case for apples. The amendment proposed by the Opposition and the amendment proposed by  Senator Wright  suggest that the level of support should be $3.00 a case. This would barely maintain the status given to the industry by the present scheme but I believe it would be a worthwhile measure for the growers and for the Government. It would give the Government time to work out what it intends to do for the industry. The Government may need this time, but I suggest it should not need this time in view of the fact that at the end of 1975, during the general election campaign, members and supporters of the present Government said continually that the election of a LiberalNational Country Party government would mean the survival and the increased affluence of the apple and pear growers, as well as other primary producers in the community. 
The Labor Party, and I believe most informed people in the community, have realised for a long time that commodity subsidies of this type certainly are not the answer to the problems of the apple industry or of any other rural industry. I do not think anyone is suggesting that subsidies present a long term answer for the survival of any primary industry in this country. They may sometimes be necessary as a short term measure to overcome crises in an industry, but the long term use of such subsidies, I suggest, has not had a proper effect on any industry. In fact, it tends to distort industries. Because subsidies are based on production levels they assist mainly the large producers who may need no such help or who may need only a small amount of help. If we take the principle of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government, that help should go only to those who need it, I suggest that commodity subsidies of this type should go to those who can prove they need it. 
I am not suggesting that people in the apple industry cannot prove they need the subsidy. But particularly from the National Country Party we have support for commodity subsidies on an across the board basis- on a production basis. Of course, as  Senator Walsh  interjected, the superphosphate bounty is an excellent example of a subsidy which has gone to those who need it least. I was interested to see that  Senator Tehan  was rather surprised and, I gather, rather offended that the Labor Party should propose an amendment such as has been proposed in this place and the other place. He drew an analogy between what we are doing in this industry and what we did to the dairying industry and pointed out how we removed certain subsidies from it. Of course,  Senator Tehan  did not point out that the present Government in its term of office has not reinstated these subsidies for the diarying industry and has not suggested to us how those subsidies were of any use in the long term to the dairying industry in this country. In fact, in the years when commodity subsidies were the basic and the only form of support provided by previous LiberalNational Country Party governments, the number of rural producers in this country halved, the proportion of our population in the cities doubled and the only achievement of many of the subsidies, as I and many other Opposition senators have suggested and, in fact, as Government supporters have suggested, was to give a false sense of security to industries and to some producers. I think that the dairying industry provides a very good example of an industry in which this happened. 
I submit that we need reconstruction in the apple and pear industry as we need it in other areas. I seems likely that we may have to tailor production in this country to our own markets and to our potential markets.  Senator Wright,  in his suggested amendment, mentioned specifically the non-European markets. I agree with him that we must find a means to penetrate the Asian and Middle East markets. But in the meantime, I suggest that we need sympathetic and practical assistance to enable to keep going those who cannot continue until such a situation is brought about or to assist those who are unable to change their activities or employment. We need to give sympathetic and practical assistance to those people to enable them to overcome the intervening period of difficulty. Payment of commodity subsidies may be the only way to do it in this industry. But if they are paid, they should be at a reasonable level. They should take into account increases in inflation and costs. It should be obvious that, in fact, such subsidies are a short term measure. If necessary, they should be resubmitted to the Parliament every 12 months. 
In the present economic climate of this country, which I would suggest is the result of the Government's policy to deliberately increase unemployment, the opportunity of apple and pear growers or anyone else in my district to change or diversify their activity is almost nil. It is beyond me, and I am sure it would be beyond anyone, to understand how any apple and pear grower in my town could consider divesting himself of his interests and changing his employment in a district where already in the next couple of months another textile mill will be closing putting 300 people out of work. It is impractical to say blandly to these people: 'Go and diversify; go and do something else'. As I said, in 1975 Government supporters told apple and pear growers in Tasmania with considerable vehemence that after a Liberal-National Country Party government won the election they would be looked after. They would retain the independence that it was claimed was so important to them. 
Last year we were assured in the Senate in debate on the same legislation that the Government was extending the stabilisation scheme for another year while it prepared plans to restructure the industry. I suggest the Government has done nothing. I see no evidence that the Government intends to do anything except ask the States to supply further funds for supplementary assistance to growers. I believe this is federalism at its worst. I believe that this industry and other national rural industries are, in fact, national responsibilities. To push such a responsibility onto the States and not supply any funds for the States to do these things is irrational and wrong. For years, fruit growers in Tasmania have been told that if they wished to maintain their independence and if they wished to avoid what was called socialism they should vote for the conservative parties and that these parties would ensure that the government would look after them. Since this Government came to office, we have had the edifying situation of Tasmanian members of Parliament berating their Government and berating their Prime Minister. We have heard about midnight rows in the Parliament and abuse of members. This has achieved nothing. The fruit growers are very concerned about this. One fruit grower said to me at the weekend: 'We have listened to the sorts of things that have come from the Liberal and National Country Party governments. We have been told that we can retain our independence only by voting for them. But, in fact, we now have no independence and for the first time we will have to look at some of the proposals that are put forward by the Australian Labor Party'. This gentleman admitted to me that ideological prejudices or philosophical prejudices had prevented them looking at any of the Labor Party's proposals in the past. 
It is obvious that any change in the apple industry will take a long time. It takes years and money to change the varieties of apples. The development of new and modern storage facilities takes money, as does the development of transport techniques. It also requires much scientific investigation in many cases. I suggest that we have no indication from the present Government that any reasonable assistance will be given in any of these fields to the apple industry. It is no good for Government senators to berate the wharf labourers or the transport drivers. I add that noticeably the shipping companies themselves are never abused. It is also no good for Government senators to berate any of the other employers and blame them for the difficulties of the apple industry. 
I believe that it would be worthwhile to hear comments from the Government on the Prices Justification Tribunal findings and charges against such shippers as Patrick Operations Pty Ltd and Seatainer Terminals Ltd. Those findings demonstrate that the very real problems in the transport of apples and other Australian products do not in fact just lie at the feet of wharf labourers or the fellows who drive the trucks. It is utterly wrong to lay the blame for the troubles in this industry on those who labour on the wharf, who organise and look after their interests and at the same time tell the fruit growers that the disorganised marketing system we have had for years is a free enterprise system and the best system. They cannot be told that the system of multiple labels we have had in Tasmania for years was a sign of independence and improved our marketing abilities and that any attempt to organise or to interfere at government level was socialism. 
I can remember when living in England being able to buy South African apples labelled as such and New Zealand apples labelled as such. But the only way I would find out whether apples came from Tasmania or Western Australia was to look at the bottom of the labels to the small print which gave the various brand names or the various growers' names. We have to face the fact that our growers compete with South Africa and New Zealand in particular which market apples as countries. Those countries do not have various State marketing systems competing with each other. They do not have various company organisations competing with each other in the same markets. I suggest that it is equally futile for Government senators, as we heard especially in the debate last year, to rail against the tree pull scheme, a scheme that was introduced by their own Government- a conservative governmentto try to rationalise the industry. It is ridiculous to rail against this scheme and to say how terrible it is but at the same time not come up with any reasonable suggestions about how to get rid of apples and pears we are growing and how to get into the markets which  Senator Wright  correctly wants us to get into to sell the excess apples we have. 
I believe very strongly that both parties in this Parliament have some very hard decisions to make on the future of all industries in this country, and I think that is obvious to everyone. We have to decide what industries, be they rural or secondary industries, we will have in this country and are willing to support. We have to decide where those industries will be and at what level they will operate. We have to decide where they will sell their goods and what assistance we will give them to sell their goods. Governments in this country must assist to regulate industries and to decide where the industries will be, in the way the Japanese Government and other efficient governments in Asia do. It is wrong and futile for people in this country to stand up and say: 'That is socialism; that is unnecessary government interference '. Without that mutual assistance between government and industries a lot of our industries will be in strife and a lot of them will go to the wall against competition from countries which market efficiently, which organise their industries efficiently, and whose governments make sure that the industries act in the national interest. 
We have heard suggestions that apple growers should diversify- we heard it from  Senator Thomas  from Western Australia- but Tasmanian apple growers, as those of us from Tasmania know, do not have the same opportunities to diversify as the Western Australian growers. Their holdings are usually not as large and the number of crops they can grow as an alternative to apples is limited. We have to make basic decisions in this country on what size apple industry will be supported in Australia, particularly in Tasmania, and I suggest that that is a national problem. We must decide objectively what is the best means of marketing our crop and where to market the crop, and I suggest that that is a national problem. We cannot have the situation which we have had in the past, and which we have at the present time, of the States going in different directions. We cannot have competition between States for the same market. That situation is considered to be absurd by other countries, and marketing forces in other countries take advantage of the situation. I suggest that we cannot let philosophical or ideological assumptions blinker us when we are considering this problem. We cannot go back to the days of Adam Smith, when the best way to run any market was to let everyone go hell for leather and the weak would fall and the strong would rise. 
While these questions are being answered- I suggest that they have not been answered until now, and I include my own Party in that statement; we have not got the full answer to the problem- I think it is reasonable to support those who are in the industry now. The industry in Tasmania has declined considerably in the last 15 years. I was in practice in an apple growing area when the fires of 1967 devastated that area. It was said commonly by knowledgeable apple growers in the area that in fact the fires were a good thing for a lot of apple growers because they burnt out a lot of small uneconomic growers who then received assistance and therefore had a way to get out of the industry. Those are harsh words, cruel words, but from the information I had and from what I saw I believe that in fact it was true. 
The basis of the Opposition's amendment is that the rates under the stabilisation scheme should be increased for another year while the Government decides, on the information it has received from the Industries Assistance Commission, from its own departments and from the growers, just what the future will be and what the level of support will be. I suggest that the solution will not be found in long term commodity subsidies, and I am sure that many in this place would agree with me.  Senator Wright's  amendment in fact puts much the same thing but is much more specific in its reference to what the long term solution will be. It mentions only the necessity of assisting the industry to develop nonEuropean markets. It may be that those nonEuropean markets will not be as easily developed as we think. It may be that we will have to cut down the size of the industry to a size which will support the domestic market and that in future our overseas market will be limited. The apple and pear growers, certainly in my State, have little alternative but to use their land to grow apples and pears. As I said before, alternative crops are not always easy to grow and the holdings are not always big enough to form economic units. Those growers have also seen the difficulties experienced by their colleagues who shifted from sheep to cattle and back to sheep and over to dairying as there were booms in the various industries. 
This is a small industry and a very confined industry in Australia. It is an industry which should be studied carefully. It is an industry in which it should be possible to arrive at reasonable solutions which treat everyone fairly. If that can be done successfully in the apple industry we may point the way to a means of successfully stabilising and re-organising and reconstructing other agricultural industries in this country. The old system has failed. The system of continuous commodity subsidies has failed. Both systems continue to fail, and I suggest that there is no light at the end of the tunnel for those people who are growing apples and pears in my State and in many other States. Therefore this Government should continue the stabilisation scheme at a proper upgraded level, as has been suggested in both the amendments. It should then come down with concrete plans on what to do for the future of this industry. It cannot go on in the way it is. Each year at this time members on both sides of Parliament get up and quote endless figures and suggest endless solutions, but none of us are experts, and in fact we cannot leave it to the experts altogether. We have to leave it to a combination of expert opinion and grower opinion, and as a Parliament we must do our duty. We must look at those opinions and solutions and decide what solutions the country can afford and what solutions are most satisfactory in order to give a socially just result to the people involved in the industry. We must decide on a plan for the future, and then there will be some justice for the people who have grown apples for so many years, and for the taxpayers who are now subsidising the apple and pear growers at a considerable level. We will then have a stable and reasonable future for the people involved in the industry in Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security in her capacity as Minister holding that portfolio and also as the Minister representing the Minister for Health. If bulk billing facilities for pathology and medical services are abolished by the Government, will many pensioners and other low income earners be forced to pay for those services in cash and then seek reimbursement from Medibank or their private health funds at a later date? Is the Minister not concerned that such an imposition could discourage many persons with low disposable incomes from seeking medical treatment, particular/y if they have one or more members of the family chronically ill? Does she consider that such a decision by the Government is in accord with tire recommendations of the third main report 6f the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty which strongly pointed out that one of the problems associated with low income families with chronic illness was the necessity to have cash ready to obtain health care? 
-We are debating the motion moved by  Senator Gietzelt  which seeks to establish a Senate select committee to investigate the problems associated with the conflicts in East Timor and the subsequent difficulties that have arisen with the provision of aid to East Timor and the care of refugees from that area. In addition to this, of course, the fate of the 6 Australian journalists who were killed in East Timor is included as a matter of obvious importance to this country. I am disappointed that the Government is taking the attitude that it is. It is completely opposed to any inquiry being conducted by this Senate. I expected from the Government an amendment of the type moved by  Senator Missen  and seconded by  Senator Bonner  which questions the necessity for a select committee. 1 would even have expected a motion which perhaps altered the terms of reference of the proposed select committee. 
I am disappointed, as I said, that we are faced with a blanket refusal of the Government to consider the establishment of such a committee it seems because we may offend the sensitivities of the members of the Indonesian Government. It also concerns me that from debate in this House and from discussions outside that foreign affairs debates in this country and in this Parliament seem likely to revert to the sort of blind, prejudicial type of debate we had in the 30 years leading up to 1972- the sort of debate and attitudes that led to our involvement in Vietnam and the unnecessary death and destruction that came out of that and the ridiculous situation which applied up until 1972 when this country did not even recognise the existence of China and the government of that country. I am disappointed that, if our discussions on foreign affairs are to revert to the sort of situation where debate is based on suspicion and blind prejudice against anyone who is considered to be communist or procommunist, our international relations will go backwards as I believe they did in those 30 years. 
It seems to me that the Government's arguments in this debate against any inquiry of this type can be listed under 4 headings. The first argument which was put rather strongly by  Senator Withers  a week ago was that East Timor is not a special case, that there have been other examples in the world of internal and external aggression with all its evil results- I believe he mentioned Angola, Chile and all sorts of other places- and that, therefore, we should not be particularly concerned about East Timor. The second argument which seemed to be the basis of  Senator Scott's  speech was that our relations with our near neighbours are important and that such an inquiry may, in fact, upset the basis of such relations. The third argument seemed to be that such an inquiry may inhibit the availability of aid to East Timor or the ability of refugees to leave East Timor.  Senator Knight,  in his thoughtful speech tonight, made some note of this. The fourth argument seems to come from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  It is that the Senate does not have the capacity to conduct such an inquiry successfully. 
I do not concede that such objections are valid. I believe that it is worthwhile looking at such objections one by one. The most specious argument is the first, that East Timor is not a special case to us. As many people have pointed out, the country is one of our nearest neighbours. Six Australian journalists were murdered during the early part of the conflict. We had a special relationship with the East Timorese people during the Second World War. In fact, members of the Parliament served in that area and were protected and helped by the East Timorese in a very gallant way. There are Timorese refugees in Australia. They would like to have their relatives here with them. We are charged with the responsibility of caring for some of these refugees. The whole situation is occurring on our doorstep. We have as much a special interest in East Timor and the areas around it as we have in New Zealand or any other country in the region. The argument becomes more demonstrably false when we consider the second argument which was the  basis of  Senator  Scott's speech. He said that Indonesia is a near neighbour. We have a special interest in keeping good relations with Indonesia and, therefore, we should refrain from setting up a committee such as this as it might disturb those relations. 
I accept that it is extremely desirable that we have good relations with all our near neighbours. But those relations should not cause this country to ignore the implications of actions by any of its near neighbours. Nor do I believe that we should be intimidated by threats of demonstrations against our Embassy in Indonesia if we do not desist from criticising or questioning the actions of the Indonesians and considering their implications on this country. We in the Parliament should not be affected by members of Parliament talking privately with the Indonesians and speaking to them in terms contrary to their own Government's policies. We should not be affected by State Premiers cabling or writing to Indonesian authorities encouraging them to indulge in the sort of thing that has happened in East Timor. Good relations involve straight talking between neighbours and depend on mutual respect between neighbouring countries. I can see nothing in the inquiry suggested by  Senator Gietzelt  which would militate against good relations between countries if those good relations have a sound basis. 
In the third argument against such an inquiry which has been used in this debate it is said that such an inquiry may inhibit aid to East Timor and our ability to evacuate refugees from East Timor. One of the aims of the proposed committee is to look into the problem of the refugees, the difficulties which are arising in getting aid to 
East Timor and the difficulties we have in knowing whether the hundreds of thousands of dollars in aid that we are spending to help the East Timorese people are, in fact, reaching those people.  Senator Knight  made a point of this issue. He expressed a hope that the Indonesians would allow the Internationa] Red Cross and other organisations to enter East Timor to assist in the rebuilding of the country and the evacuation of refugees. He gave no evidence- I can see no evidence and I do not believe that anyone else can see any evidence- that the Indonesians will have a change of heart and suddenly allow us to enter the country somehow and assist the people there. I see no basis to this argument unless the Government has been threatened by the Indonesians that if it goes ahead with its criticism and with inquiries such as the one proposed they will not let anybody into the country and they will keep everyone out. Neither  Senator Withers  nor  Mr Peacock  has suggested to the Parliament that that has happened. 
To suggest that the Senate does not have the capacity to conduct such an inquiry is nonsense. I am glad that  Senator Knight  suggested that it may be nonsense. We have had inquiries into our affairs with other countries before. In fact, we had one involving Indonesia. There are compelling reasons why we should have such an inquiry. Some of them have been brought out even by the opponents of the establishment of the proposed committee. The first argument is the one I used earlier, that the East Timor affair has occurred on our doorstep. It has concerned a lot of people in this country. There have been widely conflicting reports. Widely conflicting accusations and many assertions have been made- some may be substantial; some may not- from this country, from Portugal and from Indonesia itself. They are made daily. It is important that some attempt be made to clear the air on this issue so that we all know what is going on and what we may be able to do about the situation. 
Serious accusations have been made in this debate, by  Senator Scott  for one, about the alleged complicity of the Government of which I was a supporter and, in particular, its leader,  Mr Whitlam.  They have been made without supportive evidence. It is important that that sort of accusation which is thrown around in and out of this Parliament be investigated and considered by this Parliament. Serious assertions have been made about the present Government's attitude in this affair and the attitude of the present Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Indonesian-East Timorese situation. They are made in the Press; they are made in the Parliament. I have no idea of the validity of the evidence that has been produced but surely it is up to the Parliament to consider that evidence. Serious accusations have been made against public servants, as  Senator Knight  said. I do not share his complete abhorrence of the idea that public servants should be responsible for some of their actions. But whether  Senator Knight  or I like it, these accusations have been made. They have been documented within and outside this Parliament. It is surely up to the Parliament and the Senate to investigate the validity of those accusations and to see what we should do about them. 
Serious claims have been made about the death or murder of the six Australian newsmen. These accusations are of vital concern to all Australians. They are of particular concern to the families of those journalists and their colleagues in this country. I believe this Senate and this Parliament should look into this situation and see whether we can get to the truth and find out what happened. 
At the moment we have no idea of what is happening in East Timor and no accurate idea of what has happened to the people of East Timor since the takeover by Indonesia. Many claims are made about what is happening there, about atrocities and murders, about looting and killing. They are frequently conflicting. People in this country are very concerned about those reports because of our very special relationship with East Timor. They are not only left wing activists, as has been suggested by some people. It has been demonstrated in this Parliament that people with all sorts of political philosophies are concerned about the happenings in East Timor and Australia 's part in what has happened there over the last 1 8 months. Claims have been made, even by  Senator Withers  and others, that perhaps 8000 to 10 000 people have been killed. I noticed in the Press this morning that  Mr Adam  Malik was reported as having said that 50 000 people, perhaps up to 80 000 people, had been killed in East Timor. 
Australia has sent, and is sending, aid worth some hundreds of thousands of dollars to the Indonesian Red Cross for East Timor. There are grave doubts, as  Senator Knight  suggested, as to whether this aid is reaching the people it is supposed to reach. The Australian Government, using the law of this country, is preventing direct communication between people in East Timor and their representatives and colleagues in this country. We must ask ourselves whether this is just and humane. Part of the suggested inquiry would be an investigation of this matter. 
It is reasonable that this Parliament, this Senate, should look into those problems. All these things can be looked into by the suggested committee. Not all of them may be capable of solution but at least we can attempt to look at them and attempt to come to conclusions and attempt to see what we should do in future situations like this. I suggest that if our relationships with Indonesia would be affected by such a committee then they are not on a very good basis at the moment. Our so-called good relationships with that country may be merely a facade if the setting up of a committee of this Senate to investigate what is going on in East Timor is going to tear them apart. 
The tragedy of East Timor is an example of the sort of tragedy which is all too common in our time. It is the sort of tragedy which occurs when big countries interfere in the affairs of small countries in order to try to influence the future of small countries. I would point out the obvious; that this phenomenon of interference of big countries in the affairs of small countries is not the prerogative of any political system. The United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are obvious examples of this sort of thing occurring. But this tragedy has happened on our doorstep. There are suggestions by serious people, by concerned people in this country, not all of them in one political group, that we, as a country and as a government, could have done something to prevent this tragedy. There is a suggestion by many concerned people that we, as a country, could bc doing more to assist the victims of this tragedy. 
Surely it is worth looking into these things. Those who take the simplistic view that anyone who is violently anti-communist is good and must be supported and that we should turn a blind eye to any immoral or illegal act by any such country, or to any unjust behaviour by any such country, will oppose the setting up of this committee. Such people would support men like Duvalier of Haiti or Battista of Cuba in all their abuses against humanity. If the proposed committee can clear the air a little on East Timor, if it can turn up some small skerrick of the truth, then I believe it would be worth while. If it could add to the chances of this country taking a more positive line in future situations like this, no matter which political party is in government here, I believe it would be more than worth while. If the proposed committee stirred the consciences of the people in this country and assisted the people in East Timor even in a small way it would have achieved more than anyone else has achieved since the East Timor problem arose. 
As I said before, it would be a great pity if debate on foreign affairs in this country goes back to the simplistic days we had before. It would mean that this country would go back to being involved in or a party to the sort of excesses we had in Vietnam. I believe very strongly that we, with other small countries, should show active interest and take an active part in the rights of small countries and in the rights of small nationalities and minorities. The Parliament cannot avoid and should not avoid looking closely al our international relationships, lt should not avoid looking closely at the conduct of those who conduct those international relationships, be they members of this Parliament or be they be public servants. These people are charged with carrying out those relationships and we, parliamentarians, are charged by the people of this country with keeping a watching brief over the conduct of our international relationships. 
I believe that to refuse this inquiry or an inquiry like this is to refuse to be involved in the affairs of our region whenever it becomes uncomfortable for us to be involved in our region. Such an attitude is one of appeasement. Such an attitude is completely untenable to me. I support the motion moved by  Senator Gietzelt  and in the event that it is not passed I would support, as second best, the amendment moved by  Senator Missen. 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's illegal and unfair actions in depriving the unemployed of employment benefits. 
In moving this motion regarding the matter of urgency today, I, on behalf of the Opposition, believe that I am moving for discussion on a very important subject, a subject important to this whole country and a subject of great importance to this Parliament. The matter of urgency, namely the Government's illegal and unfair actions in depriving the unemployed of unemployed benefits, is moved, firstly, because of the Government's actions towards the unemployed in this country; secondly, because the number of unemployed in this country is rising each month, and the Government is taking no action to prevent the rise; thirdly, because of the Government's actions in depriving the Aboriginal inhabitants of Queensland of their rightful unemployment benefit by directives last year; and, fourthly because of the very great importance of the moment in view of the implications of the High Court 's decision in the Karen Green case in Melbourne on Friday last. I am aware that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and her Director-General stated in answer to questions from the Press that the High Court brought down a judgment and informal declarations and that until the declarations are made formal they will not give an indication of the Government's attitude, but they may make submissions regarding the nature of these declarations. Despite the fact that these declarations are not formal, Judge Stephen in his judgment made perfectly clear what the content of those declarations will be. He made perfectly clear in the draft declarations what he intends to do and what he intends the Government to do. 
The only thing which may be in dispute is the actual wording of the declarations. Those declarations were, firstly, to request the DirectorGeneral of Social Security to consider the case of Miss Green- I will come to others later- in view of section 107 of the Social Services Act and not on the basis of some blanket decree or declaration by the Director-General of Social Security; secondly, the fact that the claimant, Karen Green, had left school should not be the only decisive factor in determining her eligibility for unemployment benefit. There is no doubt about what Judge Stephen said in his judgment. There is no doubt as to what Judge Stephen intends in his declarations. In this case the Government has been caught out. It has been caught out in a shoddy attempt to bypass the law on the payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers. The High Court ruled that the Director-General of Social Security, acting under Government instructions, exceeded his powers in denying unemployment benefit to all school leavers for up to 3 months. The Opposition repeatedly asserted that this was the case. The Court agrees. I suggest that to this Government's record of incompetent and insensitive treatment of the young unemployed in this country can now be added illegality. 
The case of Karen Green involved a 16-year- old Hobart girl who had been refused unemployment benefit under the harsh and all-embracing decree issued by the Director-General of Social Security regarding school leavers. There was nothing unusual about Miss Green's case. I will quote from page 10 of  Mr Justice  Stephen's judgment: 
I must, I think, infer that very many other school leavers would have been in precisely her position. 
She had left school and was seeking work and was unemployed. At page 14 of the judgment  Mr Justice  Stephen said: 
The state of being 'unemployed' 1 regard as satisfied as soon as the student leaves school, with the intention of not returning but, instead, of entering the work force, and begins to seek employment. 
The Court has ruled in this case that the Government's actions did not comply with the provisions of the Social Services Act of 1947. We submit that the same must apply to thousands of other school leavers. Of the Government's claim that it took this action to prevent abuses of the Act,  Mr Justice  Stephen at page 19 of his judgment in relation to prevention of abuses of the Act succinctly stated: 
. cannot be made the occasion for disregarding the statutory criteria of eligibility in favour of a requirement which finds no place in the legislation and the effect of which is to deny, for almost 3 months, to the great body of honest school leavers an opportunity to qualify for unemployment benefits. 
I suggest that we should look at the events which led up to this judgment and at other acts by the Government in dealing with the unemployed in this country. Before gaining office a campaign was commenced by members of the coalition parties to denigrate the unemployed. The term dole bludger was introduced. Time and time again we heard speeches casting aspersions on the  bona fides  of people receiving unemployment benefits. Great emphasis was made in the Prime Minister's policy speech about paying unemployment benefits to those who were genuinely unemployed and not to those who were lying on the beaches at Surfers Paradise and other places. I submit that since being in office the policy of the Government has been to maintain a large pool of unemployed to use as an economic tool. A campaign has continued to stigmatise the unemployed as misfits and idlers. 
In recent months we have heard members of the coalition parties denigrating the unemployed, suggesting that many of them were not worthy of the benefits they received and suggesting that the problems in this country were due to people who were receiving unemployment benefits when they should not. Finally, the 
Government decided to deprive many unemployed of benefits. This was done not by legislation but by the decree of the Director-General of Social Security under instructions from the Government. I suggest that the whole series of events has been a combination of mismanagement, of meanness and of arrogance. The treatment of school leavers is only one example of the Government's determination to make life difficult for the unemployed. In this case Judge Stephen has ruled that action illegal. A series of stringent and illiberal work tests was introduced early in 1976. An arbitrary decision was made to exclude from unemployment benefits for 6 weeks all those who had left jobs voluntarily for any reason. I would think that this action is now in question. In November 1976 the Government sought to reduce the number of people on unemployment benefits and the number of people registered for employment in the holiday period by directing managers of the Commonwealth Employment Service to reduce figures to 'rock bottom'. 
In February this year the Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Mr Whitlam,  tabled a minute from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations showing that Commonwealth Employment Service managers in Queensland had been instructed to take benefits away from Aboriginals who lived on missions and on government settlements. I suggest the Government has limited the opportunities of those who can least look after themselves, such as the young and the Aboriginals. The Government has limited the opportunity of these people to receive benefits when they are unemployed. Before the High Court the case for the Government asserted that unemployment benefits were a gratuity and not a right. The Opposition asserts that people in this country who are unemployed for no reason under their control and who are seeking work are entitled to unemployment benefits as a right. I suggest that the Government may have to change its view on this argument that unemployment benefits are a gratuity, in view of the judgment of  Mr Justice  Stephen. 
Despite the efforts of the Government to limit the number of people who register as unemployed and to limit the number of people who receive the unemployment benefit, the figures from the Commonwealth Employment Service showing those registered as unemployed are higher than ever and the number of unemployment benefits paid to people who are unemployed have increased month by month. There have been 135 000 more unemployment benefits paid so far this financial year than for the same time last financial year and that figure would have been higher had it not been for the restrictions placed on people receiving the unemployment benefit although they were unemployed. People may question the accuracy of the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. People may question the accuracy of the figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics although those figures year after year are comparable. However, the figures showing the number of unemployment benefits paid are absolutely accurate and that number is rising inexorably, a sure indication that unemployment is increasing in this country and that unemployment here is getting very much worse contrary to the experience in most other comparable countries. 
Instead of attacking the lack of jobs in the community, the Government has resorted to shoddy devices to exclude the unemployed from receiving the unemployment benefit. The Government's decision not to pay the unemployment benefit to unemployed school leavers in the school vacation was announced on 23 March 1976. This was a new provision. No justification for it can be found in the Social Services Act and in all the years that the Act has been in operation no one has asserted that such justification exists. The Opposition has repeatedly asserted that apart from the unfairness of such a move, no such power to do what the Government did exists in the Act. On 2 December last the Minister for Social Security was asked to table any legal advisings which the Director-General of her Department had used in drawing up his directive or had used to ensure that his directive was legal.  Her  response was to table an irrelevant opinion more than 10 years old concerning tertiary students on vacation, an opinion with which no one on this side of the House would disagree and an opinion which referred to tertiary students who were on vacation and who were going back to their studies. It was not an opinion which had any bearing on the paying of the unemployment benefit to school leavers. 
The Minister again was asked on 8 December 1976 to produce a relevant opinion relating to school leavers. She replied that she would seek such information and see whether it could be tabled. Nothing has been produced since. One wonders how such advice, if it exists, differs from the judgment of  Mr Justice  Stephen. 1 believe that questions must be asked about why the Government proceeded in this way without amending the Act. The Government's intentions were announced in March 1976. There was plenty of time to prepare and draw up legislation to amend the Act but the Government did not do so. We must ask why the Government did not use its obvious numbers in this Parliament to amend the Social Services Act so as to exclude school leavers if it felt they should be excluded in order to put the issue beyond doubt. Was this policy of excluding them by decree part of a policy to avoid legislation in this Parliament wherever possible? Was the Government ashamed of this policy in some way? Was it concerned about the reactions of its own members? Was the memory of its failure to pass legislation in this chamber to abolish the funeral benefit still fresh in the mind of the Government? Did it wish to avoid another humiliation in this Parliament? If that was the reason, I suggest that the Government has been humiliated in the High Court. 
A young girl, the daughter of a widow pensioner, who had never been in court and had never been in the public eye before in her life was courageous enough to take part in a High Court challenge to question the Government 's right to act in this way. And the Government was defeated. What has happened is that the Government has deliberately tried to by-pass this Parliament and has been exposed in its efforts to do so. I suggest that it may well be that such actions are Government policy. Cabinet decision No. 1615 of 9 October which found its way, as so many other documents do in this place, to the Press states 'except in special circumstances Bills should not be drafted unless they are necessary as a matter of law to achieve the desired purpose'. On 27 October 1976 the  Australian Financial Review  commented: 
The Legislative Committee of Cabinet . . . has effectively opted for procedures which would certainly limit the opportunity for parliamentary debate on legislation. 
Quoting from the minute, it said: 
The Committee has agreed that Parliamentary Counsel give particular attention in drafting Bills to the possibility of leaving to regulations details that are liable to frequent change. 
The  Financial Review  goes on to say: 
The combination of these changes of emphasis goes against much that has been preached by the Government about the importance of Parliament. 
Of course it does. We have had endless preaching, both when Labor was in Government and now when we are in Opposition, from honourable senators opposite about the importance of Parliament and the importance of the parliamentary process. Yet the Government is avoiding the parliamentary process by an arrogant and dictatorial attitude to legislation. 
The Opposition has never suggested that students on vacation should receive benefits, but equally it has always asserted that the way to correct abuses is to legislate or to take action under existing legislation. In denying benefits to all school leavers the Government has disadvantaged the less well off particularly- people like Karen Green and her mother- who need the meagre unemployment benefits that are paid to juniors to give them money for transport and clothes to be more easily able to seek work. In attacking the rights of school leavers, the Government has attacked- I suggest it has done so illegally- the largest single group and the fastest growing group in our large unemployed populationour youth. In metropolitan areas of Australia over one-third of our unemployed are under twenty-one though they make up only 12 per cent or so of the work force. In rural areas the percentage is higher. 
At the end of December 1976 there were 47 900 school leavers registered for unemployment. From November 1976 to the commencement of the school year in 1977, 34 455 school leavers applied for the benefit. Since the resumption of the school year 32 368 have been granted benefits. The figures are the Minister's in answer to a question. She claimed in answer to the same question not to be able to tell me how much has been saved by the Government's policy, perhaps in an effort not to tell me how much it will cost the Government if the judgment in the Karen Green case causes many thousands to be paid the unemployment benefits of which they were deprived. However, we know and every member of this Parliament knows how many thousands of school leavers were discouraged from registering with the Commonwealth Employment Service and who therefore do not appear in any of these figures. They were discouraged from applying for benefits by the Government's announcements and by the actions of a very few officers of the Department. 
It is not only the young unemployed who have been affected by the Government's policies. At times the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has shown an apparent concern for the very real problem of Aboriginal unemployment in this country. In April last year in the Parliament, in reply to what was obviously a Dorothy Dix question from a member of his Party, he mounted a spirited attack on the number of Aboriginals who were paid unemployment benefits under the Whitlam Government. This year he hopes, by underhand methods, to reduce the number of Aboriginals receiving unemployment benefits. 
I withdraw them and say that by incorrect methods or by dubious methods he hopes to reduce the numbers of Aboriginals who receive unemployment benefits. In 1973 when the previous Labor Government was in power an effort was made- not before time, I might add- to improve the real living standards of Aboriginals. One of the methods used was to make unemployment benefits available to Aboriginal people on the same terms as they were available to the rest of the population of this country. We considered Aboriginals to be members of the population of this country. If there was no work available in their areas they were entitled to apply for standard unemployment benefits, whether they lived in a small outback community, on a mission or on a government settlement, lt was their entitlement, unaccompanied by adherence to arbitrary rules of morals and restrictions and subject only to the work test. Because it was not possible to find money for work projects in every area where Aboriginals lived- it is still not possible to find money in all those areas- many Aboriginals quite correctly received unemployment benefits for the first time, and the numbers on benefits increased, hence the increased number of Aboriginals receiving benefits. Although many Aboriginal communities remained in ignorance of this right and others preferred not to take it, many did take the opportunity to increase their incomes and the incomes of their communities. 
The Government's new anxiety to reduce the number of jobless Aboriginal people receiving unemployment benefits on the list takes the form not of finding them work, not of seeking work projects to enable them to work, but of denying their eligibility for benefits. Nothing will be easier than for the Prime Minister to point to a smaller list of unemployed Aboriginals. All that the Government has to do by decree, ignoring the consequences to human dignity and hardship, is to reduce the number of people on benefits by declaring them ineligible for benefits. The Aboriginals in this situation are unable to fight back. The Government is looking for far more than improvement in the figures. It is hoping to save a few thousand dollars at the expense of people who already cannot fight back- those in the out of the way regions of Australia. In his policy speech the Prime Minister said: 
We will be generous to those who can't find work and want a job. 
He has been exposed by every action he has taken against the unemployed to be ungenerous and he has been exposed by the High Court to be using wrong and unlawful methods. 
-Perhaps the word 'illegal' is better than 'unlawful'. If you prefer the word illegal ' I will certainly use it. 
I bow to your superior judgment,  Mr President.  In backing the assertions I have made let me quote from the circular which was distributed on 27 January 1977 by  Mr K.  G. Cruice, the Acting Assistant Director of Employment Services in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. This refers to Aboriginals living in areas of Queensland. The circular states: 
Where claimants indicate that they are not prepared to work away from the mission or settlement and it is clear that there are no employment opportunities in that particular area, the claimant should be regarded as unavailable for work and lapsed from the register. 
Hence there would be an immediate drop in apparent unemployment in this country. This is not a condition imposed on unemployed nonAboriginals. Certainly it is not imposed on those with families in settled areas. It is even more obnoxious because the Government is aware of the strong ties Aboriginals have with their traditional land and with their traditional tribal and family structures. It is a changing area of attitude following the long years in which they have been encouraged to be dependent on the missions and settlements. 
I believe it is cruel and, in fact, shameful that for a marginal reduction of dollars and a marginal reduction in the numbers on unemployment benefits the Government pulls away the right of the Aboriginals to the unemployment benefit- an unemployment benefit, I might add, which already is below the poverty line. There will be a tendency to condemn the Aboriginal people so affected to indefinite dependency, to aggravate the conditions of sub-standard nutrition and health and to make it more difficult for any of them to break away from the miserable conditions in which many of them are found. However, the Government will persist in this attitude. It will persist in its attempt to reduce the number of Aboriginals on the unemployed lists, to reduce the number of school children on the unemployed lists, and it will make it more difficult for both these groups to seek jobs and to improve themselves. 
I suggest that unemployment is our most menacing social problem at the moment. The social evils associated with unemployment in the young- the increased incidence of drug taking, the increased incidence of crime, the sense of helplessness and of frustration, and the loss of motivation which chronic unemployment engenders in people- are aggravated both by the actions of some people in this community to rubbish and to denigrate the unemployed and the actions of the Government in depriving them of income support. The Opposition asserts that the Government's policy in the case of school leavers and in the case of Aboriginals was illiberal, unfair and aimed at those who are least able to look after themselves. The Government- and, I suggest, the High Court- agrees with the Opposition that the method of implementation of this denial of benefits was illegal and that government by decree should not replace government according to the law of this country. 
The Government has been exposed in a breach of its powers under the law and has been exposed to be in defiance of Parliament. We believe it has a moral obligation to redress the wrong it has done to thousands of unemployed. We believe those unemployed school leavers who registered for unemployment benefits and were refused benefits under the general directive of the Department of Social Security should have their cases reconsidered. In fact, in most cases, under section 107 of the Social Services Act, we believe they will be entitled to unemployment benefits. We believe it is in contempt of the rights and welfare of the unemployed and in contempt of the legal procedures of this land to conduct government business the way this Government has conducted it. We believe that this action by the Government has demonstrated that the Government not only has no concern for the welfare of the unemployed- for their need of income support- but also is unconcerned about the proper processes of this Parliament. I suggest that the Government has demonstrated itself to be corrupt in the true meaning of that word. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and concerns the announced inquiry into unemployment benefits headed by  Dr Myers.  I ask: To whom will  Dr Myers  be reporting? Will the report be made public and tabled in this Parliament? What matters will the interdepartmental committee, which is currently investigating unemployment benefits, cover that  Dr Myers  does not have in his terms of reference? When is the interdepartmental committee expected to complete its report? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
How many school leavers in the months of (a) November 1976, (b) December 1976, and (c) January 1977 (i) applied for unemployment benefit; (ii) were refused unemployment benefit; (iii) appealed against their rejection for unemployment benefit; and (iv) were granted benefit on appeal. 
How many school leavers (a) applied for special benefit; (b) were refused special benefit; (c) appealed against their rejection for special benefit; and (a) were granted benefit on appeal. 
What proportion of school leavers granted (a) unemployment benefit, and (b) special benefit, were mature age students. 
What estimate does the Government have of the money saved by not paying these benefits to school leavers. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) In the following electorates (a) New South WalesCalare, Cowper, Darling, Eden-Monaro, Farrer, Gwydir, Hume, Lyne, Macarthur, Macquarie, New England, Richmond, Riverina; (b) Victoria- Ballaarat, Bendigo, Corangamite, Gippsland, Indi, Murray, McMillan, Wannon, Wimmera; (c) Queensland- Capricornia, Darling Downs, Dawson, Fisher, Herbert, Kennedy, Leichhardt, Maranoa, Mcpherson, Wide Bay; (d) South Australia-Angas, Grey, Wakefield; (e) Western Australia- Canning, Kalgoorlie, 
Moore; (f) and Tasmania- Bass, Braddon, Franklin, Wilmot: For the previous six months, how many farmers applied for (i) unemployment benefit, and (ii) special benefit. 
How many applications were granted in each category. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) How many Polish ex-servicemen who are Australian citizens are estimated to be eligible for pensions and treatment through the Department of Veterans ' Affairs if they are given the same status as their Australian counterparts. 
What is the estimated cost of giving Polish exservicemen the same status. 
How many ex-servicemen from other Allied countries who are now Australian citizens have no repatriation rights in either their own country or Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that many organisations have applied to the Government for funds to run vacation programs for children during the May school holidays? Is it a fact that these organisations have not received notification of whether they will receive funds? Is the Minister aware that in all States the school vacation starts within the next few weeks? If the answer to the first 2 parts of the question is yes, how can the Minister expect these groups to plan activity programs when they receive such short notice of whether they will be funded? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has the Government decided what action it will take as a result of the High Court case involving Miss Karen Green? Will any action be taken in the many other cases involving similar circumstances to that of Miss Green? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that a directive was issued in her Department at the end of last year requiring that statistics be kept weekly on the number of claims for unemployment benefit and special benefit by school leavers and that those statistics be forwarded to the chief statistical officer in her Department? Is it also a fact that, in a written reply to question No. 292 last week in which I asked for those figures with respect to December, January and February last, the Minister informed me that the information was not available? I now ask the Minister whether I and other members of the Senate could have a week by week breakdown of the figures relating to unemployed school leavers who applied for unemployment and special benefit in the months of December 1976 and January and February 1977. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the question asked previously by  Senator Melzer.  I ask: Is it a fact that 27 000 children benefited from the 
Commonwealth assistance provided in the May 1976 vacation children's care programs whereas only 2 1 000 children will benefit from the programs in May of this year, despite the increase in expenditure? Can the Minister give the reasons for the disparity in numbers, if the figures are correct? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What is the estimated cost on  current  figures  of raising the  present $20 per week limit which pensioners may earn before their pension is reduced to, (a) $30 per week, and (b) $40 per week. 
-Will the Minister for Social Security release to senators and members on request the quarterly analysis of unemployment beneficiaries to which she made reference in a reply to me recently? Will she also consider releasing a 4-weekly summary of statistics for the Benefits Policy and Review Division, which is circulated regularly in her Department? Can the Minister supply to the Senate a list of statistical publications which are prepared for internal use in her Department? Will she also consider the release of such statistics to members of both Houses of Parliament? 
-The Senate is debating the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Amendment Bill 1977 which extends the period of operation of the principal Act for a further 12 months, to 30 June 1978, by providing an additional $10m to finance selfcontained units for eligible pensioners under this scheme. The Opposition also notes that the Bill repeals existing requirements for the States to submit for the Commonwealth Minister's approval details of projects which are undertaken under this scheme. The original legislation covering this program was introduced by a previous conservative government in 1969. These provisions were extended in 1974 to include other groups of pensioners and eligible people such as single invalid pensioners, class B widows, repatriation pensioners and tuberculosis pensioners of various types. 
In the period 1974 to 1977 some $30m was made available for the provision of these dwellings. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation nor does it particularly want to delay its passage but we do express concern about some aspects of the legislation and some aspects of the Government's intentions regarding the provision of housing for age and other pensioners in particular and, indeed, the housing situation in general. Our first concern, of course, is that the amount made available under this Bill is the same in money terms as has been made available in previous years. Thus, it is a reduction in real terms in the amounts that have been made available to the States in the last 3 years. We are very aware of the fact that the proposal in this Bill is an extension of the present legislation partly to enable the Commonwealth Government and the State governments to negotiate a new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. We note, with interest, the difficulties that the present Government is having with all State governments in this regard. We also are aware that it is a delay to allow the Government to decide what its housing policy will be and what its future housing programs will be. This $10m will build no more than about 600 units for single pensioners. I submit that this will not even hold the line in the battle of providing accommodation for the single aged and invalid in this country. Honourable senators on both sides of this chamber, members on both sides of the other place and members of all State parliaments must face this fact and face it squarely. 
There is ample evidence of the enormity of the problem which is facing any government in this country in adequately housing the aged and underprivileged. It is a problem that has been with us for a long time. It is a problem that has been barely scratched at in the last couple of decades in this country. It concerns the Opposition and it concerns me somewhat that the present Government seems more concerned about fiddling with the administrative arrangements and the power-sharing arrangements and indulging in exercises in so-called federalism than in building new houses and making available new accommodation that is appropriate for the aged and invalid in Australia. I believe one of the clearest examples of this was in the strict and narrow guidelines which the Government gave to the Bailey task force on health and welfare which looked into these and other problems. 
It is important, I believe, that the Government and all honourable senators should look at the problem of housing people adequately, rather than fiddling with administrative arrangements and indulging in philosophical exercises to redistribute power and financial responsibilities in this country. The present Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Newman,  has been very vocal on housing problems in his short time in this Parliament. One well remembers- and  Senator O  'Byrne will remember- that in October 1975 and in the months previous to that  Mr Newman  announced that the City of Launceston alone immediately and urgently needed $25m to solve its housing problem. This was said to be needed then and there. The Labor Government at that time was berated for not supplying this $25m for this one city. I note that now  Mr Newman  is a Minister and has to be somewhat more responsible he has adopted a more realistic approach. Rather shamefacedly, I suggest, he has had to admit that Queensland has a worse and more urgent housing problem than Tasmania and that one does not throw $2 5m from the Treasurer's coffers into the City of Launceston alone. 
Let us look, firstly, at the sorts of problems we are facing in the field of single pensioner housing alone, bearing in mind that the amount of money provided in this Bill will provide very few dwellings. Some 1 1 600 single pensioners are on Housing Commission waiting lists in this country at the moment; I stress that number. The waiting time for people seeking such accommodation varies from State to State. In Victoria it is 12 to 15 months. In Tasmania it is longer; it is 2 1 to 48 months. In Western Australia, depending on where the pensioner or disadvantaged person lives, it is 3'A to 8 years. One wonders whether in Western Australia they do not solve the problem by having the delay so long that the people die before they get to the top of the queue. This presents to me, and I am sure to others, a very depressing picture. I am sure every member of this chamber and of this Parliament repeatedly has had to try to deal with the unfortunate situation of constituents who are unable to get housing and who are desperate for housing. 
We have the further evidence of the aged persons housing survey which was presented to this Parliament and which shows a disturbing number of aged single and married pensioners who live in sub-standard accommodation. The figures in that survey show that a much higher percentage of pensioners than non-pensioners live in sub-standard housing. In fact the percentage is about twice as great. It is also worth noting, I believe, that the quality of housing in which these people live is much worse in rural areas than it is in urban areas, especially when the state of repair of roofing, the structural condition of the floors, the fire risks, the standard of plumbing and toilet facilities and the presence of vermin are considered. The survey showed the need, which is known to everyone here, for domiciliary assistance for these people. The well known desire of most aged people to stay in their homes is complicated by the fact that some 60 per cent of them have one or more physical disabilities which may make it very difficult for them to be accommodated in their own homes. They need extra assistance; they need domiciliary care. Frequently this is not available in appropriate localities. 
We know from the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty- the Henderson reportthat housing loomed very large as a factor in determining the level of poverty amongst the aged. Some 22 per cent of pensioners had an inadequate income after housing costs were taken into account. This compared with 9 per cent of the aged in general. We know a lot of facts. I submit the facts we already know- there are many more than the few I have quoted today- have generally painted a problem of such proportions that I and the Opposition suggest that it is a national problem which must be attacked nationally. I submit that the problem is beyond and has been demonstrated to be beyond the capabilities, financial or otherwise, of the States to handle alone. They will continue to need considerable financial assistance in this area. The Opposition has always asserted and continues to assert that national problems of this type are best approached by a combined attack by State and Federal governments, with co-operation between those governments, but with the establishment of national guidelines and standards. 
The history of this country shows that the States have not always been as concerned as they should have been in providing for the housing or other needs of the aged in a sensible geographic or demographic manner. This applies particularly in the field of welfare housing. This assessment by the Opposition of the need for national standards and national guidelines is asserted not only by the Opposition. It will be described by our opponents as being anti-States rights, or socialistic, or by any of the other perjorative expressions that are used to describe the principle of having national guidelines; but we believe that such an attitude is a recognition of the practical realities. Of course, those who would prefer the national Parliament just to discuss foreign policy and, perhaps, the level of pensions will not agree. I repeat: We believe this is a national problem which needs national solutions. 
I suggest that it is important that, where possible, the aged should be accommodated in their own homes. I believe everyone in this Parliament agrees with this. It is important also that when accommodation is to be built it should be appropriately sited. It is important that the people be sited near their friends, relatives and the facilities they need to belong to and to be part of this community rather than isolated in ghettos for the aged or in underprivileged areas. The poor geographic distribution of accommodation is a prominent feature of every report that has been produced on this matter. The Henderson inquiry into poverty noted that there was a tendency for elderly people, particularly elderly poor people, to be confined to inappropriate and restricted geographic areas out of contact with their friends and their families. This was particularly so in State homes, State hostels and State Housing Commission areas. 
For this reason the Social Welfare Commission's excellent report on care of the aged recommended that the Australian Government should take an active part in determining the distribution of housing for aged and disabled people and that it should take an active part in the planning and funding of this accommodation. On page 141 of the report of the Social Welfare Commission one can read the following quite definite statement: 
Initiative should be taken by the Australian Government to identify regions in which special accommodation and care for aged or disabled persons is inadequate and to direct the attention of appropriate organisations to such areas or to take such other action as may be appropriate in order to achieve an equitable distribution of accommodation. 
That report has been around for sufficient time now for the Government to consider and to comment on its findings. It is an important and careful report. We are concerned that consideration of that report seems to have been lost in the Government's desire to introduce new federalism policies and to consider the recommendations of the Bailey report and the Holmes report. The Social Welfare Commission's report also comments on the legislation we are dealing with now. It in fact suggested that the present legislation be extended to consider people who are married and people in categories of age or disability who need self-contained accommodation. This important and well regarded report mentioned the importance of national guidelines and the importance of the Federal Government, which inevitably will have to fund these projects and which has a special responsibility to ensure that Australians of whatever age or wherever living are adequately housed and adequately looked after. 
The reports of the Bailey and Holmes committees, which are so often quoted in this regard and which were frequently quoted in the debate on this subject in the House of Representatives as though they were holy writ, talked about Commonwealth guidelines and standards being part of the broad band programs of funding. Those committees did not suggest that Commonwealth funds should be given to the States to do with what they will. I admit that it is a bit mystifying to me on reading the Bailey report to understand how these guidelines were to be carried out and how the Commonwealth was to influence the States to keep within these guidelines. Even so these reports made it perfectly clear that there was an important place for the Commonwealth Government in setting down guidelines as to how expenditure in this area should be made. 
One can hardly suggest that the Bailey committee or the Holmes committee was concerned with espousing centralism, socialism or any of the other phrases that are so frequently used when the Labor Party suggests that there is an important place for national guidelines. It therefore concerns us that this legislation seems to be the first step in a plan whereby the Commonwealth Government will opt out of the future planning and the future overseeing and development of welfare housing in this country. We see so often in other areas the Federal Government wanting to opt out and to hand out so-called broad band payments to let the States do with what they will. The Minister for Social Security has had difficulties with the Queensland Government. The Federal Government gave funds to the Queensland Government to cover such projects as women's health centres and shelters. The Queensland Government, because of some strange philosophical quirk, refuses to use the money for that purpose. As the Minister said in answer to a question from  Senator Colston  recently, she now has to run around and find out how she can fund these projects which she and her Government accept as very worthy. 
The Opposition awaits some more definitive statement from the Government as to what it intends to do in the field of housing. Before the last election the conservative coalition was quite clear that it had the answers to the housing problems in this country. It was quite clear that suddenly it was going to enable thousands of millions of houses to be built for ordinary people and for people who need assistance with their housing. We suggest that these plans have not come forward. We suggest the necessity to extend this project for another year is an example of the Government's inability to decide just what it shall do. It also disturbs the Opposition that the only initiative of note about which the Government has been boasting has been in the field of welfare housing. I refer to the housing allowance voucher experiment. As I have said in this place before, this experiment is still not the subject of any debate or scrutiny in this Parliament. Information about this project has to be dragged out of the Minister or has to be obtained by all sorts of means from all sorts of people who are variously becoming involved. This project is being conducted under considerable criticism from all sorts of tenant groups and housing groups in the community without any proper discussion in this Parliament and under a veil of secrecy which is difficult to penetrate. The Opposition still awaits the Government to announce its intentions in this important area which concerns single pensioners, married aged pensioners, low income earners and all other under-privileged people in this community. We have not had such a statement. It would seem from the year's extension to the Act that it will be some time before we have such a statement. 
We do not oppose the legislation. We are disappointed that the amount of money granted is not increased even to make up for inflation at the moment. We are disappointed and concerned that the Government seems to be opting out of the field of setting guidelines and standards for accommodation in this and other fields when funding such projects through the States. The Opposition suggests that from 1972 on, with the publication of reports by the Commission of 
Inquiry into Poverty, the Social Welfare Commission and many other interested groups in the community, we have had the knowledge available to cope with the housing problem in this community or to start to cope with it. We now have the knowledge and the advice to start the action which the present Government when in Opposition promised. We suggest that as the Government has now been in power as long as the first Whitlam Labor Government was in power from 1972 to the middle of 1974, it is in fact time it let the public and the members of this Parliament know just what its long term plans are to cope with one of Australia's most serious problems. 
-I wish to make a few remarks about clause 4 of the Bill which amends section 4 of the principal Act by removing the necessity for Federal Government approval for the way in which funds are expended by the States. As I predicted in my speech on the second reading of the Bill, the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  labelled any Commonwealth government that interfered in State affairs in this way- by providing guidelines or conditions under which money is given- as socialist, centralist or any of the other colourful expressions that he likes to use. I reiterate that in fact the Social Welfare Commission, in its report entitled  Care for the Aged,  recommended very strongly that the Commonwealth exercise some control over this expenditure and set up national standards and guidelines, as did the Bailey Task Force on Health and Welfare and the Holmes Committee. It is important to realise that the Government, by opting out of this very necessary function which a Federal Government should fulfil, is acting contrary to all these reports and contrary to the views of anyone else who is expert in this area. The simple fact is that in this country we have a very poor geographic distribution of all sorts of accommodation for the aged, including single accommodation of the type referred to in this Bill for single pensioners. We have an arrangement whereby all sorts of accommodation for the aged is built away from the proper associated services, be they paramedical, domiciliary or anything else. 
I suggest that one cannot always rely on the States to spend the money in the way in which it was intended to be spent. I use as an example an associated field. The present Government changed its method of funding to the States for the provision of women's shelters. I think every member of this Parliament agrees that such shelters are essential and necessary to the community. The present Government gave the Queensland Government a block grant to support the women's shelters which existed in Queensland. What happened? I suggest that what happened is exactly what  Senator Keeffe  said happened: The Queensland Government played politics with the money.  Senator Colston,  in question upon notice No. 271, as recorded in the Senate  Hansard,  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  Senator Guilfoyle: 
Is the Queensland Government withholding from use funds provided to it by the Commonwealth Government for women 's shelters. If so, what are the details. 

 Senator Guilfoyle, the Minister for Social Security, replied: 
The Queensland Government has not passed on funds from the 1976-77 Commonwealth block grant under the Community Health Program to two women s refuges, one in Brisbane and the other in Townsville. 
This was raised with the Premier of Queensland by the Prime Minister, but the Premier later indicated that his Government adhered to the position that it would not pass on funds from this block grant to these refuges. 
The question of alternative methods of providing Commonwealth financial assistance to these refuges is currently under consideration and I expect that an announcement will be made in due course. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  answered similarly in the Estimates Committee last year. The simple fact is that when a national government sees a national need to set up and to support any sort of welfare funding, be it for women's shelters, for aged persons' housing or for anything else, it should do so. I suggest that from the figures I quoted earlier housing for pensioners, in particular single pensioners, is a national problem. We cannot rely on people like the Premier of Queensland to take any notice of the problem. Federal governments have to find, as this Government has to find, alternative methods to support a very worthy and very important organisation in Queensland to provide a service for some people who are amongst the most disadvantaged people in our communitybattered, bashed and deserted wives. 
We are not suggesting that the Commonwealth should tell the States exactly what to do and where to do it- how many hat pegs to put in a place, how many bricks to use on the front wall and what colour the building should be- but we are suggesting that the Commonwealth Government should set up national guidelines so that we have a proper national program for housing the aged. As I said, such a program has been lacking in the past. I suggest that the Labor Government had time only to start to look at the problem because we did not have the information on which to base our planning. 
I believe the contributions to this debate from this side of the chamber have been restrained. Until the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  spoke in this debate, the debate on this whole issue had been thoughtful and restrained and showed a general concern amongst all members of this Parliament for this very real problem. It was only when the Minister- completely in character, I suggest- decided to introduce what I would call vitriol and blatant political propaganda that the tone of the debate degenerated. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by reminding the Minister that it is now more than 4 weeks since the High Court finalised its declaration that the Director-General of Social 
Security did not have discretion to deny unemployment benefit to school leavers during the last long vacation and that the time for appeal against that declaration has long since passed. I ask the Minister: When will the Government announce any decision that it has made on what action it will take in the light of Karen Green's case? Is the Government to announce a decision? Is the Government to make a decision in the light of this case or is the Government merely to ignore the decision of the High Court and the law of this land? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that the Government is seeking to pass to the States the payment of the supporting mothers benefit? Has the Minister requested from the Attorney-General an opinion on the legal status of the supporting mothers benefit? If so, has this been done for the purpose of having the payment of this benefit by the Federal Government declared illegal with the intention of passing it back to the States? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency. 
The Government's failure to properly reconsider applications for unemployment benefit by school leavers illegally deprived of benefits at the end of the last school year following the High Court decision on the Karen Green case'. 
The Opposition believes this is an important subject. We believe that the Government should by now have reconsidered the position of those school leavers who were deprived of the unemployment benefit at the end of last year in view of the fact that it is now more than a month since the High Court ruled that the decision of the Government and the actions of the DirectorGeneral of the Department of Social Services in the Green case were in fact illegal. It is an important matter and it has been debated and mentioned many times in this Parliament. There are 3 aspects of the Government's failure to act and its handling of the unemployment benefit situation, particularly in respect of school leavers, which we believe should cause this Senate concern and should cause this Parliament concern. Added to these aspects is the further concern that the Government is reluctant to act as a result of the court's decision. The Government seems not willing to accept the court's decision, although the Government failed to appeal against that decision. 
The first serious aspect of this matter involves the Government's action in refusing to grant the unemployment benefit to school leavers at a time when unemployment in this country was high and rising and at a time when unemployment particularly amongst the youth of this country was very high. The question concerns the social justice and, in fact, the fairness of the Government in singling out this group of people, these school leavers, and depriving them of unemployment benefits when others in the community were not so deprived. The second question, of course, concerns the very legality of the Government 's decision in proceeding in this way by direction or by decree rather than by legislation and having no regard to the provisions of the Social Services Act. To these questions the Opposition believes must be added a third important matter; that is, the question of government and ministerial responsibility which has been introduced by the attempt by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to hide behind the Director-General of the Department of Social Security and to avoid responsibility for the shambles in which the Government now finds itself. Having been exposed in the court- and by the Government accepting publicly the court's decision and by not appealing- the Government now is reluctant to do the right thing and to right the wrong that it has done. 
The history of this case is, of course, well known to all honourable senators but I believe it bears some brief recapitulation. In March 1976 the Government, through the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  announced that it would not pay unemployment benefits to school leavers for the duration of the school holidays at the end of 1976. It was said that this was being done because some students- the number is always very uncertain- were receiving benefits and then returning to school. No figure was ever given in reply to questions here or in another place as to how many students might be involved. No figures were giving as to the possible savings by the Government as a result of these actions. It has been said repeatedly that the Government took this action to cover the miscreants who allegedly received benefits when they were not entitled to do so. To the Opposition this sounds very much like an outburst of moral indignation- never a good basis, I would suggest, for planning and administering social security in this country or in any other country. 
The Opposition, of course, questioned the natural justice of such an action in taking all benefits from all unemployed school leavers to catch a few who might be cheating on the system. When it became obvious to the Opposition that the action was not going to be backed by legislative action in this Parliament and that the Parliament would, in fact, be bypassed, the Opposition asked repeatedly in this place and in another place for legal opinions or legal advisings which would back the Government's action in operating in this way. We received none, nor are we likely to receive any. The only response to such Government action by decree was, in fact, recourse to the courts. Social workers, lawyers, the councils of social services and 3 distinguished commissioners of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in this country had all expressed disapproval of the Government's actions on both moral and legal grounds. It was to no avail. They pointed out repeatedly the unfairness of such actions. They backed the Opposition repeatedly in its call that the Government should, firstly, not indulge in such government by decree and, secondly, if it wished to alter the criteria in the Social Services Act, it should do so publicly and by legislation in this Parliament and put such changes in the Act. 
I believe at this stage that we must be perfectly clear that the decision to refuse unemployment benefits to the school leavers was a Government decision. It was a Government decision directing the Director-General of Social Security to act in this way to refuse benefits. The DirectorGeneral, under section 7 of the Social Services Act, is, in fact, subject to any direction of the Minister in administering the Act. This is written into the Act. It is perfectly clear. The Minister directed the Director-General to refuse benefits on the basis that people were school leavers. In fact there was a blanket refusal to pay benefits to people because they were school leavers, and for no other reason. As was suggested at the time, and as has been backed by  Mr Justice  Stephen now, this was contrary to section 107 (c) of the Social Services Act. But we cannot, in the manner in which the Minister has attempted to do, blame the Director-General of the Department of Social Security. 
The Director-General in fact may well have pointed out to the Government and to the Minister that this directive and this decision was contrary to the Act. We do not know. He cannot speak for himself in this place. In fact he must obey his Minister. The Minister is here and the Minister can answer. The buck stops with the Minister and with the Government, not with the Director-General of the Department of Social Security. Any attempt by the Minister to pass responsibility to the Director-General, as was done yesterday at question time, is a charade and will be seen to be a charade by everyone in this place. This is a government and a ministerial responsibility and must be accepted as such. 
Eventually the Social Welfare Action Group, Miss Karen Green and others who assisted her took the Government's action to the High Court of Australia. The Court gave its judgment. The judgment received wide publicity in this place and in the Press of this country. There have been attempts to obscure the judgment. Efforts have been made to put over this judgment a veil of mystery by claiming that it is complicated and difficult and that it needs careful study. There is no argument. I believe that the gist of  Mr Justice  Stephen's judgment is this: Miss Green- the Judge pointed out that hers was not an exceptional case and that in fact there were thousands like it in the community- was subject to an inflexible rule which prevented her from being considered for unemployment benefits until the end of the school vacation, the school vacation which started last November or early December. Despite the provisions of the Act and despite criteria laid down in the Act on how people were to be judged as to their eligibility for unemployment benefits, the mere fact that Miss Green was a school leaver prevented her from getting unemployment benefits. This was by direction of the Director-General of the Department of Social Security; that direction having in fact come from the Government. 
The judgment of the court also said that the Department and the Director-General in fact should have considered all the circumstances of Miss Green's claim under the Act and the fact that she was a school leaver should not in itself have been treated as a decisive factor as to whether or not she should receive uinemployment benefits. In other words the Judge was saying that the blanket decree excluding all school leavers was not in accordance with the Act and was in fact illegal. The judgment has been given. The associated declarations of the judgment have been formalised. The time for appeal has passed. All we have from the Government is that it is considering the judgment. One would have thought that the Government would have carefully considered the judgment when deciding whether to appeal against it. In the 2 1 days that were available for appeal I am convinced that there was careful studying and careful consideration of this judgment before the Government decided not to appeal. 
Thousands of unemployed school leavers were refused unemployment benefits by decree from this Government. To these we must add those students who left school a month before the school holidays started to try to crack a job in a difficult job market. This is a very common and frequent practice at the end of every school year. These students were also deprived of unemployment benefits because of the arbitrary cut off date. They were students who, for more than 3 months- no matter how many jobs they tried to get, no matter how many miles they walked and no matter how many applications they made- in fact were deprived of benefits. Other school leavers were actively discouraged from registering for unemployment benefits because of the Government's actions. In the knowledge that there was an appeal- there were several appeals to several courts over this case- members of the Opposition, members of various social welfare groups, members of all sorts of self-help groups including unemployed self-help groups in the community encouraged people to register for unemployment benefits, but many still did not apply because they thought it was a waste of time to do so. Many others in fact attempted to apply but were discouraged by the actions of those in the offices where they applied. 
No legal opinion was ever produced in this Parliament to support the Government's actions. We suggest that no consideration was given to the family hardship and the levels of family income of the people who were deprived of these benefits. A poor family- a very poor family with perhaps one wage earner who was on unemployment benefits himself- was expected to support a school leaver, despite the fact that that school leaver was desperately trying to find work, was available for work and was fulfilling every criterion under the Act but was knocked out, firstly, by the restrictive definitions of 'eligibility' which were introduced by the Government and, secondly, by the ludicrously hard hardship conditions, the absurd hardship conditions which were applied to unemployed school leavers before they could receive special benefits. In fact, very few received special benefits. I believe it is worth remembering that in November 1976, when the ban on unemployment benefits was applied to school leavers, there were 87 600 unemployed people in this country between the ages of 15 years and 19 years. At that time the total number of registered job vacancies in Australia was 25 499. In February 1977 more than onethird of our unemployed males were between 15 and 19 years of age and more than two in five unemployed females were aged between 15 and 19 years. 
The problems of unemployed youth in this community were, are and will continue to be enormous. They should be frightening to us all. Up to 45 per cent- even more in some areas- of the unemployed are in fact under 2 1 years. In rural areas the figures are highest- often much higher than this. In the Hunter statistical region, which includes Newcastle- one of our biggest industrial areas- 165 males under 21 years of age are unemployed for each job vacancy. The figure for females is almost as bad, with 135 unemployed for every job vacancy. 

 -As Senator Douglas McClelland points out, the figures are nearly as bad in Wollongong. In some areas of North Queensland and other rural areas the situation is in fact worse. It is so bad that no job vacancies are available for any of the unemployed. 
The result of this severe unemployment is the social problems which we know so well and which have been documented so well in other countries. It is inevitable that in the near and distant future we will run into problems as a result of the prolongation of this situation of chronic unemployment and chronic youth unemployment which shows no sign of letting up. Inevitably, there is an increased incidence of crime, drug offences and vandalism associated with a high level of unemployed youth. But just as bad, and in many ways worse, is the sense of disillusionment, the sense of not belonging and the consequent lack of motivation of young people for whom society can find no useful role. People who have been told all though their education life of the rewards they will get for effort and for being keen are left unemployed when they leave school. They are not only left unemployed but also they are treated differently from the other unemployed in the community. This increases their sense of not belonging and their sense of dependence and hopelessness. 
Of course, the Opposition is aware that restoring unemployment benefit to these people retrospectively will not solve the problem. We are aware that measures such as job preference for young people, incentives to employers to employ young people, meaningful job creation schemes and meaningful retraining schemes are much more important and that basically economic recovery is the only thing which eventually will get rid of the high unemployment rate. We believe that an admission by the Government that it has acted wrongly, unjustly and illegally in this matter would do something to break down the divisiveness in our society which is created by such discriminatory action and the fact that there is a large group of unemployed who find no place for themselves in society. 
Speeches by Government members within and without this chamber condemning the unemployed, making derogatory remarks about the unemployed, in fact saying that unemployment is a myth or that the unemployed do not want to work are taken up very quickly by members of our conservative Press and played up highly in editorials and spectacular articles. They do not help the situation. Fortunately there are people who are aware of the dangers of divisiveness. They are aware that actions like the Government's action create problems. An advertisement was inserted in today's  Age  by such concerned people. It is not the first time that most of these people have expressed their concern on this issue. I commend the advertisement to anybody who wishes to see it. It appears on page 2 of today's  Age.  It calls on the Minister for Social Security to take action in this matter. It states: 
The High Court of Australia declared on 16 April that the Director-General of Social Security acted invalidly in not paying Unemployment Benefits to eligible youth who had just left school. 
We the undersigned respectfully request that the Minister of Social Security, Margaret Guilfoyle, instruct the DirectorGeneral to properly consider the applications of ex-students who registered for Unemployment Benefits at the end of the last school year. 
Further, the Minister should instruct her Director-General to write immediately to all school leavers who have registered for Unemployment Benefits since the end of the last school year and did not receive Benefits because of the illegal blanket policy. 
The Director-General should inform them of the situation and ask them to return to the Department to have their cases considered. 
The people who signed it are not irresponsible people but in fact respected people. They are listed as follows: 
Reverend Peter Hollingworth. 
David Scott, Executive Director, Brotherhood of St Laurence. 
Barbara Spalding, Executive Director, Victorian Council of Social Services. 
Reverend David Griffiths, President, Baptist Union of Victoria. 
Doctor Spiro Moraitis, President, Australian Greek Welfare Society. 
Rev.  Dr A.  Kenworthy, Director, Baptist Counselling Service. 
Francis Donovan, Head, Social Work, Preston Institute of Technology. 
Professor Verl Lewis, Social Work, University of Melbourne. 
Collingwood City Council. 
Professor Ronald Henderson, 
Professor Henderson is a very distinguished commissioner of the inquiry into poverty. The list continues: 
Rt Rev. FarquharGunn, Moderator, Presbyterian Church of Victoria. 
Professor Colin Howard, Law Department, University of Melbourne. 
Ian Yates, Secretary-General, Australian Council of Social Services. 
Reverend David Hodges, A/g Director, Presbyterian Social Services. 
Professor Herbert Bisno, Social Work, Latrobe University. 
Reverend Arthur Preston, Superintendent, Wesley Central Mission. 
Gareth Evans, Harold Carter, Denis Gibson, Peter Hase, John Howie, Lawyers. 
These people inserted the advertisement because they are obviously concerned that the Minister should take note of the High Court's findings and act promptly through her Director-General to right the wrong that has been done. The Opposition believes there has been ample time for the Government to do this. It has had fair warning- in fact since the middle of last yearthat many people in the community believed its actions were illegal. The Government certainly had a long warning that there would be legal challenges to its actions. We believe it received advice that those challenges would be successful. We believe that it should now reconsider not only the case of Karen Green but also the cases of people who were refused unemployment benefit as a result of the Director-General's decree. We realise of course that it is difficult if not impossible to consider the cases of people who were deliberately discouraged from applying. There may be no records of their attempts to register for unemployment benefit. We believe that at least for the present those who registered and who were refused should have their cases reconsidered in the light of the criteria for eligibility which existed in the Social Services Act in November and December last year and not on the basis of any criteria which the Government may intend to write into the Act this year. We believe that retrospective legislation in cases like this is wrong and we would oppose the writing of any such restrictions into the Act for next year. 
Justice must be done and justice must be seen to be done. In this case it has not been seen to be done. We appreciate the Government's difficulty, but the difficulty is of its own making. We appreciate that the Government is made uncomfortable by the increasing levels of unemployment, but cutting down the number of people on the rolls by restrictive action is not the way to get the unemployment level down. The Government must accept the fact that there are people unemployed and it should not discriminate against any group in the great mass of unemployed people. It should not discriminate on grounds of age, sex, religion, race or anything else. The Government has been caught out in an illegal act. It should admit this and make recompense to those whom it deprived of benefits and in the future consider carefully whether it should act as it has, ignoring the Parliament and trying to govern by decree. This is not a suitable method of government in a democracy like ours. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
What grants have been made to the Ferntree Gully and Districts Welfare Association for the intellectually handicapped since the introduction of the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act. 
How much was provided in that time for hostel beds for the intellectually handicapped in the electorate of La Trobe. 
How many hostel beds did this represent. 
Has the leasing of Knoxbrooke land on the old Ferntree Gully quarry site prevented the Ferntree Gully and Districts Welfare Association from attracting funds for the extension of facilities for the intellectually handicapped at Knoxbrooke. 
As this land is held in trust for the Ferntree Gully and District Welfare Association to extend their services to the handicapped, what steps can be taken by them to restore eligibility for a grant under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act if they are currently ineligible. 
I rise firstly to ask that  Senator Harradine  table the document from which he read and, secondly, in view of the fact that he says he has other information to complete his case, to give him the opportunity to rise again to complete detailing the evidence he claims he has. 
I wish to ask a couple of questions of the Minister as a result of some things she has said now and some things that have arisen since Estimates Committee D met. I was pleased and interested to hear that the Director-General of Social Services will be making public his decision on his deliberations on  Mr Justice  Stephen 's ruling in the High Court. We would like to know whether the Director-General 's decision will be the result of a direction of the Minister, which the Minister is entitled to give under section 7 of the Social Services Act. If it is not a direction of the Minister and is just a decision of the Director-General, will we get from the Minister the Government's policy? Irrespective of the Director-General's decision, will we get the Government's policy on what it thinks should be done, in view of Judge Stephen's finding and the Director-General's interpretation of Judge Stephen's finding. 
I turn now to another matter which interested the Estimates Committee. Some questions were asked about the levels of staffing in the Department, the effect of staff ceilings on the efficiency and morale of the Department, the effect of the staff ceilings on overtime which was being worked in the Department and how often officers were obliged to work overtime. There were also questions on the effect of the Government's ruling that people on maternity leave, sick leave or study leave would not be replaced. The Committee was given the impression that there was really no great difficulty in the Department with morale and staffing problems. Since then certain things have come to light. For instance, there have been stop work meetings in Victoria, Western Australia and South Australia. I understand that staff members of the Department in two of those 3 States at least have put bans on overtime of various types, are refusing to collect statistics and have put bans on inquiries from members of Parliament about their constituents' problems. So there is a difficulty. I understand that it is particularly great in South Australia, with the staff members putting on work restrictions because they feel that in view of the staff ceilings and the vastly increased load in the Department due to the increase in the unemployment level, among other things, they are unable to serve the people properly unless they restrict the amount of work they have to do. All this happened since the Committee was assured that there were really no great problems and that the; Minister was having a meeting with the staff in Victoria to sort it out. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. 

~Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was asking the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  about the Government's intentions when the Director-General of her Department gives his decision on the High Court judgment. I was asking the Minister also what was the state of play with staff morale and the staff problems the Department was having. To reiterate quickly, we have heard rumours and stories of difficulties within the Department of Social Security caused, it is alleged, by staff ceilings. It has been alleged that people are having to work a lot of overtime. There have been stop work meetings and overtime bans and there have been and are now bans on assisting members of Parliament in their representations to the Department. We understand there are bans also on the collection of statistics in the Department. This hardly seems to me to compare very favourably with the answers given by the Minister and her staff during the hearings of the Estimates Committee to the effect that everything seemed to be going fairly well with the Department and that it was just a matter of some minor adjustments in staff being made. We would be grateful to have the Minister's opinions on these matters. 
I would like to add a few words in support of  Senator Cavanagh  particularly about the difficulties of staffing that the Minister and her Department are having. I point out that as  Senator Cavanagh  said, this is not a recent development at all. The Minister may  well  remember that in the hearings by Senate Estimates Committee D on 21 September last year I asked a series of questions on these very problems. I asked about the difficulties that were being created by staff ceilings. I asked about the difficulties that were being created because of the protracted negotiations with the Public Service Board. We finished with a series of answers by the Minister pointing out to us that she and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  had arranged some flexibility in regard to the staff ceilings; that she had arranged some flexibility with the Government in regard to how many staff were needed to handle what may be an increased number of unemployment beneficiaries that were to be paid at the time. In fact rather cynically I wished the Minister and her Department well in her negotiations with the Board in view of the evidence that she and I had heard in previous days on the Public Accounts Committee about the difficulties some departments had in fact had with the Board in trying to increase staff. 
I realise, as the Minister says, that if you have a government that is determined to put ceilings on and is determined to decrease staff, it is difficult for a department 9000 strong to ask for more staff; but it should not be that difficult when the department is handling almost 25 per cent of Budget expenditure in this community and that 25 per cent of expenditure is going to help the underprivileged people in this community and to help people through income support programs and relief programs in keeping their standards of living up to a reasonable level. Surely anyone in this country can expect that. I am sure that all of us on both sides of this chamber have had repeated complaints from members of the staff- I have letters here- of the Department of Social Security talking about the divisive episodes that are happening at the counters of offices of the Department in every capital; letters talking about delays in the processing of claims and in the payment of claims from the Department; letters talking about the number of days it takes to get on to the Department by telephone. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and members of the Department are conscientious, hard working, earnest people who do not take industrial action, people who do not go on strike. In fact, the sorts of things that are going on in the Department now are almost unheard of. There are overtime bans. There are bans on helping members of Parliament. If I am asked whether there should be a ban on that or a ban on helping someone who comes to the counter in the Department's offices in a desperate state, I will say put on a ban on handling inquiries from members of Parliament. The staff have to make that choice. But there are bans on the collection of statistics, and this is unusual. This is almost unheard of in the Department and it does indicate a malaise and a lack of morale which I believe can be overcome by realising that there are enormous increases in the number of unemployment beneficiaries; there are great increases in the number of invalid and other pensions which are paid. These will further increase and to handle these things properly the Department needs greater efficiency, I know, but it also needs more staff and staff working in decent conditions with a high morale. 
I think that the point  Senator Cavanagh  has raised and the point we have been talking about is terribly important, particularly in those 3 States where there seems to be a very acute problem. The Department is set up to help people. The people who work in the Departmentalmost all of them; almost every one of themwork there because they like the work and they want to help people. If their conditions are such that they cannot do that efficiently no one can blame them at all for taking action of the type which they have taken. It has not given them more money and in fact sometimes may give them less money. It has not affected the service to the public except in one minor way, and that is that the staff are not helping members of Parliament. I think the Minister and the Government should seriously look at this very real problem. 
I join in this debate only because during the hearings of the Estimates Committee I had some difficulty in working out exactly what  Senator Harradine  was getting at. I must say that I still have some difficulty in being clear in my mind about just what he objects to and just what he is trying to find. I understand very well that there was some difficulty during the hearings of the Estimates Committee because of an apparent lack of information from the officers of the Department who were present at the time. I believe that difficulty was cleared up fairly quickly because the  Hansard  record of the proceedings goes on for only one page or so before we get back to this question. I believe that the difficulty was compounded also by the fact that instead of asking direct questions such as: 'Can the officers tell us just what is happening at 3 Lobelia Street?'  Senator Harradine  asked a rather convoluted number of questions in which he did not mention 3 Lobelia Street. That caused confusion between the Women's Centre Incorporated and the Women's Refuge.  Senator Harradine  said during the hearings of the Estimates Committee that he objects to abortion counselling services and that he objects to any organisation which facilitates abortions. I respect his view in that regard and I respect his right to have those objections. However, I suggest that not everyone in the community has those objections. During the hearings of the Senate Estimates Committee I asked this question: 
Is it a condition of government grants-in-aid to organisations running women's health centres that they do not counsel about abortion, that they oppose abortion or that they favour abortion? 
The answer given was: 'No'. Now, I am suggesting that, apparently, abortion is illegal in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Except when it is legal in public hospitals. But the simple fact of the matter is that we are talking about abortion counselling. I do not believe that  Senator Harradine  or anyone else is suggesting that abortions are being carried out at 3 Lobelia Street. I suggest that there is a distinction there, and I believe it is right. 

 Senator Harradine then made the serious charge that he was misled by the officers of the Department, and he produced a document which, on a superficial examination, suggests that he may have some basis for such an argument. I believe that the Department certainly has a question to answer in that regard. I certainly would favour, as I am sure every honourable senator would, the granting of funds on an evenhanded basis to an organisation such as the Pregnancy Support Service. I believe that this whole problem could have been cleared up more easily if, with due respect to him,  Senator Harradine  could have been more direct in his questioning and not so indirect and convoluted. 
It seems to me- I am open to correction- that  Senator Harradine  wants to know what goes on at 3 Lobelia Street. He wants to know how much money the organisation operating from that address has. He wants to know what that money is used for. He wants to know whether that money is being used legally and whether it is being used in a manner consistent with the policy of the present Government. I believe that is what he is after. He wants to know whether there is another organisation called the Pregnancy Support Service. He wants to know whether it applied for money; whether it got money if it applied for it. He wants to know whether it should get money when it applies for it. I suggest that if those questions had been asked more directly we would have received more direct answers and we would not have had the very real difficulty we experienced when this matter came up before the Estimates Committee. 
I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  can clear up the question whether the Pregnancy Support Service people applied for a grant. If they did apply for it, I would be very interested to know why we were told that they had not applied for it. I would certainly be interested to know why one organisation in preference to another was favoured with a grant-in-aid. We are dealing here with a grant of some $3,600, I think it is. Its purpose is for health and education services and counselling services. I think it is sensible that in the Australian Capital Territory, which is situated in the centre of a State in which the abortion laws are perhaps more liberal than they are in the Territory, and the Women's Health Counselling Service should provide information for and against abortions. If we shut our eyes to this problem and say that we will not give any money- even $3,000- to an organisation such as this, we are just being bloody-minded about our grantsinaid made to organisations which help people in the community. I hope that the Minister can clear up this matter. If  Senator Harradine  has been misled in the Estimates Committee it is a serious matter. I think we should have some balance in our questioning in relation to small items such as the one we are considering. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  this question: If the Pregnancy Support Service applies for a grant under the present grants-in-aid would it not receive favourable reception from the Government? I, like  Senator Harradine,  object to literature that is offensive to me or my children being distributed to my children. I would not like my daughter to receive a pamphlet advocating abortion for school children, just as I objected several years ago to pamphlets being put in my letter box, which my children could pick up, showing foetuses in vivid colour and claiming that anybody who was not opposed to abortion was a murderer. In the same way I objected to pamphlets being put in my letter box last weekend saying that I and my colleagues are communists. We all object to that sort of thing. I point out that this is the first time, in 2 Estimates Committees and tonight, that I have heard of that objection from  Senator 
Harradine. I object to that organisation doing that in Hobart or anywhere else. I would like the Minister to give some guarantee that the Pregnancy Support Service will receive a fair hearing from the Government so that we can have a balance on this matter in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Social Security by saying that the Opposition also has a high opinion of the character and ability of  Mr Daniels,  her Director-General. We have always asserted that the decision he made was made under direction from the Minister, as may be done under the Social Services Act. In view of the Minister's persistence in passing the responsibility for this decision to the Director-General of Social Security and in view of her reluctance or refusal to answer questions on this matter other than to say that she will refer it to her Director-General, will she and the Government facilitate the appearance of the Director-General before the Senate, if necessary before the Bar of the Senate, so we may ask questions and get direct answers on this very important subject? 
-As is obvious to everyone, it was a long week last week, and it will be a longer week this week. I, for one, am quite happy to go home to go to bed early tonight if that is  Senator Withers  ' wish. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We have no desire to obstruct its passage. We welcome the changes provided in the Bill. The changes have arisen largely from the report of  Mr Justice  Toose on the repatriation system. The inquiry has the distinction, I believe, of being one of the longest inquiries ever conducted. It is said that the inquiry exceeded in length World War 1. However, it is good to see that an inquiry which went for so long and which cost so much money is at last bearing some fruit. We particularly believe that the restructuring of the repatriation boards and the methods of application which applicants will make in attempting to prove their claims for pensions will be of some benefit. 
There has been a suggestion that some of the repatriation boards have become too rigid in their application because the members have not rotated between boards, because the members have become rigid in their ways. Some of the findings of the boards have been a bit difficult and hard to understand. We hope that now, with this restructuring and with the new ability of the Minister for Repatriation to direct the boards in various matters to enable them to have a more uniform method of dealing with applications, there will be an improvement. Added to this is the fact that boards now give reasons for their findings. We hope that this will go some way towards cutting down the number of appeals in the repatriation system which we believe are getting up to about 1 5 000 per annum. I think that we will have to look at the whole repatriation system further as well as the changes that are being made here. In the past it has become obvious that it has become the routine that everyone automatically appeals under the repatriation system. They are encouraged to do so. This has caused much duplication of work, some conflict and, I believe, some difficulties. 
We welcome also the wording of proposed new section 47 of the Act. Section 47 has caused difficulty ever since it has been in the legislation. A lot of shibboleths and a lot of nonsense have been spoken about the old section 47 and what it means. We agree with  Mr Justice  Toose in his claim that the new section will clarify the whole situation and will give the applicants the idea that they are in fact getting justice, more so than they do now. Overall we find nothing objectionable in the changes. We hope that the other suggestions of  Mr Justice  Toose and some others will be taken up. It is becoming obvious to us all I think that there will have to be an overall change in the repatriation system in this country. There is a tendency I know among some ex-service organisations to believe that the system should remain as it is because it has been what it is over the years.  Mr Justice  Toose has made some pertinent suggestions as to what should happen in repatriation. We hope that all his years of* work will not be in vain. We hope that the Government will not take as long to deal with  Mr Justice  Toose 's findings as  Mr Justice  Toose took to reach them. In not opposing this Bill we hope that in the future the Government will consider the other changes which have arisen out of that very same inquiry. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that some 43 positions are being removed from the establishment of the Community and Social Welfare Branch of her Department in Victoria? Are similar changes being made in other States? How does this reduction in staff numbers affect the figures she gave yesterday, in answer to a question from  Senator Primmer,  indicating that there had been an increase of 375 positions for staff in her Department? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security refers to the Press report this morning of the Public Accounts Committee's hearings in which it was claimed that the large number of overpayments paid by her Department were in fact caused by claimants who had not given information as to their change in circumstances. I ask: Is it not a fact that there are some 40 000 items of unattached mail in the Victorian office of the Department of Social Security and some 18 000 items of unattached correspondence in the New South Wales office of the Department of Social Security? Could not a large percentage of the unattached items of correspondence be in fact notifications of changes of circumstances of various claimants? Does this have some effect on the high figures quoted in the newspapers this morning? 
I wish to take a minute to comment on the remarks made by  Senator Walters.  I have always agreed with her that it seems quite inequitable that fees in Tasmania should be so much lower than those on the mainland. I believe that the best and fairest solution to this problem is an upward movement in some fees in Tasmania and a downward movement in the outrageous fees charged in New South Wales and Victoria. This may give us some justice. But 1 would not like to give anyone the impression that I believe that Tasmanian fees should rise to the levels that exist in the large mainland cities. 
-The main purpose of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill it to alter the Health Insurance Act to prevent or to attempt to prevent the abuses of the Health insurance system in this country as a result of the excessive use of pathology services and fraudulent claims by a few pathologists. Incidentally, the Bill also increases the penalties for the so-called kick-back system being used by some unscrupulous pathology laboratories. The Government and the Opposition both agree that the level of increased use of pathology services and the associated abuse has been alarming. Despite the limitations in benefits paid for pathology tests last year, there has been little change in this increase in expenditure on this item. 
The situation in pathology is not the same as in other sections of medicine, with the exception of radiology, because the tests done by pathologists are ordered by other doctors. The pathologist himself rarely, if ever, has any contact with the patient directly. I believe that the argument we often hear in this place and outside this place about the delicate doctor-patient relationship which can only be maintained by the fee for service system just does not apply to pathology. The patient has no way of knowing what tests have been done and why those tests have been done. The whole connection is a doctor to doctor one and the patient cannot be blamed for any overuse and abuse of the pathology system. 
The situation in regard to pathology and the problem we face in this country- it is also faced in other countries- is a complex one. I believe it is a combination of over-use and abuse. The background to over-use of pathology tests and pathology facilities is a multifaceted one. Medicine has become more scientific and the facilities of science which are used by doctors have become more readily available to all doctors in the community. The tedious, time-consuming, labour-intensive and expensive tests and methods of biochemistry and haematology which were used in the past have been replaced by kits and multi-channel analysers which can do many thousands of tests as easily as they can do one test. 
This sort of modern increase in efficiency and facilities does not only apply to pathology, as I shall show later. There is a tendency, and it has been apparent for some time, to do a barrage of tests without thinking rather than to do a select number of tests based on probabilities and on clinical findings in medicine. It is my belief that this tendency has been aggravated by the type of medical education we have today and which we have had for some years. It is scientifically orientated; it is test orientated. It is done in general by a hand-picked upper group of people from our education system in which, in my opinion, scientific methods and values are sometimes overemphasised and the personal approach, the clinical approach, is frequently under-emphasised. 
Students do all their training in teaching hospitals. Most doctors do a couple of years after-training in teaching hospitals where tests are done not always to detect disease but as part of a routine, or sometimes, and quite properly, even as part of scientific investigations. I am not suggesting there is anything improper about this but it does create a tendency for people to become very reliant on tests of all types, particularly in pathology. This sort of approach to medicine has been facilitated by those modern methods of analysis which have been of enormous benefit to mankind. But they have made life very difficult for some of the health insurance people and those who fund health care in any country- in fact, that is all of us. 
I might add, the computerised, impersonal approach is intruding into other fields. The socalled CAT scanner- the computerised axial tomogram scanner- which is a radiological tool of enormous benefit to mankind and of great value both to doctors and patients, is now being introduced into Australia. Of course, it has been used in the United States for some time. There it has been the subject of much controversy because of the ease with which it can be abused and over-used. One reads articles in the New England Journal of Medicine which refer to CAT fever, the excessive use of this important diagnostic tool. One reads that a general practice in Sydney has ordered one of those scanners to be installed in the practice. The equipment costs some $750,000. One wonders about a general practice having a specialised tool like this and whether it is not the prelude to the problems that have been experienced in that very field in America. I believe, therefore, that it may be very difficult for the Government to avoid passing legislation like this in other areas, particularly in radiology, in the future. 
The problem of abuse is simpler. Unhappily, there are a few avaricious people involved in medical practice and associated with medical practitioners, as there are in every other field of endeavour. These people set up rackets and schemes to rip off the consumers, the taxpayers and the health funds. These rackets in general consist of charging for tests that in fact are not done, performing tests that are not ordered or. by various means, ordering tests that are unnecessary. They consist also of paying kickbacks to doctors who therefore are encouraged to use those services or, more frequently, over-use those services. All sorts of methods of kickbacks to various medical practices have been detected, such as cash payments,  overseas  trips, fur coats, payments to staff, supply of goods or services to staff and even automobiles. Also, some peoplebusinessmen, entrepreneurs and doctors- set up health studios and multi-screening services and lure patients to their organisations, which are paid for by the medical health insurance systems. These people are crooks. They are dishonest. They have abused the system for many yearsbefore the advent of Medibank and probably before the advent of any health insurance. They should be charged and penalised as any other dishonest people are. They are doing more than just taking advantage of the system. 
My concern, and the Opposition's concern, about the changes invoked by this legislation is that they may not be as successful as the Government expects. No matter what arguments there may be for fee for service in other areas of medicine, I do not believe those arguments apply in pathology. Abuse in the pathology system is easy. It is so open to abuse because of a lack of knowledge of what is going on by the patient. In fact, a patient frequently just has blood taken at a doctor's surgery, it is sent off in a bottle to a pathologist and that is as much contact as the patient has with the pathology laboratory. 
-I certainly would. I realise, as I think everyone in the medical profession realises, that this sort of thing has to come. I think I agree with the Government, although I am not certain, that the abolition of bulk billing which is proposed in this legislation for everyone except pensioners who are eligible for bulk billing could well cut down over-use and some abuse in the field of pathological testing. But I have no evidence for that and I do not believe the Government has any such evidence, although I believe it wishes it did have. We might be able to obtain some evidence when comparisons between those health funds which bulk bill and those which do not are available from the figures produced by the health funds. I think it is of some concern that we do not have the figures yet. I realise that the Government had to act before those figures were available, but I believe that they should be available now. 
It was interesting to note that in the debate in this chamber last year when the changes were made to Medibank I predicted that the private funds would not be able to produce figures of their membership and their transactions by April this year, as was hoped. From my knowledge and from the knowledge of others, their methods of accounting and their methods of filing in the past have been such that we believe it would be a great job for them to produce these figures. As the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said, these figures were supposed to be available in April. They are not here in May. He believes they will be available about August. I hope that when the figures come out we may have some idea of what difference the abolition of bulk billing makes to pathology. 
I hope the Government does not intend to abolish bulk billing in other areas. In other areas of pathology bulk billing has been of some advantage to many people. The tendency in pathology has not been for pathologists to charge people before the tests were done. I believe the abolition of bulk billing in other areas may be of disadvantage to patients and certainly would be of great disadvantage so far as administrative costs to the various health funds are concerned. I hope that the additional administrative costs which the abolition of bulk billing will undoubtedly cause to Medibank and those health insurance funds which do bulk bill, are outweighed and counterbalanced by the gains from the prevention of over-use which the Government hopes will result from this legislation. 
There is only one matter contained in the Bill which I want to deal with in detail. I will deal with it now rather than take up time during the Committee stage. I refer to the problem that the committees of review which will examine excessive services will face, even with the new provisions related to procedural measures for requesting and performing pathological tests which are being introduced. I am aware that lawyers and parliamentary draftsmen need to use language in Bills which is, in general, obscure to mere mortals like myself and most other people in the Parliament. The definition of 'excessive services ' given at page 1 3 of this Bill seems to me to be so broad as to be almost ludicrous, especially when, so far as I can see, the investigations may take place as a rule more than two or three years after the service has been performed. The Bill states:   a reference to excessive services is a reference to professional services, being services in respect of which medical benefit has become or may become payable . . . 
I understand that. It continues:  that are not reasonably necessary Tor the adequate medical care of the patient concerned . . . 
What 'reasonably necessary' means and what is adequate medical care would seem to most of us, I suggest, to be difficult to define. It would be difficult to define if the investigation was being conducted after the event-after the patient has either recovered or not recovered. I suppose it is difficult to make strict definitions in areas like this. How services will be proved to be excessive on that sort of definition is, I suggest, very difficult. 
Medical costs in this country and every other country are presenting problems. They are high; they are increasing; they are escalating. New techniques, computerised methods and the more efficient methodology used in medicine today have not had the effect of decreasing costs as they have in almost all other fields of endeavour. The medical profession traditionally has been conservative and has been reluctant to have anything to do with investigations or any efforts by government to control medical costs or to create more economic efficiency in their profession. I am pleased because I believe that this attitude is changing. The profession certainly is more willing to look at new ideas of control, regulation and economic rationality and their effect, with the exception, I suppose, of the General Practitioners' Society in Australia. Most other practitioner groups are willing to look at the situation. They realise that they cannot go on in the way in which they are going at present. 
As I said before, I have some doubts about the effectiveness of this legislation because I believe that the lurk merchants in pathology still will be able to get around this sort of legislation. I believe that they will be able to do that because the fee for service situation does not work in an area like pathology when the person who is being paid to do tests-the pathologist- in fact does not do the tests, although he is responsible for the results. The situation has changed so much from the days when it was a very personalised service, when it was a very personal thing for the pathologist or the technicians immediately below him to do the tests. I believe that the system provided for by this Bill may make it a little more difficult for people to abuse the system and to over use the system, but I do not believe the patients will be able to regulate their own pathology tests any more than they can now. They will still not understand the nature of the tests and the necessity or otherwise for those tests. 
We do not oppose this legislation because we realise that something has to be done. We have grave doubts about how effective the legislation will be in achieving its aim, but it is better than nothing under the present circumstances. I believe that a combination of control or regulation, if you like, by government and restraint by the profession will be necessary in the future to alter the situation. I do not believe that legislation of this type will work while we have in pathology the system of fee for service for the most minor tests. In fact, the most minor tests are done by machines, although the pathologist who is paid for doing the tests is responsible for those machines. We support the legislation, with the doubts that I have expressed about its effectiveness. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
How many applications in each State for special benefit to bridge the 7 day waiting period have been received by the Department of Social Security since guidelines were introduced under which special benefit could be paid on hardship grounds. 
How many applications have been successful in each State. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
1 ) What was the total number of terminations of unemployment benefits in Australia on a State by State basis for the month of August 1976. 
What were the reasons for these terminations under the following headings: (a) failure to lodge Form SUI9B within the required period, (b) Commonwealth Employment Service advice, (c) return to work, (d) field officers' reports, (e) returned cheque, (0 failure to reply to Departmental correspondence and (g) other reasons. 
Of all unemployment beneficiaries terminated in August 1976, how many were reinstated without loss of payment. 
Of those unemployment beneficiaries whose benefits were terminated in August 1976, how many reapplied for benefit within four weeks of termination. 
Of those beneficiaries whose benefit was terminated in the month of August 1 976, how many appealed. 
Of those beneficiaries whose benefit was terminated in that month and appealed: (a) how many were upheld by the Department without reference to Tribunals, (b) how many were upheld as a result of recommendations by the Tribunals, (c) how many were disallowed, and (d) how many appeals were withdrawn or finalised in other ways. 
What was the average number of working days between lodgment of appeal and hearing of appeals for these appellants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
How many persons have had their Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority invalidity classification changed from Class B to Class C in the years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of Pensioners Health Benefit Card, have suffered undue hardship as inmates of Private Nursing Homes, because the Federal Government subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the Private Nursing Homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to afford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension anc very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, arc in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make sure that subsidies paid to Private Nursing Homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the Private Nursing Home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow six dollars per week to be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Benefit Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, oral a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a Means Test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's failure to take positive steps to improve employment and its discriminatory actions against the unemployed. ' 
That unemployment and the failure to improve the employment situation in this country is a matter of great importance in all our community should be self-evident. It should be self-evident to everyone in this House. From the attitude of 
Government supporters both in this place and in another place it seems that this is not so. Hence the Opposition has moved this motion today. The spectre of unemployment in this country is frightening not only because of the number of people unemployed, which now totals according to the Government's figures 340 000 people in the community, but also because of the unremitting increase in the figures, the nature of the people who are unemployed and their distribution throughout the community. It is worth noting, I believe, that the attitude of prominent government members often changed with time and their position in the House. In September 1974 the shadow Minister for Labour, the Honourable John Malcolm Fraser, said: 
The Government should pay the minimum wage if the number of unemployed exceeds 250,000. By that time it will be almost impossible for these people to get a job. 
I believe it is interesting to compare that statement with his statements as Prime Minister and with the statements of his Ministers and supporters in this place. 
We have a severe unemployment problem across the nation. In some areas it is more severe than in others. Aboriginal unemployment, of course, is a national disgrace. In toto amongst Aboriginals the unemployment rate exceeds 50 per cent. The predominance of youth amongst our unemployed is a new phenomenon. Youththat is people under 21, now comprise 50 per cent of the unemployed in this country. A further factor not seen in the unemployment figures is the so-called hidden unemployed-the large numbers of married women who have lost their jobs in the last two years due to the continuing downfall in employment opportunities in this country. We have a regional bias in unemployment. We have areas of manufacturing in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia with quite hair raising levels of unemployment. All rural areas in this country have high levels of unemployment. In all these areas the proportion of unemployed who are under 2 1 or 25 is very high. In Newcastle there are 1 50 unemployed youths for every job opportunity. Even more difficult is the fact that the duration that people are unemployed has increased and now averages over 1 8 weeks. It continues to increase, as it did in the past. Large numbers of people in this country face long term idleness. The young unemployed particularly face the associated social problems of an increased incidence of crime, vandalism, drug abuse, marital breakdown and suicide. The hopelessness which follows this long term idleness leads to lack of motivation for work which is a feature of all unemployed in the community. 
To this national disgrace is added the Government 's lack of action and the Government's lack of willingness to do anything about the unemployed. All countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, with varying degrees of the same problem, are taking steps actively to increase employment, to create jobs, to provide positive assistance for those who are unemployed and to provide positive assistance to supply jobs. The present Government adds small amounts of funds to retraining and support schemes to benefit a few, but it persistently refuses to consider job improvement, job creating activities, either by economic measures or by direct government action to increase the number of jobs available in the community. 
The Budget brought down last night does nothing to improve the hopes of the unemployed. Commentators, editorialists, economists, the  President  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce do not expect unemployment to improve. Even the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who used much more sober language this year than he did last year, when speaking about unemployment said that his activities should broadly take up the growth in the work force but perhaps not much more than that. In view of the accuracy of his predictions last year there is no hope for the unemployed. Anyone who heard the program  AM  this morning would have heard the  President  of the Small Businesses Association, who sounded as though he was in grave danger of having a stroke, judging by the language he used and the manner in which he described last night's Budget. 
The Government has obviously confirmed its intention to use unemployment as an economic tool to beat inflation in a way that no other country is doing. The unemployed seem to be statistics to play with or perhaps a club with which to attack the trade unions in this country. Added to this, the past, present and future actions of the Government as forecast in the Budget last night are aimed at further attacking the unemployed, further increasing their hardship and further making them more disadvantaged in the community. The Government began its divisive attack against the unemployed before it took office. There is no need for me to repeat, as has been repeated in this House many times, the story of the continual attack in this community on the so-called dole bludgers, with all its division and all the difficulties it has created. Ministers and members in this House and in the other place have proclaimed that unemployment is a myth. One can say only that that is some myth, with 340 000 unemployed arid 250 000 on unemployment benefits, which is an increase of 70 000 since the present Government took office. At the same time it is worth noting that in the last 1 8 months the number of people employed in the manufacturing and construction industries in this country has decreased by some 100 000. New depths have been reached in the last few days by the member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  who attacks Aboriginals whom he says are overfed and overprotected. It is interesting to note that at the time this gentleman made this statement figures showing the fearful malnutrition and ill health of Aboriginals in this country were released. 
The Government introduced taxation of unemployment benefits. It further added to the burden of the unemployed by taxing not only the benefits but also the dependent children's allowances which unemployment beneficiaries receive. No pensioner who receives dependent children's allowances has those allowances taxed, except the unemployed in this community. This was clearly a discriminatory act against the unemployed, those out of work through no fault of their own. Work tests were tightened. School leavers were excluded from eligibility for unemployment benefits. Six weeks' waiting time was introduced for the so-called voluntary unemployed. Despite these measures unemployment increased by 70 000 during this period and continues to increase. According to the predictions of everybody, including the Treasurer, it looks likely to increase in the future. The Government has introduced a measure which will increase the hardship of the unemployed, increase confusion for both the beneficiaries of unemployment benefits and the public servants who have to handle these benefits. In justification for this change the Government puts forward arguments that are manifestly dishonest and deceitful. The Government intends to change the system of unemployment benefit payments to two weeks in arrears instead of in advance and it is doing this without removing the present seven days' waiting period for unemployed in the community and without enabling the Department of Social Security, by increasing staff, to handle the sorts of changes that will be necessary. 
-Perhaps if you will let me develop the argument a little bit you will see that I do not intend to take the line that you obviously and mistakenly think I am. In future new claimants will have to wait at least 1 5 days before receiving any benefits. In fact they will have to wait almost certainly 1 8 days or more. An overburdened staff in the Department will have to cope with a new system. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said in answer to a question today, for a considerable time it will have to cope with two systems that run in parallel. There is at present considerable confusion and delay in the Department and in the Commonwealth Employment Service in the handling of unemployment benefits and sickness benefits. Things have become so bad that for the first time in the history of the Public Service members of the Department have put on work bans and overtime bans and have refused to handle inquiries from members of Parliament and have refused to collect statistics. At the moment we cannot get the exact number of people on unemployment benefits in this country because members of the staff are refusing to collect statistics. In Melbourne there was the lovely spectacle of fist fights in the Department of Social Security because of unemployment benefits. This is because of the present frustration, and to that is to be added the frustration that will be caused by this change. 
The Government uses two main arguments in justification of the change. Firstly, without quantifying the sum, the Government claims that a large sum will be saved by avoiding overpayment of benefit. No figure on how much this will be seems to be given anywhere in the Budget Papers or the Minister's speech. The information is that the saving will be some $1.8m in a full year. The second argument that the Government uses is manifestly dishonest. The Treasurer used it in his speech last night. It is the argument that this change is a result of the Myers report recommendation; that somehow this change has the approval of  Dr Myers  in his report on the unemployment benefit system.  Dr Myers  did recommend a system of payment fortnightly in arrears, but in his recommendations he was very careful to point out that if this were done in isolation, without at least removal of the 7-day waiting period, hardship and injustice would result. I quote from paragraph 4. 1 1 .7 on page 2 1 : 
Indeed, the two measures fit hand in glove -  the two measures being fortnightly payment in arrears and removal of the 7-day waiting time-  as fortnightly payment in arrears without abolition of the waiting period would cause hardship in the period before the first cheque was received. 
He also recommended a series of streamlining procedures to improve the administration of benefits in the Department and to improve the assistance available to the unemployed. He recommended changes similar to those set out in the Norgard report on the Commonwealth Employment Service. He recommended abolition of the 7-day waiting period, as did Professor Henderson and the Reverend  Mr Martin  of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and as has everyone in the welfare field who has had anything to do with unemployment beneficiaries.  Dr Myers  also recommended a change in the roles of the CES and the Department of Social Security so that the CES could be an employment service fitting people to the right jobs, counselling people about employment and how to get jobs and improving their prospects of getting jobs. The Government has taken one recommendation out of his report in complete isolation, and in doing so it has placed itself in serious danger of setting up false economies in the system and setting up more confusion than exists at present. 
It is worth remembering that within seven days of the Myers report coming down the Government announced that it could not accept the report because it would cost too much money to implement the recommendations. This statement was contradicted immediately by  Dr Myers.  He asked for figures to back up the Government's statement. They have not been forthcoming.  Dr Myers  pointed out that there was a difficulty, which  Senator Wright  will be pleased to know the Opposition acknowledges, in that the present payment system is not related to the period about which the beneficiary has declared his circumstances. In fact, in order to have prompt payment to people who qualify for unemployment benefit, the waiting period must go. If it does not go the present system of advance payment should remain. People should be able to claim the benefit as soon as they become unemployed. Those who can establish that they need an earlier payment than payment in arrears should have the option of a cheque for one week's benefit in hand, with the next payment being for one week. Further payments could then be made fortnightly without difficulties. 
One knows that the system which is being proposed is causing concern in the welfare area and in the Department of Social Security itself. As with so many other Government measures, the new system will result in more people being thrown on to the care of the voluntary welfare agencies, especially in the first and second weeks of their unemployment. These agencies are having enough difficulties at the moment because of our difficult economic circumstances. To suggest, as the Minister does, that the best way for people to get over their difficulties in the first week is to avail themselves  of  the special benefit procedure, I believe, is to be completely heartless and without concern for the very people who will need help. The special benefit procedure is very difficult. It causes division among beneficiaries. The harshness of it can be seen in the manner in which it was applied to unemployed school leavers. Even an unemployed school leaver with a mother on a widow's pension was unable to get special benefit. That person was not considered to be in any great distress. 
According to  Dr Myers,  it would take 15 days for the first cheque to be received under a new setup, but he was talking about his complete system. He was talking about the various reforms which he advocates in both the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Employment Service. I understand that officers of the Department of Social Security believe that no payment is possible within 18 days of a claim being lodged for unemployment benefit. Many recommendations of the Myers report and the Norgard report are essential to an efficient transformation from a system of payment in advance to a system of payment in arrears. Forms will have to be redesigned to establish the continuing eligibility. Information regarding the procedural arrangements must be given not only to departmental officers but also to all the claimants. It will have to be given in foreign languages. The already inadequate accommodation at Social Security offices will have to be upgraded. More counselling will be necessary. 
There is no indication in the Treasurer's speech or in the Minister's statement that the Government realises that unless it trains and attracts sufficient staff to ensure that there will be a swift turn-around of payments to beneficiaries the system will fall down. If there is a delay in the setting up of a new system or in the processing of some income statements, sometimes complete pay-runs will be missed, irregularities of payment will occur and there will be a bankup of frustrated unemployed who have not received their payments. The counters will be full as they are now and the phones will be blocked as they are so often now because at present the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Employment Service are on a staffing level sufficient to cope with about 100 000 unemployed, not the 340 000 that we have now.  Dr Myers  in his report pointed out that the overpayments problem- the $1.6m that the Government is so concerned about- was related most commonly to staff difficulties and the scarcity of staff. It was related also to the overcentralisation of the present system. In fact, offices which were decentralised had a better record than the large centralised offices of Sydney and Melbourne. The Government gives no indication in the Treasury Papers that it is willing to put money into decentralised offices. In fact it has stopped the system of decentralisation which the Labor Government was encouraging. 
It will be no good if the Government skimps over the administrative changes that will be necessary to put this change into operation efficiently, because it will create confusion and frustration and end up penalising the unemployed, who are most disadvantaged. The people who are most likely to become unemployed are the unskilled workers and the workers on very low incomes. Frequently low income earners literally live from week to week. They have literally no savings. Now they will have to go 15 to 18 days without payment of unemployment benefit unless they can obtain assistance through the special benefit system. They will have this special benefit thrown up to them as a sop. Applying for special benefit is a very difficult operation and success would involve a great change in the present system, which obviously is not coming. The voluntary organisations, such as the Brotherhood of St Laurence in Melbourne and the Mathew Talbot Hostel in Sydney, will have further increasing numbers to care for under this system. 
The second justification which is given in the Treasury statements is that this measure will save the Government $60m in Government expenditure. The sentences are so juxtaposed as to give the impression that this will be the saving of overpayments. I have repeated that the overpayments count for about $ 1.6m. The $60m saving referred to has nothing to do with overpayments. It is merely due to the fact that for 2 weeks at least there will be a delay in the final payments at the end of this financial year, and 60m will be transferred from this year's payments to next year's payments- a transfer which will not assist the taxpayer, a transfer that will not assist the Government, a transfer which will merely annoy and cause distress for an infinitesimal number of people compared to the whole state. 
In his Speech last night the Treasurer gave very little hope for the unemployed in this community. The commentators who viewed the Treasurer's Speech last night gave no hope for the unemployed in this country. No responsible observer of the Budget, whether in business, in the unions, in the newspapers or anywhere else, gives any hope for an increase in employment in this country next year which will make any difference to the number of unemployed in this country next year. The Treasurer claimed that his budgetary strategy was one to cause increase in disposable incomes in the second half of this financial year which would somehow lead to a consumer recovery. The commentator sent by the Taxation Institute of Australia to the Australian Broadcasting Commission last night to observe and comment on the Budget said that those who gain least are the real consumers of this country- those on about average weekly earnings, those on just below average weekly earnings and those on just above average weekly earnings. Their tax gain will be less than $2 a week- from $1.20 a week to $1.60 a week- and this will be more than counteracted by the increased transport costs adding to the price of goods and the increased cost of petrol in the cars they drive. 
If we cannot expect recovery from this quarter we cannot expect recovery from any other quarter, and if we do not get recovery we will not get an increase in employment. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who on the most conservative estimate will save $80 a week in tax from the tax changes, is not sufficiently wealthy to cause a consumer led recovery in the community by himself. Business does not expect recovery. Manufacturers do not expect recovery. The unemployed can see no light ahead. At the same time the Government increases the difficulties and the hardships of the unemployed in the community, as it has done consistently since it came into power. This is obviously a matter of considerable urgency. This is obviously a matter of considerable importance to the whole community. Speakers after me will talk about the methods which can be used- methods which are not inflationary- to increase the number of employed in the community. Commentators all over the country are wondering what the Government is about and why the Government is so unconcerned about the unemployed in the community. 
It is callous and it is indifferent for people in government in this country to show such little concern for the unemployed and to use unemployment as an economic tool. The Government in this country today shows its callousness and great unconcern, as it has done since it has been in power, by making things more difficult for those who are unemployed, by making benefits harder to get, by making application for benefits difficult, by failing to increase the allowances for dependants of people who are unemployed and by now introducing, half-cocked, a system of reform which, with all the other suggestions of  Dr Myers  and  Mr Norgard,  may be a very good system but the Government is pulling out that reform in isolation, an act which can only make life difficult not only for the unemployed but also for the people in the Department of Social Security, particularly those clerks in the office who answer the telephones and who will have to handle the great confusion which will inevitably arise. The Opposition suggests that, rather than attack the unemployed, and rather than make life difficult for the unemployed as the Government has done, the Government should take positive steps, as every other government in the world is doing, to create jobs, to stimulate the economy sufficiently, to take up sufficient of those unemployed and to create an economic recovery, which will mean that once again we can return to a sensible situation in this country without the difficulties we have at present. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the repeated reports during the last few months of difficulties in the unemployment and sickness benefit section and other sections of her Department leading to difficulties at counters, work bans, et cetera, of which I am sure the Minister will know. What was the result of the interdepartmental committee of inquiry into counter services? What action will the Government take on that report? Will she table that report in the Senate? 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. Do I take it from the Minister's remarks that she does in fact agree with the Treasurer's- estimate that there will be a $50m saving or thereabouts from this review? 
Senator Steele Hall in the most restrained speech I have ever heard him make in this place on any legislation involving trade unions, and for that alone I congratulate him, has just given both the Opposition and the Government a very good reason to support  Senator Button's  amendment.  Senator Steele  Hall is the first  speaker  from the Government side today to question any aspect of the Bill. On his own admission he has had very little time in which to look at the Bill and hardly any time in which to study it. Yet he can find one obvious difficulty in the Bill. So I urge Government senators to look at least at the point he has made and consider the Opposition's claim that this Bill has been too hurried, has been rushed through the Parliament with no one having had time to study it, and to support the amendment, even if it is on just those grounds alone. 
There are matters other than the general principle in this Bill about which we are worried. For that reason we oppose the legislation altogether and have moved an amendment so that we can consider the Bill at a proper time and for a proper period. This Bill has been introduced into this Parliament to give the Executive or a Minister of the Crown the power to sack or suspend and, as  Senator Steele  Hall has said, to stand down any Commonwealth public servant after making a declaration that the public servant has taken part in an industrial action and is somehow interfering with service to the public. The definition of 'industrial action' in the Bill is broad. It could not be broader and could not be more generalised. We have had three lawyers speak on the Bill so far from the Government side, and  Senator Button  and  Senator Ryan  from this side of the chamber ask where is the right of appeal against decisions made under this Bill. If when in Government the Australian Labor Party had introduced a Bill which gave a member of the Executive the power to sack anyone or to do anything without providing a right of appeal,  Senator Wright  would have been the first on his feet screaming about socialist evils and all the other nonsense he goes on with. 

 Mr Haslem, the honourable member for Canberra, as has been pointed out, was very wisely concerned about this aspect of the Bill but he was conned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and people to whom he refers as senior senators. One wonders whether the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  a lawyer himself, was one of the people who conned  Mr Haslem.  As  Senator Button  today and  Senator Wright  on other occasions in committees and in this Parliament have said, the thought of using a prerogative writ to appeal to the High Court in situations like this is ludicrous.  Senator Ryan  has pointed out that the Ombudsman Act specifically precludes the Ombudsman from considering decisions of a Minister on conditions of employment or termination of employment in the Public Service. 
Here we have a Bill which enables the executive by an arbitrary action to sack a member of the Public Service so that he loses all his accrued leave, all his accrued sick pay, his superannuation and heaven knows what else, and he simply has no right of appeal. Why have people like  Senator Wright  and civil libertarians like  Senator Baume  not complained about this lack of a right to appeal in this Bill? I suggest that in both cases the answer is perfectly obvious. This Bill involves two groups of people, the public servants and trade unionists, and if there is any group in the community that gentlemen such as those I have mentioned love to get at and love to kick it is that comprising trade unionists and public servants. There is another aspect of this legislation which I would like to raise which I do not believe has been mentioned by any honourable senator. We know that this legislation was drawn up at the time of the air traffic controllers' strike. We know that it has been sitting in a pigeon hole somewhere since then, deliberately not being shown to the Opposition, to the trade unions, to the newspapers and to the general public of this country. We know that the Government, on its own admission, considered using this legislation at the time of the air traffic controllers' strike. We know also that it suddenly decided not to do so. 
I am getting on with a decent argument now,  Senator Harradine. 
I am putting a specific argument.  Senator Harradine  may not have realised but this Bill is discriminatory in itself. 

 - Senator Harradine, who has been in Hobart skylarking around and politicking, suddenly arrives in Canberra and wants to join in the debate at this late stage. 
-It goes far wider than that because the legislation is discriminatory in itself. It was not used against the air traffic controllers because there was no one to take their place. It will be used against people who work at mail exchanges because the Government will be able to get other people in the community to substitute for the people who work at mail exchanges. This legislation cannot be used against skilled people such as the air traffic controllers because there are no substitutes for them in the community. Therefore, it is discriminatory legislation in that regard. 
The Bill makes no provision for a right of appeal. The Bill gives to the Executive power to take arbitrary action. This Bill is discriminatory in its application. It affects the whole Public Service in this community. We have had no time to consider it. To my knowledge, two honourable senators opposite have questioned provisions of the Bill. The Opposition asks that it should have more time to consider the Bill although it knows that it opposes the general principles of the Bill, as does the whole trade union movement in this community. For those reasons, I support  Senator Button's  amendment and I support the opposition to this Bill. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that the Treasurer claimed in his Budget Speech that $60m would be saved in the coming year as a result of the Government's decision to pay unemployment benefits two weeks in arrears instead of two weeks in advance? Is it not a fact that $30m of this $60m represents the postponement of fortnightly payments, which will appear in next year's Budget? Is it a fact that the Minister's Department estimates that the overpayment of unemployment benefits to be saved will amount to less than $2m? If these facts as I have stated them are correct can she tell us where the extra $28m comes from? If they are not correct, will she give us the breakdown of the $60m to be saved? 
-The Opposition welcomes the move of the Government to include Australia in the Landsat receiving facilities, as it has been included in so many other countries. Landsat is a very important satellite. As the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  said, it will enable us more readily to obtain information from which we can get a better knowledge of the ecological nature of our country and the changes in that ecology. We will be able to monitor various forms of pollution, potential locust plagues and many other things. 
One understands that in some countries it is used to monitor marihuana growing. One may have mixed feelings, depending on one's views on the use of the substance, how that should be used by the law enforcement agencies. It is of great importance and obviously has been of great importance to those countries, which have had access to its facilities, in the pinpointing of geographical areas in which mining may be usefully attempted- mining both for petroleum and for other minerals. 
We hope that the information obtained from Landsat will be available very widely in this country. We hope its use will not be restricted too much by the cost of obtaining the information which one understands is not inconsiderable when one considers the necessity to process the information available. We hope its use is not too restricted, in some cases only to those companies which can afford it. One would expect that most of the information available from Landsat should be available to geographers, mappers and agricultural experts in tertiary institutions as well as to private companies and private individuals. We will watch with interest the development of the Australian facility to receive information from Landsat. We will watch very carefully the availability that the Government makes of information from this service. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that under the new Budget arrangements families with two or more children and incomes between $140 and $200 a week will have a lower disposable income than they would have had if the previous indexed rebates for children had been retained? Would this situation not have been overcome if family allowances had been increased? Why did the Government not increase family allowances in the present Budget? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the Government is not to introduce legislation into the Parliament this session to increase pensions and lump sum payments under the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act? If so, why has this decision been made? Why should the bereaved survivors of Commonwealth employees or the injured Commonwealth employees paid under this Act be excluded from increased benefits when other pensioners have received increases? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that the Government intends to introduce legislation to amend the Social Services Act specifically to exclude school leavers from receiving unemployment benefit until after school resumes following the Christmas holidays? 
I rise for only the second or third time since I have been in this Parliament to speak in the adjournment debate. I apologise for doing so, but I feel that I must speak in order to get into the record statements which will throw a different light on, and in fact are contrary to, some of the statements made during the adjournment debate last night by  Senator Harradine.  I have no desire to re-open that debate. I did not take part in it, but I do not believe that a debate on the internal affairs of the Labor Party is beneficial to anyone in this Parliament or to the Labor Party and the people of Tasmania. During the debate several people were named, some of whom are friends of mine and some acquaintances. They were named as being pro-communist, as espousing the policies and the causes of the Communist Party of Australia, as attending meetings of the Communist Party of Australia. So that  Hansard  does not carry a record only of statements made last night, I wish to put some further facts about those people, facts which are contrary to those given last night. I think this will balance the picture and will give a more sensible and sane picture than was given last night. 
The first person I wish to speak about is  Mr David  Llewellyn who, as was said last night, will be a candidate for the Australian Labor Party at the next House of Representatives election.  Mr Llewellyn  is one of the people who was said to espouse the cause of the Communist Party, the socialist left, and whoever exists in this community.  Mr Llewellyn  happens to be a telecommunications technician. He also happens to be a church warden and a lay reader in the Anglican Church in Tasmania. He is assistant secretary of his union and is a respected member of the community. Comments such as those which were made last night are quite uncalled for but frequently occur in politics, I am afraid. 
The second person I wish to mention is  Mr Ron  Mainwaring.  Mr Mainwaring  was labelled as being the  President  of the Building Workers Industrial Union, which he is. In Tasmania, that union is in fact a moderate union and its secretary has been  President  of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council for a long time.  Mr Mainwaring,  if he is known for nothing else, is known for the fact that he is a devout evangelical Christian, a very active member of the Uniting Church and previously of the Congregational 
Church. He was also labelled as an associate of the KGB because he is  President  of the AustralianUSSR Society, although last night it was called the Australia-Soviet Friendship Society. He has been a member of that society for a long time and joined at the specific invitation of a very distinguished Anglican Bishop of Tasmania, the Right Reverend Bishop Cranswick. The AustralianUSSR Society is one of many friendship societies in this country which are aimed at improving relationships between Australia and the USSR, Australia and the United States of America, and many other countries. It has amongst its members its patron,  Sir Mark  Oliphant. It has on its committee  Sir Charles  Moses, the Right Reverend Bishop Cranswick, the Honourable Keppel Enderoy, Professor Moore, Edna Roper and many others.  Mr Clive  Evatt is the society's patron in New South Wales, but during the short time I took to research the matter this evening I was unble to find all the other office bearers. 
I am sure that there are communists in the Australian-USSR Society, but to label all members of the society as communists or KGB agents is as silly as labelling all members of the AustraliaUnited States Society or whatever it is called as Central Intelligence Agency agents. I suggest that the comments that were made last night about people who cannot defend themselves were not worthy of this Parliament.  Ms Gillian  Blain is a professional librarian in Hobart at the University of Tasmania. She organised the recent Libraries Association Conference in Tasmania, which was attended by 1,000 or more people and was very successful. She is wellrespected in the community. To my knowledge, she has attended only one or two State Labor Party conferences. According to the statements made last night, she consistently votes with what is called the socialist left, although where that exists in Tasmania I do not know. At one of those conferences there were no recorded divisions; so no one knows how anyone voted. At the other conference I believe there was one.  Mr Joe  Benson I do not know so well, but I understand that he is a public servant in Tasmania. I also understand- I have checked the facts- that he is a member of the parish council of his Catholic church in Cygnet and that he is a devout and conscientious member of that church. Yet this man is labelled as a pro-communist and a supporter of the Communist Party of Australia. 

 Mr Jim Simmonds, who is the Secretary of the Hospital Employees Federation, No. 2 Branch, in Tasmania- the northern branch of the Federation- was previously a senior official in the Public Service Association in Tasmania. It was said in the speech last night that he is a member of the Australian Labor Party Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. He is not. It is claimed that he attended a meeting in December 1976 at Orford in Tasmania with operatives of the Communist Party of Australia. He has issued a statement today denying that he was at a conference at Orford in December 1976 or at any other time with members of the Communist Party of Australia, or operatives of the Communist Party of Australia or any other party. He has not been to Orford for many years, and when he did go there he went there for the same reasons as most Tasmanians go to Orford- because it is a beach resort, a holiday resort- to get some sun and to swim. He has issued a statement today, and of course he challenges the person who made the remarks last night to repeat them outside this Parliament. 

 Mr John Coates, of course, is known to many people in this place. He was the member for Denison in the House of Representatives from 1972 to 1975.  Mr Coates  was known by members on this side and many members on the other side in the other place for the enormous amount of time he put into his job, the enormous amount of help he gave to the people of Denison, and because he was elected in 1974 when really he should have been one of the first candidates to be defeated and in 1975, when he was defeated, he was defeated by a lower margin than most other people in this country, in a seat which is normally a very safe Liberal seat. The big claim against  Mr Coates  apparently was that he was vice-patron of the Australian Democratic People's Republic of Korea Society- the North Korea Society in Tasmania. I spoke to  Mr Coates  today. The only meeting or function resembling the North Korea Society that he can remember going to when he was a member was a film night in Hobart when films were shown by an Australian who had visited North Korea. If he was elected vicepatron, he certainly does not know that he was elected. It was not while he was present. The simple fact of the matter is that it would not be surprising if the local member were elected vicepatron of such a society, as many members of Parliament on both sides of the House are vicepatrons of all sorts of friendship societies in their various States. 

 Mr Allan Newitt whom I do not know well at all, was said to have been a member of the Communist Party. My only reply is: So what? There are people on both sides of this House who have been members of other political parties. There is at least one member of the Australian Labor 
Party in this Parliament who was previously a prominent member of the Liberal Party. There is at least one member of the National Country Party in this Parliament who was previously a member of the Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party. There are in this Parliament, I believe, two members of the Liberal Party who were previously members of the Democratic Labor Party. There are many members of the Labor Party who have been in other parties. I do not know  Mr Newitt  but I think the remark that he was once a member of the Communist Party, without any other backup, is not very good evidence to condemn him in this place when he cannot answer in this place. 
The other person whom I know at all well is, of course, Tim Thorne. Tim Thome is an ex-teacher and a poet of some repute- a poet who in fact can get his poems published, which is very unusual in this country. I was unable to contact him today because he is in Sydney seeing his publisher. Tim Thome is a very radical member of the Labor Party. He never makes any bones at all about it. He publicly states his views. He does not hide his views. I understand that tonight he has issued a statement saying that he has never been and is not a member of the Communist Party of Australia, and he also has challenged  Senator Harridine  to say outside this Parliament that he is. 
That is all I wish to do. Some of those people I know well. Some of those people I do not know well. I am sure, as far as I can be sure in the short time I have had today, that everything I have said here tonight is correct. We have a principle in this country. I believe that people are allowed to express their views and to express them openly, but we should not allow people to be condemned because of guilt through association as we heard in the speech last night. I merely wish to get on to the record of this Parliament further details of the people who were mentioned last night and to correct some of the inaccuracies in the speech last night. 
asked the Minister for Social Security upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government propose to implement the second main report of the Henderson Poverty Inquiry relating to law and poverty. 
What discussions have taken place with (a) the AttorneyGeneral's Department and (b) the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs concerning the implementation of the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security, and I am sure she will be surprised to know that it relates to the Auditor-General's report, which was tabled yesterday. The report refers to estimated overpayments of $40m in unemployment benefits and some $ 1 8m in pensions in the last year. Does the Minister agree with the Auditor-General's estimates? If she does agree, to what does she attribute this high level of overpayment and what does the Government intend to do about it? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Does she recall saying yesterday in the Senate and outside the Senate that she had had very direct communication with the Prime Minister during the past year on the matter of staff numbers in her Department and that she believed further staff were necessary to enable her Department to give an effective and efficient service? Does the Minister recall that the Public Service Board at page 3 of its report states that difficulties were reported with the processing of unemployment benefits during 1976 and 1977 and that these problems had been considered by an interdepartmental committee on staff ceilings and a report prepared for the Prime Minister? Is the Minister aware that yesterday in another place the Prime Minister asserted that he had never been told that existing staff levels in the Minister's Department were inadequate or that there was difficulty in controlling payment of unemployment benefits due to that reason. I now ask the Minister: What is the truth of this matter? Who is telling the truth? Has the Prime Minister misled the Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware that it is claimed that the Public Service Board agreed in full to all proposals for increased staff put to it by the Department of Social Security last year and that the Government at no time reduced the Board's proposals? If this is the fact, who is responsible for the deficiencies in staffing in the Minister's Department? Is it the Department for not claiming enough staff? Is it the Public Service Board, which had already been critical about the staffing situation, for not adequately investigating the situation or is it the Government? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the arrangement that the Minister's Department had with the Public Service Board that staff ceiling levels are reviewed each three months. Is it a fact, as reported in the Press on the weekend, that the Public Service Board or the interdepartmental committee on staff ceilings considerably pruned the staff numbers requested by the Minister before submitting them to the Prime Minister? If so, can she tell us why this was done? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
1 ) Which of the additional local offices requested by the Minister's Department, referred to at Appendix III to the Myers Report on Unemployment Benefits and Administration, page 123 are the nine offices in Melbourne considered to be urgently required. 
What are the locations of the other recommended offices. 
-I wish to ask a supplementary question. I asked the Minister about serious accusations made by  Mr Jull  concerning two citizens of Queensland. I asked the Minister whether she could assure the Senate that investigations would be made into the activities of these two gentlemen to see whether they had been justly or unjustly treated. These gentlemen are both alleged to act as warrantors for many hundreds of pensioners in Queensland. Should not the Government have a full investigation into this whole episode? 
Will there be an investigation? That is all I want to know. 
-The Senate is debating cognately the National Health Acts Amendment Bill 1977 and the National Health Amendment Bill 1977. The first of the two Bills amends the National Health Act and the Nursing Homes Assistance Act to provide for increased benefits to be paid by the Commonwealth in respect of eligible uninsured patients in approved nursing homes and to provide for hospital benefit organisations to pay similar benefits to contributors who are patients in approved nursing homes by making the payment of such benefits a condition of a fund's registration. The National Health Amendment Bill will ensure that all privately insured patients pay for services which are provided in the various States by the Commonwealth Health Laboratories. 
The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. The National Health Acts Amendment Bill is obviously the most important one and, while not opposing it, we reject the claim of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her second reading speech that the Bill represents anything like 'a major advance introducing a new era of financial security for nursing home patients'. We suspect- in fact we are sure- that the new era, as it is called, will quickly be demonstrated to have the same shortcomings as the old era, and once again the whole system will need to be amended. However, under the system with which we are working, and in view of the Government's ideological and philosophical limitations, the Opposition realises that this is probably the only approach the Government can take in the present circumstances. 
Accommodation for the aged and for the frail aged has long been an unsatisfactory part of our welfare system in this country. The change from the extended biological family to the nuclear family which has occurred this century and the apparently irreversible but regrettable failure of people to be willing to care for their aged relatives has led to the situation in this country of aged people too often being placed in institutions such as nursing homes. Much as we would like to reverse that trend, I dare say that it will be difficult to do so. It is a trend which has increased in Western countries, especially since the Second World War. The rise of the nursing home as a dominating force in the provision of accommodation for the aged in this country is a post-war phenomenon which grew out of the misconception that the aged were sick and inevitably needed hospital-type accommodation. That is a misconception of which everyone in the Parliament is well aware- 
However, the stage has been reached where it is very difficult to reverse that trend and we are faced with a situation where nursing homes are dominating the scene. They are caught up in increasing costs. Those private nursing homes which are profit-making are forced to raise their fees in order to maintain their profits and the others in order to maintain their services. The patients and their families are facing bigger and bigger gaps between their incomes and the fees that are charged. Added to that, the nursing home lobby is ever-willing to use emotional arguments, to use their patients and the feelings of insecurity of their patients' families, to pressure this and all other governments, including the previous Labor Government, to provide support for their enterprises. 
In this legislation the Government is making an attempt through the new Medibank system to close the gap for patients and their families, and I do not decry that effort. However, I point out that as a long term solution it will not succeed and that a coherent plan for domiciliary assistance and things like day care centres, hostels and flats will be needed in the future to keep patients out of nursing homes, which as we know are the most expensive form of care for the aged. Costs in nursing homes will continue to rise, they will rise inevitably, and the necessity for increased government expenditure in this area will inevitably follow. 
In drafting this legislation, the Government was also faced with another group of political operators, the registered health benefits funds, who earlier this year filled our mail boxes with tales of woe about the effect on their cosy businesses of the inclusion of nursing home benefits. They waged a campaign reminiscent of the campaigns waged against the previous Government to try to get their own way, to make sure that their comfortable situation was maintained even after the new Medibank changes. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is plainly less than enamoured of those gentlemen, and I hope that members on both sides of this chamber will recognise in future the nature of their tactics and treat them as they deserve to be treated. I hope that in its future dealings with these people in respect of nursing home benefits, the reinsurance pool, and the subsidies necessary to maintain patients in nursing homes under the health insurance scheme, the Government will take a careful look at the reserves and operations of the voluntary health funds before it is pressured into taking too much notice of their blandishments. 
The legislation purports to provide for the setting of rates of benefits to cover some 70 per cent of patients in non-government National Health Act nursing homes in each State, to review these rates annually and, we assume, to update them. But is worth pointing out- certainly, it is not made clear in the second reading speech in the Senate or in the other House- that this annual review, in fact, is a promise- a statement by the Minister that it will happen. It is not provided for in this legislation, other than giving the Minister the right to do so by regulation when he sees fit. If the Government is serious about this matter, it is hard to understand why some provision could not have been written into the Act for annual review. Why could it not have been made part of this legislation? 
I would like to point out that it has always been assumed in the past that the Commonwealth compensation legislation would be changed so that the rates paid to injured employees and their dependants would be upgraded annually in line with the minimum wage. It is now obvious that this will be done every two years. It is a budgetary decision of the Government, done at the whim of the Government. It is a new introduction. There was an assumption that the rates would be upgraded annually. There is an assumption in this legislation that they will be upgraded annually but there is no guarantee that this will happen. In times of inflation, as is the case now, nursing home fees rise rapidly. From November 1975 to October 1977, they have increased by more than 50 per cent in all States except Queensland and South Australia. Every member of this Parliament receives representations during every year, when fees go up and the burden on patients and their families increases, to do something about this gap that arises between the fees and the subsidies and in the future, I suggest, between the fees and the benefits that will be payable. This legislation which promises annual reviews will alleviate that position a little. But if history is any indication, the new rates probably will cover the situation for only a few months and new cycles of increases will continue. 
The second claim that has been made about this legislation is that its introduction will save the Government considerable expenditure each year. The Minister claims that some $50m will be saved but no statistical backing is given for this calculation. However, it would seem that the level of Government subsidy will be considerable and it will not be totally on a direct subsidy basis. Obviously, the people who opt for hospital only insurance and the families which pay the Medibank levy plus $135 a year payment for hospital only insurance are subsidised, we are told, by about $50 a year. Undoubtedly, there will be a call for an increase in this subsidy as a result of the legislation. As I said before, I hope that the Minister views such calls with a jaundiced eye, that he looks at the reserves of the hospital funds and at the accumulated funds available, and makes sure that the calls for such increases are justified. 
It is equally obvious that many of the patients -in fact, I believe possibly all the patients- will go into the re-insurance pool designed to cover patients of this type. It is not clear how much more, if any more, the Government will have to contribute to the pool under the new arrangements but it is certainly a further source of 
Government subsidy. Thus, the saving to the Government may be considerably less than it seems it will be from the Minister's second reading speech. However, it is worth pointing out that the cost to the community will not change. The cost to the individual through insurance contributions inevitably will increase. The cost will be relatively more harsh on the low income earners because a greater percentage of their income will go in health insurance payments. In fact, as has been pointed out by members on both sides in the House of Representatives, it may drive some people out of the private funds into Medibank, thus defeating what seems to be the Government's purpose in introducing this legislation. 
I have said that the Opposition does not oppose this legislation. We realise that the Government is attempting to close the gap in nursing home fees. We realise that the Government is limited by its thinking and by its approach to the present economic situation. It has very little alternative. But bearing this in mind, we must become aware of the fact that we have become landed in this country with a system of care for the aged, and particularly the frail aged, which has as its emphasis institutional care of the nursing home type. Governments of all political persuasions inevitably will have to grasp the nettle and radically rethink this problem, as has been pointed out in the Holmes report, as has been pointed out in the report entitled  Care for the Aged  put out by the Social Welfare Commission and as is pointed out at every geriatric conference and conference of aged persons organisations every year. It is inevitable that the cost of nursing home care and accommodation for the aged in general, in fact, will continue to become more and more a financial burden unless we radically change our views and we radically change our attitudes. I believe that we must change the emphasis completely away from this type of care and any institutional type of care. We must emphasise domiciliary care either by home support and home maintenance systems, through home help services and through the provision of portable rental flats- the so-called granny flats- that are being introduced into Tasmania. I am referring to flats that can be added to houses which provide the aged person with accommodation near his family but not in the family home because most family homes in Australia are just not suited to take extra people. Such accommodation could be used when it is needed at a reasonable rental. It could provide independence, with the security of having relatives close by, while that person lives. I suppose that ideally we should attempt to change our attitude and society's attitude towards caring for the aged at home. But as I said before, it seems this is a difficult thing to do under present circumstances. 
We must also emphasise more the independent and semi-independent type of accommodation in units and hostels. But while we have profit making homes in the predominant situation they now occupy, we will have the maldistribution of aged persons accommodation which is obvious throughout Australia and particularly obvious in Victoria. We will have the inevitable grasping each year for more Government assistance to maintain services and profits. In most cases, the assistance is needed genuinely to provide the reasonable services that are available. While the concentration is on this sort of thing, the true function of our program of caring for the aged is ignored. Successive governments, including the last Labor Government, have been locked into the system of nursing homes. For humanitarian reasons and through political pressure, we have had to support them as they are. I am aware that to change the system will be difficult and in some cases may necessitate the payment of compensation and the changing of nursing homes, but sooner or later we will have to do that and sooner or later people on both sides of the Parliament will have to face this problem. 
It is a stupid system when we have a shortage of accommodation, a maldistribution of accommodation and a lack of balance in the appropriateness of this accommodation. It is a crazy system when the standard weekly fee in homes varies from $129.50 a week in Queensland to $184.45 a week in Victoria. There is no way that such differences should exist. I am aware of why some of those differences exist. If ever we needed a national program with national standards, we need it in the provision of aged persons accommodation. We will never achieve a proper balance in aged persons accommodation in this country if governments do what this Government has done, and that is to restrict the funds that are available in a time of economic distress when the aged need more care than at other times. 
The Government now is in the situation where its aged persons housing program, if the Government is to achieve its aims, will involve a trebling of the funds available last year. We will never achieve that balance while we are locked into the situation which unfortunately grew up in the 1950s and 1960s and which we seem to be unable to change because of political and other pressures. I have tried not to talk in a partisan manner. We all have to face the fact that the system is inappropriate and that it reeks of injustice and inequity. This legislation is symptomatic of the problem that exists. It is a cosmetic effort to reduce some of the hardships. But the basic problems in our system will remain. 
We do not oppose the National Health Amendment Bill either. We accept that if people choose to take out private insurance it is reasonable that their funds should contribute to the costs of the Commonwealth Health Laboratories, which give such an excellent service to the public in many parts of this country. The Commonwealth Health Laboratories have played an important part in the provision of pathology services in many parts of Australia where otherwise they would not have been available. I include my own State. I know that there is pressure in my State, and in other States, to have the Commonwealth Health Laboratories closed down, but I believe that they still perform a very useful function. They are still there to provide pathology tests for those people who otherwise would not be able to afford them- if the local private pathologists are unwilling to accept just fee for service. Frequently the Commonwealth Health Laboratories are able to perform tests which private pathologists would not be able to perform economically because of the size of the cities and towns- in my case, the State- in which they exist. Although we accept that they exist in competition with the private health laboratories, people who are contributing voluntarily to private health funds should pay for the pathology tests when they are carried out in the Commonwealth Health Laboratories. I impress on the Government that attempts to close these laboratories down while they are providing a useful and good service would be most unwise. 
As I said, we do not oppose either piece of legislation. The first piece of legislation is necessary in the circumstances but is another cosmetic attempt to cope with the inequitable and difficult situation of nursing homes and aged persons accommodation generally in this community. Sooner or later we will have to face up to a new system and we will have to face up, however politically unpalatable it may be, to changing the present system. The second Bill is of little consequence overall, but it provides for those in voluntary funds to contribute towards the maintenance of the Commonwealth Health Laboratories. We have no intention of holding up the legislation, but we hope that it is only interim legislation while all parties and all governments look towards setting up a coherent plan for the future. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Before I call the next  speaker  I would just like to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that honourable senators are not allowed to read speeches or to make overuse of copious notes. I just make that statement, and I now call  Senator Melzer. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the 
Dremmel family, of which 1 am sure the Minister is well aware- a family with many children and many problems. As the Minister has now widened eligibility for the handicapped children's allowance to assist low income families, does she envisage this extending to families like the Dremmel family which has children with heart troubles, asthma and other physical problems? Are there any situations where such a family in which the father is working can receive special benefit under the discretion available to the Director-General of Social Services, or is special benefit merely restricted in all cases to families which have almost no income? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the incident in Brisbane two weeks ago when six or eight men were allegedly rescued by Commonwealth and State police from a condition of apparent slavery. I ask: As there were accusations at the time by the Press and by members of the Minister's Party of abuse of the warrantor system and of people being held against their wills, and because the Minister promised at that time that there would be an investigation, can she tell us what stage the investigation has reached at the moment? What action has been taken and has anyone been charged with offences arising out of this incident? When can the Parliament expect to have a report on this matter? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The Opposition welcomes the tabling of the report by  Mr Justice  Ludeke on medical fees in this country. This is the second or third such report determining fees for medical benefit purposes and the co-operation that was given  Mr Justice  Ludeke by the Australian Medical Association on this occasion I believe demonstrates that we have come a long way. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
Does the Government plan to sell the Maryport Rehabilitation Centre at Mount Martha, Victoria; if so, why. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen the figures on the poverty line which were released yesterday, I understand, by Professor Henderson, and in particular the claim that many large families are now falling even further below the poverty line, although the breadwinner is an income earner, and also that large families with children are badly affected? I further ask: Does the Minister have any details of these figures? If the figures are factual, will the Government consider making supplementary payments under the special benefits scheme for the few families experiencing this difficulty, even though the breadwinner is earning an income? 
I, too, intend to speak fairly briefly in the debate this evening as there have been so many speakers in the last few weeks.  Senator Lewis  brought up a subject which has been of some controversy in the Parliament and in the community for some time. He mentioned the concern of the Women's Action Alliance for this matter but I notice that he was fairly careful not to go on and advocate the proposal put by the Women's Action Alliance for a housewife's wage to be taken out of the husband's salary, which would involve the setting up of a bureaucracy and the active discouragement of women to go into the work force. The problems about which  Senator Lewis  talks involve, as he said, anomalies in our taxation system. The two income family has a considerable tax advantage. There are inequities in the taxation system involving partnerships between husbands and wives and others. In some situations they are allowed and in others they are not. 
I point out to  Senator Lewis,  although he was not in the Parliament at the time, that the Party to which he belongs was strongly in favour of the present system of advantages to the two-income family when we debated the Medibank levy as it was originally proposed by the Labor Party. This problem will be solved I believe by a reformation of the taxation system, by a resolution of the problems in this community and an acceptance of the views of the community as to who is dependent and who is not dependent in the family set-up. This will probably involve the establishment of a guaranteed minimum income scheme in the form suggested by Professor Henderson rather than by way of legislation which I believe, in the case of  Senator Lewis'  suggestion, will in fact actively discourage women from working. One wonders why women should not be allowed to use their skills and get the same satisfaction as men in the community if that is what they wish to do. One wonders why they should not make contributions to the community consistent with their skills and education if that is the best way to make them happy. 
I do not believe families, including children, will be happy if women who have skills and expertise are discriminated against in the work force as used to be the case in the 1950s and 1960s before we had equal pay. Women were actively encouraged to enter the work force in the 1950s and 1960s by the government of the day and by industry of the day because they were a source of cheap labour in a growing economy. I believe that to attribute the present unemployment problems to married women in the work force, as  Senator Lewis  did, or to people having two jobs, as  Senator Kilgariff  did earlier, or to the left wing unionists, whoever they may be- we could talk about that at length- is getting away from the whole basis of the problem. If we took the arguments of  Senator Kilgariff  and  Senator Lewis  concerning married women to the extreme, I do not believe  Senator Walters, Senator Martin  or  Senator Coleman  would be very impressed when we insisted that they stay home rather than have incomes. 
Women who sew in factories have special skills that are needed in the community. They should not be forced to stay at home.  Senator Kilgariff  suggested that everyone with two jobs should be forced to give up one. I suggest that would also deplete both parties in this place. I believe he may be under some difficulties in the circumstances. Similarly, blaming the problems of the community on the left wing unions, the Industries Assistance Commission or anyone else except the Government gets us nowhere and will get us nowhere. 
The Budget we are discussing I believe can be described as a typical budget for the present Government- the most conservative government, I suggest, that this country has seen since World War II. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  points up the deficiencies of this Budget, and I therefore support it. The aims of the Budget are fairly typical for this Government They are to redistribute wealth and income to the more wealthy members of the community who in fact need it least; and to divide society both by this method of redistribution of income and by the continuing denigration of the unemployed which the present Government parties started before they came to office and by the sort of industrial confrontation that we have seen recently and that we are seeing now and are obviously going to see more of in the next few days. The Budget, as  Mr Wentworth,  who has just resigned from the Liberal Party, believes, puts far too much of a burden on the lower and middle income groups in this misguided attempt to get over the economic problems of this country. It continues the tactics which were started in this Government's first Budget of neglecting the unemployed as people, of using the unemployed as pawns in an economic chess game and not being concerned about the effects of unemployment on these people and their families. 
The Government's intention to refuse benefits to those who are out of work in the present industrial difficulties in Victoria, even though they may not be directly involved, is, I believe, typical of this tactic of the Government. These people will be used as pawns in this game of industrial relations confrontation. I do not believe that is fair under any circumstances. I do not believe it is a sensible way to go about attempting to cure this country's economic problems. There is not much hope for the unemployed in this Budget. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in Budget Paper No. 2 says of the unemployment situation in the coming year: 
On the balance the likelihood is for little oi no change over this period. 
Let us remember that last year the same gentleman predicted a steady decrease in unemployment over the financial year. When we look at the results that followed that statement we see that the outlook is pretty grim. Professor Warren Hogan, who is the Government's economic guru and its chief supporter in academia, said that unemployment may be 6.7 per cent in the new year and that he would not be surprised if it reached 8 per cent. I suggest there is very little joy for the unemployed, despite the claims of the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that this Budget will somehow increase employment. When we consider the statistics on employment rates in the community which are prepared by the Austraiian Bureau of Statistics we get a clear picture. The statistics on the unemployed do not contain thousands of married women who once they have lost their jobs, do not bother to register for employment. When we consider that for the period December to February last year and this year the figures do not include school leavers who were actively discouraged from registering for employment, we realise that unemployment is much more serious than the figures suggest. The employment figures produced by the Bureau of Statistics add to the gloom. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, comparing June 1976 with June 1977, are more than disturbing. In fact overall there was a drop of some 13,400 people in the civilian work force, a drop from 4.739 million odd to 4.72 5 million odd. In manufacturing industry there was a drop of 40,700. In the construction industry the drop was 10,000, from 371,000 to 36 1,000. The only places where there were gains in employment were the service and government industries, the non-productive areas. This must be of considerable disturbance. When we hear Government spokesmen say that 122,000 new jobs were created in the last year, we wonder where the figures come from. The fact of the matter is that the $ 1,000m that was made available for the investment allowance did nothing. All it did was make an unexpected grant to those who made replacements of machinery which were in fact unavoidable. Industry was working and is still working at 70 per cent to 80 per cent capacity. An investment allowance of this type has no effect on unemployment. These type of tight fisted across the board cuts in capital expenditure had a devastating effect on the construction and manufacturing industries in this country. Across the board cuts in the Public Service, for that matter, had an effect because they were without consideration for need in the various departments and caused a lack of morale and in fact inefficiency, and their clients therefore suffered. 
The disturbing unemployment situation and the disquieting financial situation in this country according to the Government has nothing to do with it. The Government continually looks for scapegoats. It continually blames scapegoats. The first scapegoat is usually the trade unions, despite the fact that there has been a vast improvement in the figures for time lost through strikes and industrial disputes and despite the fact that real wages have dropped in the last year. We get speeches like the one by  Senator Kilgariff  tonight in which he blamed everyone from Halfpenny and Faure to every other trade unionist in the country, whom he described as left wing, socialist left or communist, for all this country 's economic problems. 
Of course, one can add to the list of people and organisations who are blamed. The Industries Assistance Commission has been blamed and roundly castigated for destroying the economic climate in this community. The Australian Labor Party has been consistently blamed, particularly  Mr Bill  Hayden, who is in an extraordinary situation. According to Government spokesmen,  Mr Hayden  has such an effect upon the hard-headed financial operators in this country and overseas that he had only to point to the outward flow of money from this country and he had only to point out that the Government was not doing enough to defend the currency of this country to cause a devaluation in 1976 and to cause the Government to borrow $ 1,700m overseas in 1977 to defend the currency. If  Mr Hayden  is such a powerful man, if  Mr Hayden  can by himself in a couple of speeches affect so easily and so much the international monetary situation as it concerns this country and if Government spokesmen give him credit for being able to do that, I suggest that the best thing the Government can do is resign and hand over the Treasury of this country to  Mr Hayden  because such a powerful man could obviously quickly solve our problems. Of course, it is nonsense to say that one man on the front bench of an Opposition in a country like . this can affect those hard-headed, shrewd operators in such a way. He was just pointing out what was happening. He was not causing what was happening. 
Other people and organisations are also blamed. The National Country Party of AustraliaMr Sinclair in particular- has blamed the Pommy shop stewards. The Prime Minister seems at times to be blaming our Japanese customers. We had the recent phenomenon in this place of speakers like  Senator Scott  and others blaming our lack of national will and saying that we should somehow develop a national will to go out and do unspecified things, apart from working hard, that will get this country out of its problems- to have a sort of Uri Geller effect on the economy- and thereby turn this economy in the right direction. That sort of preaching from the mountain- that sort of exhortation of the people- has been going on in the two years in which this Government has been in office and it has not succeeded. What is happening in this country is that we have high unemployment for the simple reason that no jobs are available, that job opportunities are decreasing and that there is no likelihood of jobs becoming available in the community. 
When people are in the situation that some are in now of needing jobs the Government spends small amounts of money on support schemes and training schemes for the unemployed, which we did not oppose but which we have pointed out do not supply jobs and which we have pointed out are very much band aid measures. We have been frequently told that the people of this country are expected to lead an economic recovery by spending more money but they are finding that their disposable incomes have dropped. It is no wonder they are not responding. I wonder why the Government cannot see that. 
The simplest example in this Budget  of  the Government's inability to manage the scene at the moment is to be found in the new tax proposals. When the new tax system was introduced it was trumpeted in this place and in other places as a great reform and as the start of a new  Utopia  in which everybody was going to get more money and in which the whole community was suddenly going to recover because df vastly increased amounts of money in its pocket. It was not long- in fact, it was only a couple of daysbefore disquietening noises were made in the Parliament, in the community and in the Press about the new scheme not being all it was set out to be. The editorialists in this country were particularly severe on it. The financial writers of our conservative newspapers were quite harsh in their criticism of it. One remembers  Mr Risstrom  of the Taxpayers Association, who is certainly not a supporter of the Opposition, pointing out the fraudulent nature of the changes. About 10 days later the Country Party woke up to the fact that the new scheme would disadvantage the farmers under the tax averaging scheme. In fact, changes to the new scheme were announced two weeks later, which was before the Budget even passed through this place. 
The best example of the confusion, the contradiction and the difficulty with the tax changes was seen in the two Houses of this Parliament. We had contradictory statements being made in both House of the Parliament. We had contradictory documents from the Treasurer and the Prime Minister pointing out what the new taxation system would do. We had an absolute inability in this House of Ministers to answer questions about the effects of the changes. In fact, 

 Senator Wriedt and I are still awaiting answers to questions which we were unable to get answered when we were asking at Question Time just what was happening. 
A comparison of the new tax system with the old tax system on an indexed basis shows that people earning $25,000 a year and $30,000 a year will pay up to 1 1 per cent and 13.5 per cent less tax now than they would have under the old system. Those on $6,000 and $7,000 a year will pay 0.4 per cent or 0.2 per cent more tax. A comparison of the after tax income of families with two to five children and incomes between $120 and $200 a week was produced by the statistical service of the Parliamentary Library. It demonstrates that if one compares the systems introduced by this Government since coming to power with the Hayden Budget introduced in 1975 and indexed one will find that all but two groups of people are considerably worse off and in fact will have a lower disposable income, they will be unable to lead the consumer-led recovery that, according to the Government, was apparently need in this country. It is in this group that the vast majority of taxpayers lie. I trunk that the best thing I can do is to seek leave to have the table to which I am referring incorporated in  Hansard.  I have spoken about it to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who has kindly agreed to its incorporation in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="075232197710110_49_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="075232197710110_50_2.jpg"></graphic>

But the changes to the taxation system are not the only reason why people in this area have a lower disposable income now than they would have had under the old system. Another reason is the introduction of the Medibank levy. A third reason is the failure to increase the family allowances under the new scheme. 
The introduction of the new family allowances scheme was hailed in this House and other places as the greatest triumph of the last Budget. The Opposition agreed with these changes. It certainly did not oppose the reform. But it pointed out repeatedly that unless regular increases were made m the new family allowances to cope with inflation many people- those people with children- would suffer. We voiced our suspicions, and our suspicions have been confirmed, that one of the reasons that the new allowances were introduced was to avoid the consequences of having indexed children's rebates under the previous system. Such indexed rebates would have cut the Government's income. The failure to increase the family allowances has resulted in those people having a lower disposable income. When the responsible Minister was asked why the family allowances were not increased to cope with indexation his only reply was that it was not a Government promise to increase these allowances when they were introduced. This is a strange argument, perhaps a surprising argument, from a government which, when it came to power, ignored the promises it had made. Now it implies that unless it promised something it will not do it at all. 
The failure to update the family allowances may cause problems. It certainly has, as the table I have asked to be incorporated in  Hansard  demonstrates. The failure to increase other allowances will cause more problems. The Government has failed to increase allowances for dependants of pensioners and the supplementary rent allowance for the poorest of pensioners- those who earn very little income apart from their pension and who live in rented accommodation.. They have remained the same since May 1975. This is a direct blow at those who are less able to take it. Supplementary benefits affect 14 per cent of old age pensioners, 43 per cent of invalid pensioners and 60 per cent of supporting mothers. To add to this the dependants' allowances that are paid to those on unemployment and sickness benefit and the supplementary benefits that are paid to sickness beneficiaries are now to be taxed. They were not previously taxed and they are not taxed when paid to other beneficiaries. This is another example of the failure in this Budget to care for the disadvantaged. 
Beneficiaries and pensioners have suffered from this lack of concern, but they have suffered indirectly from another lack of concern by the Government. The Government caused to be set up inquiries by  Mr Norgard  and  Dr Myers  into the system of unemployment benefits in this country and the operation of the Commonwealth Employment Service. These men have made reports with suggestions for changes in the administration of benefits and they have been ignored or dismissed out of hand. In one instance the Government claimed to have taken note of  Dr Myers'  recommendations, and in that instance the Government deliberately distorted the situation.  Dr Myers  suggested that payment of unemployment benefit two weeks in arrears would in fact be a good thing, but he suggested another change which, as he put it, would have to go hand in glove with it. He suggested that to avoid injustice the scrubbing of the seven day waiting period was essential.  Dr Myers  is not the only one to have suggested the scrubbing of the seven day waiting period. Everyone, including the Commissioners of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and every other group which has been interested in this subject, has urged that the seven day waiting period should be scrubbed. The first part of  Dr Myers'  suggestion was taken up, and it was proclaimed as a suggestion of  Dr Myers.  The second was ignored. In the words of  Dr Myers,  this will create injustice. Potentially it will throw the 67 per cent of unemployed who have cash savings of less than $50 on to the already overworked voluntary welfare agencies, or on to their friends or families. So in this area of social security, as in the area of the taxation system, the Government, by using carefully phrased words and careful phrases proclaiming great changes, has not done what it proclaimed it would do. Certainly it has not done what it seems to be doing. 
One can go on and on through the Budget finding areas like this where one thing is said and where, on close investigation, it can be seen that another thing is in fact done. Many people are greatly disturbed about the future of the Government system of assistance to aged persons' accommodation. One year ago the Government proclaimed a triennium of funding and announced who would be funded under this system. That funding was to amount to some $220m in the first year, the Government spent $45 m. This year in the Budget the Government expects to spend $50m. This means that even to keep up with the proposal for the triennium and not accounting for inflation at all, the Government will have to find $130m, some three times what it has found this year. Finding that amount of money will involve a radical turnaround in the Government 's economic policies. The Government's ability to spend that sort of money will involve an extraordinary improvement in the country's economic situation. The people who are involved in trying to provide accommodation to aged people in this country- accommodation which is in short supply, accommodation which in some places is desperate- are very concerned. There is no hope of anyone who did not apply at the start of last year getting any funds at all. 
As the amendment suggests and as many other speakers on this side of the chamber have pointed out, the Government, by its budgetary policies and its restrictive and contracting policies on the economy, will intensify and prolong the present recession. By the Treasurer's admission, the unemployment situation will not improve. On every other commentator's word, on the Government's own adviser's word, unemployment must increase. This Budget, like the last Budget, will have little impact on inflation. 
All the fiddling of the inflationary figures and trying to remove things like the Medibank levy from the consumer price index figures will not have very much effect on inflation. The tax system is regressive. Those on high incomes of $40,000 a year will save some $3,500 a year in tax. Those on middle incomes or low incomes will save very little- in some instances $140 a year- in income tax. The result of this, together with the Government's system of industrial confrontation, its determination to cut real wages, its failure to increase payments to those who are in real need such as pensioners with children, and its failure to increase the family allowances in fact will reduce the living standard. This is dealt with in the last part of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. It is for these reasons and the reasons that have been given by my colleagues previously in this debate that I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
Has the Minister appointed a National International Year of the Child Commission, in accordance with the 
United Nations resolution relating to the Year of the Child; if so, who are the members. 
) Have representatives of the Save the Children Fund or UNICEF been appointed to the Commission; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has a recent survey shown that only 7 per cent of telephone inquiries to the Unemployment and Sickness Benefits Section of the Department of Social Security in Melbourne are successful. 
What matters were covered by this survey. 
3 ) Who carried the survey out. 
Can the survey be made available on request. 
Is staff in the Unemployment and Sickness Benefits Section in Melbourne being forced to work at least two nights overtime almost every week to keep up with the workload. 
Has frustration caused by the present shortage of staff resulted in the physical assault of counter staff, and have legal actions not been taken following such assaults. 
Is the high turnover of staff in the Unemployment and Sickness Benefits Section continuing as a result of the workload and conditions in the Melbourne office of the Department. 
8 ) Are these conditions duplicated in other State offices of the Department. 
Was the Norgard Inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service made aware of the present workload and conditions in offices of the Department of Social Security administering unemployment benefit. 
10) Did the Minister say on 21 September 1976 that the Government has exempted the Department of Social Security from strict staff ceilings where this would result in a diminished service to the public; if so, how often have the staff ceilings been revised upwards in the Unemployment and Sickness Benefit Section of the Department in 1 976 and 1977. 
1 1 ) Is an intake of extra trained staff in the Unemployment and Sickness Benefit Section of the Department of Social Security expected to bring conditions to a tolerable level in the near future. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Will she tell the Parliament, and in fact the people of this country, the Government's intentions with regard to the payment of unemployment benefit to workers stood down because of industrial action in Victoria, the payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers during the coming Christmas holidays, whether legislation will be introduced to exclude school leavers, and on what date school leavers will become eligible for unemployment benefit, if that is to be the case? 
I rise, as have other members of the Opposition in both 
Houses, to support the Office of National Assessments Bill 1977. I also say, although it is unnecessary to do so, that I, Uke every other member of the Opposition, welcome the appointment of the new Director-General. I am aware that the new Director-General does not consider it necessary for every  speaker  to praise his appointment.  His  appointment has been praised on behalf of the Opposition and will continue to be so praised. I am sure that he does not take the absence of one speaker's reference to his appointment as being disapproval. I think it is unfortunate that  Senator Sim  took that attitude. I think it is also unfortunate that  Senator Sim  took the attitude that anyone who criticises any part of this Bill is nit-picking and is not in favour of it. One of the functions of this House and the other House is to look at legislation which comes forward. Though we may not oppose legislation we can surely make suggestions and point out what we see are deficiencies without being accused of nitpicking. 
The main criticism I suppose that  Senator Button  made was the criticism that perhaps if we are not careful the assessments boards will be too dominated by officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. That was exactly the criticism made by  Mr David  Hamer in his speech in the other place.  Mr Hamer,  as  Senator Sim  says, has experience in intelligence. I assume  Senator Sim  considers that  Mr Hamer,  who made the same sort of criticism as  Senator Button  in this regard, was also nit-picking. I do not believe that in discussing this sort of legislation we should indulge in that sort of slanging. 
As has been said the BUI establishes the Office of National Assessments under the new DirectorGeneral. It has two boards, the National Assessments Board and the Economic Assessments Board. The aims of the Office are to provide assessments, to provide information, to provide analyses and reports on matters of national intelligence and also to review the activities of Australian agencies with international intelligence functions. In this regard I suggest that a reading of  Mr Justice  Hope's report immediately demonstrates that the Bill is not in complete agreement with his recommendations, even though the Bill does arise out of the report of  Mr Justice  Hope. It is at variance in that it refers only to international intelligence operations. It seems to me that the new Board will have nothing to do with our own local intelligence organisation. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We, like the Government, believe that any attempt to get some coherence into the areas of intelligence in this country and into assessment of our national interests, particularly the national economic interest, is worthy of support. We believe that the Office may not be as successful as it could have been. I believe and hope that it will be an evolutionary step. After observing how the Bill acts in operation future governments may find reason to amend it, as happens with all legislation. We welcome it for a start. The Bill will need changes we believe partly because of some of the vague references it contains and partly because of some of the difficulties which may arise from these references, One can quickly point to such vague references. The Director-General who, as honourable senators will be aware, has already been appointed works under the direction of a Minister but no specific Minister. 
It is obvious from a previous statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  quoted by  Senator Button  and referred to by  Senator Sim,  that it will be a committee of Ministers and a committee of other people. It is to assemble. It is to correlate information on international matters. It is to report to the Ministers and to appropriate persons, whoever they may be. As I said, it is to review the activities of our international intelligence sources which apparently- to me anyhow- leaves the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation free from its field of review. I believe that is contrary to what  Mr Justice  Hope suggested. It will act on requests from a Minister or department for information but will in fact be free of direction as to any conclusions that are reached. I think that this is very important and I hope that it is adhered to. This provision, which is in clause 5 of the Bill, obviously is aimed at providing this independence that we believe it needs. 
I repeat what  Senator Button  said: The National Assessment Board will be dominated by officers from the hierarchy of the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Public Service Board and the Defence Forces who may in fact not be disposed to anything other than a rigid and traditional interpretation of international events. If history is our guide and such appointees are steeped in the traditions of assessments of international events in this country- the sorts of traditional assessments we have had in the last 20 or 30 years and the attitudes of the 1950s and 1960s- I would hope that any additional input into these boards which, I believe, is available under the legislation could be from nondepartmental sources or other departmental sources so that the range of opinions may be a little wider. The Economic Assessment Board is structured similarly to the National Assessment 
Board with an economic emphasis. I believe that  Mr Justice  Hope found no need to split these boards. I must say that I find it difficult in a world when international events and policies are so intertwined and economic effects and policies are so inter- twined with these international events why such a dichotomy of function is necessary. But it may work well and it may be less cumbersome than if we had one board. I believe it has to be watched to ensure that the Director is not, as  Senator Button  said, wandering from board to board trying to sort out just what is purely economic, what is of national importance but apparently not of economic importance- 
-I think it will be his function.  His  functions are pretty broadly established. I think we should go into that aspect at the Committee stage. He will go to both boards. He will have to decide which is which. I do not know who else will decide. Provision is made for differences of opinion and these, one hopes, will occur. I find it difficult to understand why it is necessary in clause 8 (2) to have the word 'significant'. Who assesses what is a significant difference of opinion and what is not a significant difference of opinion? That will undoubtedly be called nit picking. One often wonders why these words are put into Bills. As I said, I do not believe the functions of the new Office are exactly what  Mr Justice  Hope suggested. I believe that the apparent exclusion of ASIO is contrary to what  Mr Justice  Hope suggested. I am not suggesting that we have to accept the views of  Mr Justice  Hope or anyone else who brings a report to this Government. But he also suggested that it should assist in the formulation of policy and plans. That does not seem to follow from the provisions of this Bill. Although I accept that the Government does not have to follow all his recommendations, I believe we deserve an explanation why they were not followed and why the Government thought otherwise. 

 Senator Sim chided  Senator Button  for referring to historical events which we believe- I think every person in this country believes- were affected by the sorts of intelligence services and intelligence assessments that we had in the past. I will refer to them and make no apology for doing so. I think that, if we cannot refer to the past and learn from what we believe are mistakes of the past, I fail to see why we are here. Of course the Bill looks to the future. Of course the Bill develops a new system. I believe that one of the reasons for the existence of the Bill and the reason for the existence of  Mr Justice  Hope's commission of inquiry are what the previous Government saw to be the mistakes and deficiencies in our previous intelligence operations and certainly in our intelligence assessments. I cannot understand  Senator Sim's  objections to  Senator Button's  references of the past, unless they bring him unhappy memories. I believe they were wrong. 
-We may disagree but I hope I am allowed to stand here and say where I disagree on those assessments. 
-Shortly in my speech I will quote an interjection from  Mr Hamer  in the other place which suggests that he may agree with me rather than you. The policies of previous governments which arose- I would hope- after consideration of our intelligence information and the assessment of our intelligence information, led to our refusal over many years to acknowledge the existence of the realities of the People's Republic of China, and, in fact, led to our involvement in the Indo-China war. It led to our obsession with threats from the north which have, I believe, now been shown to be unreasonable. It certainly caused much distress to many families in this country and to families in IndoChina and were certainly at wide variance with most other countries in the Western World with which we were normally associated. One would have hoped that the decisions that were made were made in the light of the intelligence information we were receiving and the assessment of that information. In has speech in the other place,  Mr Lionel  Bowen made reference to the fact that he believed that we could not have been receiving proper intelligence or assessment of intelligence, because we were so obsessed with this threat that we saw, as demonstrated by our refusal to recognise China.  Mr Hamer,  who was an intelligence officer, said: 'That was not our intelligence', which suggests to me that  Mr Hamer  believed it was someone else's intelligence and someone else's assessment of intelligence. 
Our intelligence interests should be and are very different to those of other countries,  Senator Sim.  This fact was recognised by  Mr Justice  Hope in his report and it has been quoted by several people on both sides of Parliament in the debate. At page 45 of his report, he said that Australian intelligence interests do not and cannot coincide with those of other countries. It seemed to us and it seems from the information contained in  Mr Hamer  's interjections that in those days our intelligence assessments and our interests were considered to be exactly the same as those of the United States of America and that we were getting most of our intelligence information on the situation in IndoChina from the United States of America.  Mr Justice  Hope, in paragraph 40 of his report, said:   it would be naive to imagine that overseas governments will always tell us everything they know about a particular matter. 
This, of course, led- as  Senator Button  said- to  Mr McMahon's  embarrassed hurried flight from Devonport in Tasmania where he had just made a speech criticising the Leader of the Opposition of the day,  Mr Whitlam,  for visiting China and he found that  Mr Nixon  was going there and that he had not been informed. It was obvious- it seemed obvious to us- that our interests were considered to be coincident with those of the United States, that their judgments were automatically our judgments and that their information was automatically our information. As  Mr Justice  Hope said, such a belief was naive and false. One could say that it was unfortunate. The development of an Office of National Assessments, as it is called, is important to make sure that in future we take a closer look at the intelligence we receive from all sources and make sure that we get a better result than we have in the past. But I raise the same query as  Senator Button  raised and as  Mr Hamer  raised in the other place. 
If one looks at the make-up of the National Assessments Board and the Economic Assessments Board one has grounds for wondering whether sufficient critical assessment will be carried out by the people appointed to them. I know that the Bill leaves the way open for the appointment of other than the public servants suggested here. I do not wish to be critical of the senior public servants who may be appointed to the boards; nor do I wish to question their motives in the past or in the future. But the fact remains that such appointees inevitably will be people who are steeped in the tradition of 23 years of a conservative and narrow approach to our international affairs, of Cold War attitudes, of the Sinophobia that we had and of the domino theory. As I have said, I am not questioning their motives in those years; I am questioning the reality and the practicality of our international relations approach in those years and the unfortunate effects that resulted. 
We are setting up an Office of National Assessments whose members that we know of will be predominantly from the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Defence and who must, because of their seniority, have played a considerable part in the problems that we got ourselves into in the past. I should hope that there would be on these Boards and in the staff of the Office at least a leavening of independent people whose contributions would not be so steeped in our recent traditions. One remembers what happened in the late 1960s when we did not recognise the People's Republic of China and we had no relationships with the Australian businessmen who were regularly going to Canton to trade with the Chinese. I knew two of those businessman in particular who did that regularly every year. They were certainly not in agreement with the policies of my party, but they could not understand Australia's reluctance to recognise that country. Here we had a large country and a very great country which was certainly being governed by people whose political philosophy we did not believe in but which was making obvious advances to us; yet we chose to ignore its very existence. 
I make one other suggestion about or possibly criticism of the establishment of this Office. I was disquieted to note that the appointment of the staff will be so much under the control of the Public Service Board, whose track record in staff distribution and appointments I suggest is being increasingly questioned on both sides of this chamber and in fact in the Public Service itself. I hope that unnecessary restrictions and unnecessary vetoes will not be placed on the DirectorGeneral and others who attempt to staff this Office with competent people and with people of great knowledge, of whom there are many in this country, who may not be members of the Public Service. The very existence of this Bill is a recognition that all was not well. Part of the recognition that all was not well comes from the mistakes that were made in the past, even if  Senator Sim  does not believe that any mistakes were made in the past. The findings of  Mr Justice  Hope confirm that. 
I am a bit disappointed with  Mr Justice  Hope's suggestion that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should not be included in the ambit of this body. One would hope, as I said previously, that this is in fact an evolutionary step and that a continuing evaluation will be made of the performance of the new Office and the difficulties that the new Office may get into, and that eventually even a committee of this Parliament will be able to perform what I think is its rightful duty and keep an eye on the efficiency, effectiveness and legality of our intelligence operations, as exists in the United States of America and other countries. I hope that a repeat of the sort of problems that we had before and the sort of problems that the United States has had with its intelligence agencies will not occur in this country. I hope that this Office will prevent such difficulties arising. I am sure that all of us in the Parliament will watch this development carefully. I hope that in the future we will have a better opportunity to watch more closely such developments. I support the legislation. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.35)- I do not think that there is very much argument in the Parliament about the necessity to set up an Office of National Assessments on the basis of intelligence gathering. It is inevitable in matters of this type that there will creep into the debate from time to time questions that are of some irrelevancy in the context of the BUI that we are debating. I think it is proper that I should make some observation on what has happened in the past. What has happened in the past has been canvassed but the problems facing Australia in the future have not been canvassed. That is the essence of the whole matter as I see it. I think honourable senators will permit me to make a short observation about what happened in my period of sentence when I could understand what was taking place in terms of government. I shall take 1 939 as the starting point. 
In those days intelligence insofar as the Australian Government was concerned was dependent upon two sources. The Royal Australian Navy provided an intelligence service. Oddly enough the Australian Army not only provided an intelligence service in the context of what was thought to be happening in the other parts of the world but also was responsible for producing, for the information of government, intelligence that related to internal matters in Australia. That is something that was just an accident of history. The simple reason for that was that Australia was not required in the context in which it found itself at that time to provide the government of the day with a reasonable degree of external intelligence information because in those days there was an imperial intelligence gathering system. However, the Army had some responsibilities in the internal intelligence gathering system.  Senator Grimes  seemed to make some observations about internal intelligence, which is certainly not within the ambit of this Bill but which is the subject of a curious piece of history. A distinguished, well-known man from his own State who once sat in this chamber, and whose cover was blown was subsequently given the Lenin Peace Prize.  His  file had been embedded in the Australian Army intelligence system for at least 10 or IS years before he sat in this Parliament. I give that illustration not in any aggressive or malicious way, but merely to indicate that there are always problems with internal intelligence, as there are with external intelligence. 
Is there a difference between intelligence and information? 
We know that  Senator Grimes  is a man of high intelligence. Obviously he is. He would not be here if he were not. But when he gets a body in front of him in the northern Tasmania hospital he wants some information about that body. One cannot apply intelligence without having information.  His  Honour went on to say: 
Intelligence is to some degree processed information. 
That is the operative word. That is the whole essence of this Bill. His Honour went on to say: 
Intelligence is, to some degree, processed information. It is processed information in the sense that a lot of different items of knowledge have to be put together, tested against each other for credibility and a judgment made on balance as to the truth, or at least the greatest degree of probability of the truth, about some particular situation. It is also assessed as relevant to the consumer; otherwise it would not be provided in ' finished ' form. 
I do not think anyone will argue about that. That is the essence of the argument. The National Assessments Board not only will take hold of information but also will assess it and process it. Obviously it will not be the function of the Board to gather the raw material on which the information is put together. That will come from other echelons that are available to government, including the internal intelligence system. 
Does an assessment system work? No matter how strong the will of man is in attempting to produce a filtering system, which is an assessment system, it does not always succeed. There have been interjections this evening, for example, about the Bay of Pigs. That Cuban operation is a very interesting illustration. 
In the Cuban missile crisis an interesting situation developed. Action was taken ultimately not as a result of the assessment by the National Security Council of whether there was or was not a threat to the United States of America, but simply because one of the important elements in the National Security Council 's analysis of what was happening in Cuba related to the then Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, who was not even in the United States of America. He happened to be in the French Riviera. He rejected the advice that his own department had proffered to the National Security Council. He rejected the advice of the National Security Council to President Kennedy, and from where he was he instructed a fly-over of Cuba by a high-flying U2 aircraft to take photographs. It was then discovered that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had missiles in place. The whole filtering process had been undergone. Assessments had been made. The belief had been arrived at that there was no danger, but in fact one man operating on a hunch said: 'It does not matter what the information is. I suspect, as a subjective judgment, that the situation is not as described'. 
I hope that honourable senators will permit me a personal reflection on a similar sort of event that took place within my own knowledge. I was a witness of the situation. In May 1943 or thereabouts General MacArthur had ordered two 
Australian divisions to land, one by sea and one by air, and envelop the area of Lae. That twodivisional effort, plus the operation of all the other ancillary arms, was mounted on the basis that his own Chief of Intelligence, General Willoughby, had stated that the First Australian Corps, with its two divisions, was likely to be confronted by 60,000 Japanese in the area of Lae. I happened to be present when General MacArthur said to one of the Australian divisional commanders: 'Don't worry abour what Willoughby says. There are not 60,000 armed Japanese in Lae. Just push ahead and don't take any notice'. There turned out to be 3,500 Japanese in Lae, not 60,000. Here was a supreme commander overriding all the collated intelligence information that had been built up into a mosaic. 
The National Assessments Board is probably the best we can achieve to advise the government of the day on how to apply the information- the processed information, as  Mr Justice  Hope says- in the interests of our national security. We have problems in the Australian context of, firstly, getting the raw inputs of intelligence in order to form an opinion on what may happen in the context of our national security. Although some observations have been made from time to time- for example, that the armed forces cannot be relied upon to produce accurate intelligence information- it has been my experience during the period in which I have been in Parliament or in the area of government that information provided by the armed forces intelligence services is always far more effective, far more efficient and far more accurate than the information produced by the Department of Foreign Affairs. If we look at the history immediately prior to 1939 that led to the world conflagration, what we discover is that the hard raw intelligence information processed through the armed forces of Great Britain, for example, was far more accurate than the Foreign Office information.  Sir Neville  Henderson, the British Ambassador in Berlin, was constantly pushing forward into areas of government in Great Britain the view that Herr Hitler was a jolly nice fellow and that all the nonsense that was being produced by the armed forces was nothing but warmongering. 
I do not blame the Department of Foreign Affairs in Australia for not producing hardgrained intelligence, for the simple reason that it is a department that has grown and expanded very quickly as a result of the changing circumstances in which Australia has found itself since at least 195 1. There is in the Department a great number of very able younger men who have had no training in assessing intelligence; yet the curiosity is that when an attempt was made some years ago to set up a new structure known as the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the JIO, the Department was powerful enough to insist that the  Chairman  of the Joint Intelligence Organisation should be an officer from the Department of Foreign Affairs. What the reasoning was, I do not know. Now there is to be superimposed on the whole structure another intelligence assessment operation, in this instance headed by a director-general appointed without a Bill going through this Parliament but by the use of the Executive and prerogative power to make such appointments. I am glad to see that honourable senators and honourable members in another place have acknowledged that he is a man of first class ability. What will happen is that unless the hard raw inputs come from the intelligence services that are available now the National Assessments Board will not be worth twopennyworth of beer drips. That is what it amounts to. 
What is the problem in the Australian national context of gathering hard raw material, the inputs-  Senator Grimes  used that jargon word -on which assessments can be made, on which in turn the Government can base its foreign affairs policy? One source of information is diplomatic posts abroad. They have ambassadors and ministers or counsellors. In some places they have Service attaches. In company with  Senator Bishop  and two members of the House of Representatives, I have just been through the Middle East, which is an area of focal conflict. I believe that it is the most dangerous area in the world today, and it is very dangerous for Australia. In that area are assembled the most powerful weapons one can possibly imagine to exist anywhere. There are something like 1 1,500 tanks within about 400 kilometres of Tel Aviv and one can drive from Suez to Cairo and pass nothing but observable missile sites, concreted and embedded in the desert. We have not one single military attache- Navy, Army or .Air Force- in the whole of that area to provide Australia with the hard raw material on which this National Assessments Board would be able to base conceptual assessments. We have to rely on information from other people, so we are back to square one. 

 Senator Grimes and  Senator Button  cast some doubts upon the reliability of the information we obtain. We cannot get it ourselves, without any shadow of doubt, and I say that with the best goodwill in the world to the officers of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs, whom I like and admire. I think they are very capable and I do not deprecate them in any way. But how do they assess the military problems that relate to the Middle East and why does that relate to Australia? Of course it relates to Australia in the most vehement way. What sort of equipment is being used there? What happens to it when it is used in conditions of actual warfare? Without having to ask anyone, I know where we get the information. We have to rely on Great Britain to provide us with information on the value of the equipment, its capacity, its range, how effective it is. No one can provide us directly in Australia with that information. We can also get the information from the Americans, and I assume we could also get it from the Israeli Government, if it wished to divulge such information. 
That is the essential problem mentioned inferentially by  Senator Grimes  and directly by  Senator Button.  If we have a foreign affairs problem in Australia in the context that we have moved from a dependent situation in the past in relation to strategy and intelligence and information and have assumed all the paraphernalia of a sovereign nation responsible for its own protectionand we are responsible for our own protectionno one is going to help us, or I do not see any indication of it. For example, I do not see the Indonesians one day making a statement on an attack by Papua New Guinea on Australia, saying that they will come to our aid. I do not see anything emanating from India, that great and powerful member of the Commonwealth of Nations, which has never given us support on anything. What is happening in India? Can anybody tell me what is happening in India? The Department of Foreign Affairs, having read the previous week's  Economist,  can tell us that  Mrs Ghandi  is likely to be exculpated by the local magistrate but is in some trouble with the High Court. The Department of Foreign Affairs can tell us that and I can tell it too by getting the airmail edition of the  Economist.  That may be ungenerous but it is somewhere near the mark. What is the condition in India? What is the posture in India in relation to a lot of other matters? What is the capacity of its armed forces? It is fortunate that we have military attaches in Delhi who can give us some information. Having been in Bombay, I asked an air attache in New Delhi: I see that the Indian Government has an aircraft carrier in Bombay. Is it any good?' He said 'No', I asked him why it was no good. He said: 'They have sold themselves to Russia for equipment and the Russians do not have any aircraft that can fly on and off an aircraft carrier. ' That was it in a nutshell, and it is an illustration of the benefit of having attaches in various areas. 
Australia spurns attaches. We regard them as brutal and licentious soldiers whose job it is to tread on the necks of Asian people, to go around drinking cocktails. On the other hand, they can produce hard-grained information. My brotherinlaw, who was an attache in Jakarta, once wrote to me and said that one of the most interesting aspects of living where he lived in Jakarta was that they could see  President  Sukarno's cavalcade going to his mistress, who happened to be the wife of the Chief of Air Staff, with an escort of about 22 jeeps and trumpeters. It was very interesting. Obviously he and the Chief of Aix Staff had something in common- a wife shared between them. Of course, it was found that the Chief of Air Staff was the fellow who was producing the armed forces reinforcements to Sukarno when it came to the dreadful problem of October 1965. 1 mention that as an example of how raw information can be obtained, and that is raw if you like. 
Opposition senators- Oh! 
I turn now to another area, which is the one that causes me the greatest disturbance. One can go to any book store at any airport in the world -in Australia if youlike- and buy books on spies. That is the great thing these days. I buy them myself to read because they put me to sleep or keep me awake or keep my concentration away from whether the engine is missing a beat or the pilot is making a muck of it up forward. 
America today is gathered by technological means. 
If we in Australia want to set up and be in possession of a reasonable access to hard grained intelligence, we have to absorb and take some of the intelligence available to us from friendly people. One of the other peculiarities of this is that when nations serve their own national interests, they will only provide information to Australia on the basis of, to put it in its crudest form, a trade-off. We have capacities for special intelligence gathering. I recollect some time in September 1965, about 12 years ago, being asked by the United States Ambassador to the United Nations what was happening in Jakarta. I said to him: 'Well, you have your own source of information,  Mr Goldberg.  Why don't you ring up Washington and ask someone from the CIA to tell you what is happening there'. He said: Goodness gracious me, I do not know. We have hundreds of CIA fellows in Jakarta but they are so busy gathering information that no one can tell what they are gathering. On the other hand, we know that hard grained, quick and accurate information is available from Australia'. I said: Well, I do not know what that is. Get someone to ring up our Ambassador in Washington and he will tell you'. 
I mention that to illustrate to honourable senators that we have a specialty in the gathering of information. In some areas we are quite good at it, either covertly or overtly. But we are not going to get information from other people unless we have something to offer. That is the nature of the game. So whether members of the Opposition ike it or not, the fact of life is that we cannot fulfil a total frame of intelligence in the context of our own national needs, as regards both information and the intelligence that is derived from it, unless we exchange information and subsequently intelligence with people who are friendly to us. 
I add this final observation and comment: I do not quite agree with this Office of National Assessments in the sense of its propositions. I am quite happy to see the National Assessments Board established. I am quite happy to see that its first Director-General should be  Mr Furlonger.  I am happy with the concept. I am happy that the information gathering agencies are not going to come under the Board's direct control. I am not very happy about some of the accompanying information that is being put forward. Certain wise monkeys, namely Ministers, are going to be a sort of supercommittee to sit on top of the Board. I have been in Parliament sufficiently long to know that Ministers of State are very powerful and important people, but in my experience they have not always been wise. I except the right honourable gentleman who is sitting in front of me. I am glad this legislation is getting unanimous support in the Senate, except for the sensitivity that  Senator Keeffe  has displayed. I hope it will go through without too much contumely or aggressiveness. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and it follows statements made by her last night and  Mr Street  this morning. To remove the present confusion will the Minister or the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations issue instructions through the heads of their departments to their officers concerning the eligibility to unemployment benefit of workers stood down in the present industrial dispute in Victoria? If so, will those instructions differ from the present instructions? Will the Minister table the instructions in Parliament? When will the Parliament be made aware of any legislative changes to the Social Services Act affecting such payments? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note ofthe paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
1 ) In regard to the figure of $300m which it is claimed will be required to implement the Myers Report on Unemployment Benefits and Administration, what proportion of this relates to costs of : ( a ) basic allowance; ( b) continuity allowance; (c) spouse allowance; and (d) needs allowance. 
What was the estimated cost of raising permissible earnings to $20 per week. 
What was the estimated cost of setting up additional local offices as recommended by the Minister's Department (Appendix III to the Myers Report, page 123). 
What was the estimated cost of upgraded accommodation and additional staffing recommended. 
What other costing did the Government include in its estimate of S300m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the case of Miss Karen Green, who was refused unemployment benefit in the school holidays last year although she had left school, is before the 
Ombudsman, together with other similar cases? Has the Minister received a report as yet from the Ombudsman? If so, will she table the report? If she has not received it, will she table such a report when she receives it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Has she seen reports today that the Salvation Army in Melbourne has run out of relief money and is forced to close its doors because it has paid out $100,000 in emergency relief during the recent industrial problems in Victoria? Does the Minister agree that this demonstrates the need to pay unemployment benefit to those who are in fact stood down during industrial action, and also to implement the proposal of  Dr Myers, Mr Norgard  and many others that the seven day waiting period for unemployment benefit should be removed? I also ask: What has happened to the Government's plans, announced some 12 months ago, to introduce a system of emergency relief payments through voluntary agencies? When will such a scheme be implemented? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It follows on a question I asked three days ago about the Karen Green case. Is the Minister now aware that Miss Karen Green's case is before the Ombudsman? Has the Minister received a report? If not, when she receives a report will she make her decision in this case public? 
-As one of those who signed the majority report, and ap- parently did soin a state of drunkenness and de- li rium, I hope that the rest of the community, the Parliament and the Press will take a serious look at what is a very serious report. I hope that they, unlike the honourable senator who interjected earlier, at least read the report before they make their judgments. I must admit that that is not the way the honourable senator usually makes his judgments. 
-I believe that the term the honourable senator used in his previous interjection can be better applied to him at the moment. This is an important report and the importance of it lies not only in the section - 
-I seek leave to table the document to which I referred at Question Time. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
How many applications for special benefit in the period 1 January to 30 June 1977 were granted for the 7-day waiting period pending determination of unemployment benefit on evidence of hardship. 
How many applications for special benefit to cover the 7-day waiting period on hardship grounds were received in Victoria between 26 September and 13 October 1977. 
3 ) How many of these applications were granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to two answers the Minister gave to me last week. The first answer was given on 1 8 October when the Minister said: 
I am not aware of whether Karen Green's case specifically is before the Ombudsman. 
The second answer was given on 21 October when the Minister referred to claims that Miss Green and her family had approached members of the Government parties to see that no further personal publicity was given to her case. I now ask: Is it not a fact that some three weeks before 18 October the Ombudsman wrote and informed the Minister, as he was obliged to do under the Act, that he was dealing with the case of Miss Karen Green of 34 Allumba Street, Howrah, Tasmania? Secondly, is it not a fact that Miss Green, although she said that she did not want her name used in demonstrations about which' she knew nothing, has said that she never said to anybody that she did not want her case aired as a public issue because she believes that it is an important public issue, and that no Government member has a right to make such a claim? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Government received the Industries Assistance Report on copper rnining, and the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd in particular? When will the Government table this report in the Senate? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 October 1 977: 
Which sheltered workshops, handicapped training centres, activity centres, residential and holiday accommodation in the La Trobe electorate have been provided with Commonwealth funds under the Handicapped Persons Welfare Program since 1969. 
Where are they located. 
3 ) In what years were they provided with funds. 
Having just come out of the horizontal scrub I ask the Minister for Social Security a question about the welcome but belated announcement that the Government is to introduce a lone father's benefit. Has the Minister had discussions with the State governments whose Budgets already have been introduced with a view to those States introducing a lone father's benefit for the six months until the Commonwealth scheme comes into effect so that all Australian lone fathers will be treated equally? Will the Government consider, in the case of those State governments which cannot or will not introduce a lone father's benefit in this first six months, introducing such a benefit in those States itself? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 November 1977: 
What is the estimated cost for the year 1977-78 of raising the permissible income of unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries to $20 a week before they suffer any loss of benefit. 
I seek some explanation of the Government's intentions on this matter. As I see it, a widow becomes entitled to a widow's pension on the death of her husband, whereas a widower, even if his wife dies in childbirth, under this legislation is not entitled to a supporting parent's benefit for six months. The present unsatisfactory situation is that only two States have benefits available for such people. I do not consider- I am sure the Minister does not- that a special benefit is an adequate substitute for a supporting parent's benefit in view of the manner in which it has to be applied for. It should be borne in mind also that the take-up of this benefit is not expected to be very great, other than in the first couple of months when a disturbance to the family occurs and a person is in great distress. I wonder what the Minister intends to do about that situation. Is it in fact the situation and does she intend to allow it to go on in those States that may or may not introduce such a benefit? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that at only three or four days notice she has called a meeting of the State Ministers for Social Services with herself and others for today and that the meeting is being called without any working papers to be discussed or any real details or agenda? Is this meeting to announce further Federal Government initiatives in the field of social security or child care? Will these announcements have anything to do with the forthcoming general election? 
-The Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1977 has a simple purpose and that is to extend the operation of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act 1974 for another 12 months. The necessity for this Bill arises from the fact that the Government has not yet made a decision on what it is to do about the homeless persons assistance program introduced by the previous Government in 1974. Added to this lack of decision is the fact that the forthcoming election has necessitated the dropping of further consideration of this program until after 10 December. This Bill, therefore, represents a part decision only. The program is being extended only for one year. By introducing this Bill the Government is avoiding making a decision on this important program for another 12 months. It is a matter of great regret to the Opposition that although the program is to be extended no extra money has been provided. This is most unfortunate in view of the circumstances of the people helped by this legislation. 
When the Labor Government introduced the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill in 1974 no Commonwealth assistance had ever been made available for organisations to help the homeless and destitute in the community- those people without secure family backgrounds, without means and frequently without self esteem. For many years governments had provided home units for the aged with some means, hostels for the aged and assistance in nursing homes and hostels generally. But they ignored for many years the very obvious casualties of our society, the destitute people. They are usually male, but not always. They are sometimes alcoholics but, again, it must be emphasised, not always. They frequently have psychological or neurological disorders. They have a high incidence of health problems in general. Simply, they have no h omes. Inevitably, the number of these people increases in times of economic downturn. Many honourable senators will have noted the problems facing the Matthew Talbot Hostel in Sydney which looks after people of this type whose number has increased greatly. The average age of the people it cares for has decreased greatly. The Hostel has been unable to serve the full meals it was able to serve previously. In fact, it has had to resort to serving only soup because of the difficulties created, firstly, by lack of funds and, secondly, by the vast numbers of homeless people who need help. 
This is a very new program. As I have said, it was introduced in 1974. The Labor Government thought it should run for three years initially which would give ample opportunity for evaluation of its effectiveness. It was thought that at the end of three years the Government and the Parliament would be in a better position to decide, for instance, whether refuges for women, which are at present funded under the community health program, should become part of the homeless persons program. The present Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has talked in this way at various Estimates committee hearings and in answers to questions. She has said that a wider program may be needed and that the Homeless Persons Assistance Act may be a suitable vehicle to cover such things as women's shelters generally. The previous Government thought that after three years it would be in a better position to consider whether rehabilitation pursuits should have a higher or lower priority than the provision of shelter and whether the provision of day centres should become an important part of the homeless persons program. We looked forward to the results of this evaluation to see whether the program was on the right track, to see what sort of difficulties it had come up against, to see whether the requirements needed changing and whether the funding in this area was adequate. Before 1974 and, indeed, now, the care of homeless persons has been left largely to religious organisations, particularly the Salvation Army, the St Vincent de Paul Society and the various missions in capital cities. More recently people outside the churches have become interested. I was interested to see the existence of Club 139 in Queensland. It provides a base for homeless men to which they can go in the daytime. It gives them an address and there they can talk and receive counselling as well as have a cup of tea. It provides a social centre at which they can gather. 
The homeless persons assistance program, like all programs of this type, had some difficulties getting off the ground, mainly because of lack of experience in dealing with this problem of homeless men and because society in general has some difficulty in coping with it. These people tend to be rejected and neglected by society, as are criminals and some people who are mentally ill. Society does not like to talk and think about them. There is a very real problem in establishing residential centres for homeless men because no one in the community seems to want these people in their area. Councils have difficultes because of pressure from ratepayers. Ratepayers have difficulties because they fear that the value of their properties will go down. These problems are not insurmountable. The real problems that can arise when society neglects these people was seen recently in Queensland when the police raided a timber mill and found several of these men being exploited by unscrupulous people. 
We believe that the Government, by not coming to a decision after two years in government and three years after the introduction of the program, has walked away from serious consideration of these issues and the problems faced by these people and the organisations which try to help them. The reason given by the Government is that it has not yet reached a decision on the proposals of the Task Force on the Coordination of Health and Welfare, the so-called Bailey Committee. We firmly believe that this Committee was established merely to transfer many welfare functions, including this function, back to the States. The Bailey Task Force suggested the regrouping of Government programs into three broad groups for the purpose, we believe, of unloading onto the States Commonwealth expenditure in this area. The report called it streamlining. It put forward many arguments why State and local governments should be responsible for the aged, the handicapped, children- almost everyone in the communitybut, in fact, its aim essentially was artificially to cut the Government's Budget deficit and transfer that sort of expenditure out of it. Some programs which were considered by Bailey were axed by the present Government but most of them, such as the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act, the aged and disabled persons home program, the children services program and the community health programs are continuing. I believe that, should the Government survive the forthcoming election, it will attempt to send these back to the States, without the guarantees of continuous funding which the States will require. 
The programs I have just mentioned are continuing programs and if the Government decides to follow the Bailey report's recommendation of so-called broad banding and unloading onto the States, it will have to make appropriate legislative arrangements. It is ridiculous that, in the case of the homeless persons assistance program a guarantee of more than one year cannot be given because a decision has not been made about Bailey's recommendations. That suggests a lack of seriousness about the program, and the problems that are faced by these destitute people. That is in marked contrast to the attitude of the Liberal Opposition of 1974, which in fact commended the Government of the day upon its humanitarian legislation, the shadow Minister admitting that it was time after 23 years of neglect by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, that something was done for these people. 
When, in 1974, the program was announced, grants were made available to organisations for existing and improved hostels, day attendance centres, detoxification clinics and work centres. It was proposed to pay half the cost of the social worker, plus subsidies for rent, furnishings and meal allowances. It was expected at that time that the cost of the program would amount to some $20m over 3 years. This was to include some $14.5m of capital expenditure. For all sorts of reasons that were the fault of neither this Government nor the last, that did not happen. Some $8.4m will in fact have been spent by the end of the four-year program, or about half that envisaged initially by the Labor Government. The 12 months extension proposed in this legislation does not mean that new applications can be considered, so in effect the program is at a standstill until the Government makes up its mind what it is going to do. If the Bailey report is not implemented by then, the reaction of the State governments suggests that it will not be. The decision then may, or may not, depend upon whether another election is pending. 
The Minister, in her second reading speech, gave no indication that the Government is considering a longer view of the homeless people and their vulnerability in society. That vulnerability is obviously exposed when we see such cases as the one I referred to earlier, in Brisbane, of men who are exploited under the present system, men who are lured to work in appalling conditions. At least two of the poverty research reports give us some idea of the health and legal disadvantages which are suffered by the homeless, in comparison with the rest of the population. I commend to honourable senators the research report 'Health Studies of Selected Disadvantaged Groups'; also 'Homeless Persons and the Law'. Both paint a very depressing picture of what happens in our society to people such as these. The average age of the homeless persons on whom the reports were done was, in fact, only 46 years, although most of them for medical or other reasons looked very much order. Their life expectancy was very much lower than the average for the community. This is one reason why the average age of the people studied was in fact so low. 
Their level of schooling was much lower than the average, and the proportion of the sample that had never attended school was almost three times as great as that of the male population of New South Wales at the time. One in five had been homeless for more than 10 years; almost one in 10 had been homeless for more than IS years. They had a far higher rate of diagnosed illness than industrial workers of equivalent age in Sydney, where the survey was done. The percentage of epilepsy and venereal diseases was 10 dmes as high as that for the community at large; bronchial and liver diseases were three times as high; tuberculosis was four times as high; mental problems and breakdowns were four dmes as common, and back injuries more than twice as common as for the average industrial worker. 
Their treatment under the law has always been a great problem. One can remember a distinguished Minister for Justice in Queensland saying during a television interview that in Queensland vagrancy was considered a very serious crime; that therefore the police treated it very seriously. The comment was made in regard to the Cedar Bay raid that when one considers the legal disadvantages of these people one realises that it is not only in Queensland that vagrancy is sometimes considered a serious crime- although it is in no other country, and in most States attempts are being made to remove it from the statute books. In the courts of New South Wales, for instance, 87.5 per cent of those convicted for vagrancy all of whom were homeless persons, were imprisoned, whereas only 2 per cent of those convicted for drunken driving, who were potential killers of people, were imprisoned. 
If one quotes from the poverty report on homeless persons and the law one finds the comment that, despite the legal theory that the offence of vagrancy is not intended to penalise poverty, it appears that the police, with relatively few exceptions, arrest for vagrancy only those who are helpless or homeless. This sort of situation arises when we have a group of people in our community who, for whatever reason, are as disadvantaged as are the group of so-called homeless people. They are extremely vulnerable to the diseases which beset us in society, and to injustice under the law. There is strong evidence that the poor health of most of these homeless people has probably disabled them and prevented their being employed; that once they are disabled and unemployed, for whatever reason, once they are living in such conditions, they are prone to the other diseases of society, plus the premature aging process which is so often commented on by investigators of the situation of these people. 
Society cannot ignore them and cannot shove them into skid row, cannery row or anywhere else, merely turning a blind eye to their plight. We believe that the homeless persons assistance program was a good one and should continue after proper evaluation. We believe these evaluations have been done and that the Parliament should see them. There probably should be less emphasis on beds and meals and a greater emphasis on attention to health, legal injustices and the protection of civil liberties, as well as some monitoring of the conditions laid down for dealing with a homeless person's income by the agent or organisation on whom he depends. 
I hope the Minister is taking up the suggestion made some time ago that there should be a more careful scrutiny of the warrantor system under which a warrantor has charge of many social security pensions. I must emphasise that I am not one of those who believe that the warrantor system should be scrapped, but I would say that as an absolute minimum, any person who is to be warrantor for a number of homeless persons, pensioners or beneficiaries generally in the community, particularly those who act for a number, should be scrutinised regularly to ensure that justice is being done to the warrantees. 
We in this Parliament need to know that the Government is in fact giving some thought to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty and the findings of the investigatory committees in the Department on the operations of the Homeless Persons Act at the moment and to know how they have evaluated the program and where they think we should go. I have a very strong belief that such evaluations are vital to any program of this type and that public and parliamentary consideration of such evaluations is essential before we can get sane planning in this area. No-one in this Parliament or in any party needs to be ashamed if there are some failures when certain programs are introduced or if we go off on a wrong track. It is much better to have the programs properly evaluated and to look closely at them and, if we take a wrong turning, to get back on to the right track rather than to continue as we were because of some blind philosophical, ideological or whatever fixation about how things should be done. 
This amendment to the legislation offers an extension for one year and, as such, we do not oppose it. It is certainly better than any extinction of the program. But we believe that three years has been long enough to evaluate the program. We hope that by the time next year's extension has expired this Parliament will be able to consider a fuller and more long term program that we can deal with in the future. 
We are now debating the Social Services Amendment Bill 1977. This Bill, in common with many other social services Bills presented to this Parliament, is in the form of omnibus legislation which covers many facets of the Social Services Act. First, it extends the eligibility for the handicapped child 's allowance to a low-income family with a less severely handicapped child when the care of that child, in the words of the Act, is a severe financial handicap to the family. It also extends the services of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service to persons not previously eligible but who can benefit from rehabilitation, particularly housewives, juniors and some pensioners. It also alters the conditions of eligibility for sickness benefits to bring those benefits into line with unemployment benefits. It does this by reducing the benefit for married men. The Government claims, in classic doublespeak, that it is removing discrimination against married women but, in fact, brings sickness benefits into line with unemployment benefits by altering the benefits available to married men. 
It also makes legal the Government's refusal to pay unemployment benefits to those who leave schools or tertiary institutions- in the latter case before their completion of study- for a period of some six weeks. It facilitates the change to payment in arrears of unemployment benefits by widening the discretion available to the Director-General to decide how those benefits should be paid. Rather belatedly, by an amendment which was introduced in the other House only a few days ago, it provides for a supporting parent's benefit which includes lone fathers. As with all legislation of this type, the Opposition does not oppose some of it- but has some queries about the methods used to introduce certain benefits and changes- and does oppose part of it. Because of this, we have picked out the one aspect in regard to which, we believe, the Government is completely out of step with the rest of the community and experts in the field, and propose both to move an amendment to the second reading motion and, in Committee, to oppose clause 14 which, in fact, withholds for a period of six weeks unemployment benefits to school leavers and some people who leave tertiary institutions. 
We have some general objections to the manner in which the legislation has been introduced and the way in which the Government has gone about amending the Social Services Act. It is perhaps best that I begin by referring to those objections. Our first objection is to the manner in which the lone supporting parent's benefit was, a little over a week ago, introduced in the other place. There was no mention of a supporting parent's or lone father's benefit in that legisation; no mention in the Budget of only a month or two ago of an intention to introduce a lone father's benefit. Because, obviously, of the forthcoming events of 10 December, the Government has now seen fit to introduce an amendment for that purpose. In doing that last Friday the Government acted in haste and, from our reading of the Bill, created difficulties of interpretation which we will further describe in the Committee stage. 
Secondly, the Opposition is concerned about the manner in which many of the changes have been introduced. We firmly believe- and have written into our platform- that as much as possible benefits under the Social Services Act should be clearly defined in the legislation of this country so there can be appeal to an appropriate tribunal- not the Appeals Tribunal now in existence which, admittedly, was set up by a Labor government. We would propose that people know exactly where they stand under the Act; that the discretions of the Director-General or his delegate- which are really the discretions of the Minister and the Government of the dayshould be limited as much as possible. We would suggest that the Bill widens those discretions to such an extent that it is going to make life very difficult for many who receive benefits and remove the possibility of a firm and proper appeal from bureaucratic or governmental decisions, a right which we think is important. 
In the past this did not seem to matter very much, but in the last two years, especially in the case of unemployment benefits paid to people leaving work voluntarily'- and I would put those words in inverted commas- and in the case of school leavers, the Government has used the discretion available to the Director-General and his delegate- in effect the discretion of the Ministerto deprive people of their due entitlement. In the case of school leavers, the Government was plainly acting illegally, as the Opposition pointed out from the time it was announced to the time when it was first applied.  Mr Justice  Steven of the High Court plainly agreed with the Opposition and if one needs further confirmation it lies in section 14 of the Bill: The Government has been forced to introduce legislation to deprive school leavers of unemployment benefits for that six-week period. We believe firmly that the rights of people under the Social Services Act should be written clearly; that there should be as few discretions as possible in the legislation, and that if there is a need for change it should be done by bringing it to the public and submitting it to the vote in this Parliament. 
As I have mentioned, in Committee we will oppose that part of the Bill which deprives school leavers and tertiary students of unemployment benefits for the six-week period, and state clearly why we do so. I will just say now that our basic reason is the one we have announced all along; that such an Act is discriminatory, that it affects adversely low-income earners, those who are least able to look after themselves and who need unemployment benefits; that the better-off, the higher-income earners will not be affected by the loss of the benefit. 
We are also concerned at the Government's failure to note almost all of the recommendations which have come out on unemployment benefits- - namely, in the Myers report, the reports of Professor Henderson, the poverty inquiry and others- that if you abolish payment in advance, replacing it by payment in arrears, in order to have justice you must also abolish the seven-day waiting period which presently applies. The purpose of the amending legislation is to enable the Government to introduce payment in arrears. It has been done by putting in the hands of the Director-General a discretion as to the period after which unemployment benefits will be paid. The Government obviously recognises that it must pay the first benefit after one week. We repeat that the chance that unemployed persons will be paid benefits on day 14 or day 15 after application, as the Minister has claimed, is doubtful. Even so, the period is too long and the Bill will discriminate against the low-income earner, the unskilled worker, the one who first becomes unemployed when there is economic difficulty. They are the people who are most likely to become unemployed under any circumstances. Even in times of economic boom, the people who are most likely to become unemployed are the low income earners. 
In 1972 the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty discovered that in fact some 60 per cent of the unemployed had less than $50 in the bank. These people frequently live from week to week. They are unable for all sorts of reasons to save. They are unable to accumulate reserves in the bank to cany them over even a week's unemployment. It has been demonstrated in the present economic difficulties by the St Vincent de Paul Society in Melbourne, the Salvation Army in Melbourne and similar organisations in other areas that in dmes of economic strife they deal with a vastly increased number of people who are unemployed and who have no savings to carry them over the first week or, in this case, the first fortnight of unemployment. That is why Reverend Martin and Professor Henderson have said that if one is going to introduce a system of payment in arrears, which per se we do not oppose, one must in fact abolish the seven-day waiting period. I shall quote from the report of  Dr Myers,  who was appointed by the Government to conduct an inquiry into unemployment benefit. He said on page 15 of his report in paragraphing: 
It- 
The Committee-  considers that ... a person eligible for benefits has an entitlement for the whole of his period of unemployment. It sees no valid reason for a reduction of the benefit by one week's entitlement. 
In paragraph 4.11.7 on the same page of the report he said: 
It should be noted that the additional cost arising from this recommendation- 
The recommendation that the waiting period be abolished-  would be more than compensated for by the reversion to payment in arrears. Indeed, the two measures fit hand in glove, as fortnightly payment in arrears without abolition of the waiting period would cause hardship in the period before the first cheque was received. 
Professor Henderson said on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news of 25 August 1977: 
I am very disappointed with the latest measures the Government has brought in. What they are doing, as part of their economic policy, mistaken economic policy 1 think, is to create more unemployment at the moment and one would have thought that in those circumstances they would have taken measures to make the lot of the unemployed easier. Instead of that they have ignored two recommendations of successive commissions of inquiry that the waiting period should be abolished because a great many people suffer great hardship when they are unemployed and have no resources to fall back on. We also recommended that the administrative system of paying unemployment benefit be simplified, instead of that they have done the opposite. 
I believe that that is a succinct description of what this legislation does and a succinct description of what the Government has done in the area of unemployment benefit. It is for those reasons that I move the following amendment: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to abolish the seven-day waiting period when introducing payment in arrears for unemployment benefit'. 
-Could we have some clarification of the very real problem which we see in the broad discretions which are given to the Director-General of Social Services and his various officers in the Department of Social Security. I appreciate the explanation which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  gave when summing up in the second reading debate. But we still have vague expressions in proposed new section 105 ja where a handicapped child's allowance is not paid if the family is 'by reason of the provision of that care and attention, subjected to severe financial hardship'. This follows clause 4 which relates to section 105h in which we find another one of these vague expressions: 
by reason of that disability, needs care and attention only marginally less than the care and attention that he would need if he were a severely handicapped child. 
We ask: What sorts of guidelines will the Government lay down for the Director-General or his delegates throughout the Department so that they can make that sort of distinction? What will be marginally less than the care and attention, et cetera? What will be severe financial hardship? 
I would just like to comment that I see greater difficulty in the definition of the word 'marginally' than I do in the financial criteria. I do not believe that we can always expect consistency from my medical colleagues. There already is some difficulty in understanding the various definitions of 'severely handicapped child'. I think we may have trouble with the definition of handicapped child'. I certainly do not deny the necessity for a needs based benefit. 
I would like to ask one more question about proposed new section  105QA  (c) in clause 9. This relates to the cessation of the handicapped child's allowance granted under section  105ja.  The clause provides that the allowance can be terminated by a person's income going up, one would assume, by the failure of a person to comply with the requirements for information about their benefit, or 'for any other reason'. Why is it necessary to have the clause so wide as to include the words ' for any other reason '? 
-The Opposition opposes clause 14. It has been opposed to this principle for almost the last two years. This clause in effect brings into legislation the abolition of eligibility for the unemployment benefit for secondary students for six weeks after they have ceased school. But the clause is wider than that because in almost all cases the period of six weeks begins after the examination for which they sat or would have sat had they completed their school year. The clause will abolish the payment of the unemployment benefit to tertiary students who leave before completing their course unless they can demonstrate to the Director-General that the reason they left was a good and sufficient one, whatever that may be. 
When the Government first arbitrarily decided not to pay the unemployment benefit to school leavers for a period of six weeks from the end of the school year- it was not even done by regulation- the Opposition first of all pointed out that in its view this in fact was not in compliance with the Social Services Act. Members of the Opposition believed that this was the wrong way to go about what the Government wanted to do. We said that if the Government wanted to change the spirit or the letter of the Act in this way it should be done by legislation. It should be debated in the Parliament and publicly. 
I am pleased to note that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  does not believe that  Mr Justice  Stevens in any way upheld that view in his judgment. My only comment on that is that if  Mr Justice  Stevens did not uphold that view I fail to see the necessity for the introduction of this amendment. In fact, in our view and in the view of all commentators on the subject,  Mr Justice  Stevens did uphold that view. 
When people leave school at the end of their secondary education there are, of course, a few who claim and receive the unemployment benefit during their school holidays knowing that they have every intention of going back to school. The Opposition does not support this practice. It has never supported this practice. In fact this practice, quite clearly, is illegal. There are provisions under the social services legislation which require these people to repay the benefits they have received quite contrary to the Act. 
Members of the Opposition have asked questions in the House of Representatives and in this place about how many people have received the unemployment benefit illegally at the end of each year. We have had answers varying from thousands, but never any particular number of thousands, to the honest answer of  Mr Street  in another place that he really did not know. When some people leave school at the end of their secondary education they do in fact have a holiday. They go to the beach with their parents or to wherever else their parents go for their holidays. In those circumstances they are not available for work, they do not comply with the work test or the provisions of the Act, and they are clearly not entitled to the unemployment benefit. No one expects them to be. If one of my children leaves school two years hence he may well go on a holiday, knowing that I am so soft hearted, but he would certainly not be legally entitled to collect unemployment benefit. 
However, there are people in this community who are on very low incomes. There are people who have one, two or three children and who are on award wages as the fitter and turner is on award wages in Tasmania of about $ 1 37 a week. Some people are on less than that. When their children leave school they frequently need to get a job to help support themselves and their families but they cannot get jobs under the present circumstances although they are available for work. To have a better chance of getting work they need to have a small amount of money to help them with their dress and with transport and in the case of rural children, amongst whom the unemployment rate is very high, who may need to travel to the city to have any hope of getting work, they certainly need the $49 or whatever it is to assist them in getting work. We believe that this Bill and this Act when it is amended will discriminate against those people quite severely.The present guidelines for the special benefit, which the Minister holds out as some hope for these people, provide for people to get a special benefit when they have a sudden loss of income- we cannot say that a school leaver is in this category- or when they have a sudden increase in responsibilities. School leavers hardly come under this criteria. 
The Opposition believes, and we have had presented to us no evidence to convince us otherwise, that the number of people who abuse this benefit is small and those who have abused it should be proceeded against. We have no argument With that. However, the Government is introducing legislation to gather up everyone in the net and this affects the less privileged in the community. The legislation goes further than that. Although the applicant may have completed or substantially completed his course of education, apart from sitting for his examination he will be still considered a full-time student until that examination has been held. We need to know what 'substantially completed' means. The six weeks period will not be considered to have started until the end of the examination for which the student would have sat unless he has informed the school or authority in writing that he does not propose to be a candidate at that examination. This is a very severe provision. We believe it is unjust in principle. 
The Opposition also seeks some explanation of what are 'good and sufficient reasons' in the opinion of the Director-General for someone leaving his tertiary course before it has been completed. It seems to me that people basically fail to complete their tertiary courses for two reasons. The first is that they find they cannot cope or have made a mistake or are nor capable of doing it. The second, and the very likely reason, is that they are not able to afford to continue with it, and those who have been to tertiary institutions have seen both of these circumstances occur. It is hard to know what other reasons people have for leaving tertiary institutions. The only other reason I can think of is that they can get a job and earn a lot of money. I fail to see why it is necessary to introduce the provision I have just referred to into clause 14, even if the Government feels it has to introduce a dragnet provision to pick up the kids who may try to cheat on the system and get the unemployment benefit while on school holidays. This practice, I repeat, the Opposition does not support. However, we do not believe that it is a good principle to place in an Act which is meant to assist those who need help. We do not believe that in a time of high unemployment, particularly high youth unemployment, that it is a good provision to introduce.These people have been told all the time they have been at school since the age of five or six years that if they were good and studied hard society would find a place for them and look after them. They now will leave school and find not only that society has no place for them but also that the Government has some suspicion of them for the first six weeks after they leave school and will not help to look after them. The Opposition believes that the social problems of youth unemployment are enough without introducing this sort of restrictive provision. 
Unemployment in rural areas is very high and employment opportunities in rural areas are very low. Frequently children in rural areas have to travel to the cities to have any hope of getting jobs. I would add to that comment that poverty in rural areas is relatively higher than it is in urban areas. Notwithstanding that, we are placing a further burden on low income families in rural areas by introducing a provision such as this. For those reasons we oppose clause 14. 
Nothing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said is likely to change my mind or the Opposition's mind in opposing this clause of the legislation. This clause represents a major change to the Social Services Act to prevent school leavers and students in tertiary education institutions from receiving the unemployment benefit in circumstances in which they leave school or leave that institution before their course is finished. In the past two years no attempt has been made to give reasons for this change, apart from what the Minister calls 'some evidence in the Department indicating that some people are in fact abusing the provisions'. For almost two years we have asked for this sort of assertion to be quantified and the Minister is still unable to quantify it. 
The Minister said earlier in her second reading speech that if the 200,000 school leavers received the unemployment benefit it would cost $40m. That is a nonsensical statement. Not all school leavers seek the unemployment benefit. Many of them get work. Even many of those who do not get work do not seek the unemployment benefit. In fact, they do go on holidays, their parents do look after them and they do not seek the benefit during that time. When we asked for clarification of the good and sufficient reasons for the DirectorGeneral to pay benefits to those people who leave tertiary education courses before their course is completed we found that the reasons were so wide that it was hard to imagine someone not qualifying. 
The reasons were personal ones, such as the death of a parent or moving away from the place where the tertiary institution was established. I assume that the Minister means also that there could be financial reasons for their being no longer able to complete the course. The only other reason one can really think of is that they find they cannot cope with the course, that they have made a mistake in doing the course. Plenty of people do make a mistake in attempting tertiary courses. Surely in those circumstances they will be entitled to some sort of benefit like every other adult in the community, as they would be. 
The Minister still brings up the fact that special benefits will be available in necessitous circumstances. But we do not know what the guidelines for those special benefits will be. The last time we received the guidelines for the payment of special benefits m necessitous circumstances they involved a sudden drop in income, of which no child who leaves school can produce evidence. Under the guidelines as we know them it is going to be very difficult for any school child to receive special benefits. When one considers that a child of a person receiving the unemployment benefit is going to be considered by the Government to be satisfactorily paid if his or her parent receives the children's allowance plus the family allowance, which might add up to about $7 or $8 a week, one can imagine what sort of restrictions are going to be applied before anyone will be eligible for special benefits. 
The Minister has conceded our point that people in rural areas have a high rate of youth unemployment and a low rate of job opportunities. She has added to that and pointed out that there is a high rate of unemployment and a low rate of job opportunities in urban areas. The Minister's words were: 'We realise these people have some difficulties'. What the Opposition is pointing out is that the Government is considerably adding to those difficulties and adding to those difficulties where the people can least cope with those difficulties, namely, in respect of the children of people who are unemployed, the children of low income earners- the poor people in this community. This piece of amending legislation will not affect anyone in this Parliament. We are high income earners. We can afford to look after our kids for six weeks after they leave school. This legislation will not affect the middle income earners in the community because in most cases they can afford to look after their kids when they leave school. It will only affect the people who are poor or the people in this community who are receiving benefits. That is why the Opposition opposes this amendment and will continue to oppose this amendment to the legislation. 
-The Opposition is very interested in this statement although it has some difficulty in knowing just what it is intended to do. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has implied, it may be intended as a social security policy speech although it includes aspects of many other portfolios in which the Government has engaged. There are examples in the statement of things which the Government has done but there are many other things which the Government has done which are deliberately not mentioned. There are some examples of things which the Government may do or wishes to do but they are all couched in such general terms that it is hard to make out just what is going on. In an interview on Channel O in Melbourne on 20 August this year the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in reply to a question said that she had looked at the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty and found that the Government had implemented most of those recommendations. Of course, the statement made at that time was nonsense, grossly dishonest and worthless. I suppose that the statement which was just read by the Minister is not as extravagant as that claim. But I believe that the claims made in this statement, to say the least, are misleading and contain about an equal level of honesty. 
Many errors of commission and omission are contained in this statement. I believe that the general tone of the statement is of one that has been thrown together hurriedly because an election is to be held in about six weeks' time. In fact, on the first page of her statement, the Minister states that some 500 recommendations have been made by the commissioners of the Inquiry into Poverty. Of course, all the reports of the commissioners have not yet been received. The last commissioner, Professor Gates, has not yet put in his report. As an economic adviser to the Government, he would be very busy under the present circumstances. I do not know how many recommendations he is likely to add to the 500-odd that have been made by the other commissioners. In fact, hardly any of the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty have been implemented. In most cases in which recommendations have been implemented, they have been implemented only partially. Also the Government, even this week, as introduced changes to legislation which are quite contrary to the reports and the recommendations of the poverty inquiry and which are quite contrary to the reports and the recommendations of the Myers and Norgard inquiries. Those inquiries also were mentioned in the Minister's statement tonight. The Minister paid some respect in her statement to the knowledge and understanding of the commissioners who were appointed by two successive governments. But it is difficult to find in the report many examples of the respect that she also claims to have for the recommendations of those commissioners. 
I think that we on the Opposition side should comment on those parts of the statement that we were able to look at in the short time that was available to us before it was read in the Parliament tonight and lay to rest some of the claims made in it. The Minister makes great claim, as do all her fellow Ministers, about Professor Henderson's general comment that a reduction in inflation, which is important to the welfare of the poor and the under-privileged in the community, has been brought about by the present Government. The only way in which the Government can gain any sort of satisfaction from that sort of statement is by eliminating the Medibank levy from the inflation rate to try to reduce it below 10 per cent. 
-In fact the inflation rate, as  Senator Messner  would know, has been 13.7 per cent. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-It seems that honourable senators on the Government side have all supped well tonight. The Opposition is concerned about the manner in which the Government has gone about attacking inflation because this has had extremely severe effects on the poor and disadvantaged in the community. 
People such as  Senator Messner, Senator Walters  and  Senator Archer  always find it amusing to laugh when any reference is made about them. 
-The ex-Premier speaks. In fact the Government's policy of contracting economic activity to the point of stagnation not only has made it more difficult for the underprivileged people; it has added to the number of under-privileged people in the community. Even the supporters of the Government would admit that unemployment has risen to an all-time high. 
At the same time, I inform the honourable senator from Billingsgate, the position of unemployed and under-privileged people has been attacked by an increasingly severe series of measures, including more severe work tests and by depriving unemployed people of their benefits for six weeks, actions in direct contrast to the recommendations of the commissioners of the inquiry into poverty. The same action of the Government has affected severely low income earners and young unemployed people in rural areas. These actions of the Government also have been contrary to the recommendations of the Myers inquiry and the Norgard inquiry. What is more important, those actions have been repeatedly publicly attacked by Professor Henderson himself. There is silence from the Government senators. Real incomes in the community have in fact been cut. The first legislative act of this Government was to cut out subsidised health benefits and the subsidised pharmaceutical scheme, which meant in fact - 
-The first legislative act of this Government. So in fact those people who were assisted by those schemes did not receive the benefit of free benefits and suddenly had to pay more than twice the previous amount for pharmaceutical benefits. Over the cackling of onourable senators opposite, I mention that the next item which was spoken about in this statement was the introduction yesterday of the lone fathers' benefit. The manner in which that benefit was introduced, the failure of the Government to consult with the States, the failure of the Government to make provision for the first six months when most lone fathers will need the benefit and the anomalies which will arise from this benefit have been attacked by the Lone Parents Federation, which quite justly objected to being used as a political football. The introduction of the twice yearly pension adjustments, which are indexed to the consumer price index, have been quite correctly noted in the Minister's statement. 
-Certainly the Opposition did not oppose that measure. 
We did not do it that way. We increased pensions by far more than the consumer price index increase when we were in government. We increased pensions from 19 per cent of average weekly earnings to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. But the present Government when in opposition in fact promised to index pensions to the CPI automatically and immediately, not with four months delay. 
As the Minister well knows, the Pensioners Association Inc. has not forgotten this promise. But that Association realises also that pensioners' dependants' allowances have not been increased since the Labor Government increased them in 1975, nor has the supplementary benefit which goes to the poorest of the poor in the community, namely, those people on pensions with very little more income who have to pay rental for their accommodation. Supplementary benefits to the recipients of sickness benefits and the allowances for spouses and children for those people on unemployment benefits, sickness benefits and special benefits under this Government are now taxed for the first time. One understands that that was a proposal of the ex-Premier of South 
Australia, who is now trying to move into yet another House of Parliament. 
The statement then goes on to make certain claims about the introduction of the new family allowance scheme- certainly a worthwhile reform; certainly something which the Opposition did not oppose. But we pointed out at the time of its introduction that if the family allowance were introduced in this way and if tax rebates for children were abolished, if justice was to be maintained, it was essential that that family allowance should be regularly upgraded. Of course, this has not happened. Inflation has run away with the situation. We have produced tables, never questioned in the Parliament, which demonstrate that with the introduction of the Medibank levy and of the family allowance and with the scrapping of the children's rebates which would have been indexed, what has happened is that anyone earning $120 to $200 a week who has more than one child has less disposable income now than he would have had under the old tax scheme. 
The family allowance recommendations of Professor Henderson were only part of a recommendation. They did not even make up the total of one of the recommendations by Professor Henderson. In the same recommendation Professor Henderson recommended that the supporting mothers' benefit should be a Commonwealth responsibility, and that to maintain justice in the community home care help, infant welfare, child care and general accommodation services for women in distress and children in distress should be upgraded and should be funded. We all know what happened to expenditure in this area in the last Budget. 
There was no growth in cash terms and, therefore, a reduction of 14 per cent in real terms. I do not believe that even  Senator Baume  would deny that. The change to the income test from an income means test is another example of a recommendation by Professor Henderson which the Government half introduced. Professor Henderson said that injustice would arise if a capital gains provision was not included in defining private income for pensioner services. Only half the recommendation was introduced, thus causing this injustice. The Minister listed some achievements of the Government in assistance to the unemployed. This is probably the most cynical section of the statement. No government in the history of this country has done more to denigrate the unemployed. In fact, it has conducted an organised campaign to do so. 
The Minister mentioned assistance to relocate workers when they were thrown out of employment. Anyone in this place from Tasmania- I notice that our friend  Senator Archer  has disappeared now we have reached this section of the statement- will realise what happened when 300 people lost their jobs at Mount Lyell last year. Promises were made to an inquiry by a Senate select committee that relocation allowances would be paid to these people. So few relocation allowances were paid that all honourable senators from Tasmania and some from South Australia because that is where some people went to get further jobs were still trying to obtain for these people the relocation allowances they were promised. 
They have not received them. I have at least six examples on my books. One of the honourable senator's colleagues has at least five on his books. There were extraordinary statements that administrative processes recommended by  Dr Myers  and  Mr Norgard  in their inquiries have been introduced to assist the unemployed in claiming unemployment benefit. The facts are these: The Government has acted in a manner that is the reverse of what  Dr Myers, Mr Norgard  and Professor Henderson recommended. The Government has failed to continue the decentralisation program for officers of the Department of Social Security, introduced by Labor and recommended by all those gentlemen. The Government has made the work test by the Commonwealth Employment Service the ultimate work test. It is not allowing the Department of Social Security to overrule it. That is quite contrary to the recommendations of all those gentlemen. 
In introducing the payment in arrears for unemployment benefit the Government has failed to abolish the 7-day waiting period. That is also contrary to the recommendations of Professor Henderson,  Dr Myers, Mr Norgard,  the Reverend Martin and everyone else who has made recommendations in this area. The Government has legislated for a delay in the payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers, also contrary to all these recommendations. Yet the Government says that it has introduced administrative changes to assist the unemployed in receiving their benefit. The Minister then spoke about actively involving the community in assessing and devising welfare delivery schemes. She mentioned the National Consultative Committee on Social Welfare. This Committee is some example of community involvement in the assessment and delivery of welfare schemes! It was appointed by the Minister. It meets in private and reports only to the Minister. Its reports are not made public. Its members are not allowed to show even the minutes of its meetings to the bodies outside to which they belong. Some public involvement! The same goes for the consultative committees in the States and the Women's Welfare Advisory Committee. 
How does this compare with the active community involvement in the Australian Assistance Plan which the Government, despite a firm election promise, effectively torpedoed without any consultation with the States soon after coming into power. The statement goes on into other areas and portfolios, into law and legal aid, the very area in which the Government has not only cut expenditure but has also introduced stringent and more restrictive means tests- to the extent that people, especially those seeking maintenance, have been unable to obtain assistance from Australian Legal Aid. The number of lawyers employed by that office has decreased and we have, in fact, had protests from lawyers, client groups and the community generally about the reduction in legal aid and the inability of people to obtain assistance. 
The Government speaks of increased expenditures for the Community Health Service, but that increase amounts to only Sim more than the 1975-76 allocation, and 15.3 per cent less than the Hospitals and Services Commission estimated was needed to continue existing projects. Moreover, the Government has changed the basis of funding so that the States must now provide 50 per cent of the cost of new projects. The Aboriginal Health Service, which the Minister also mentioned, is in fact to receive funding amounting to only Sim more than it received in 1975-76, which is certainly a decrease in real terms. 
I am unable to go into detail concerning the fields of education which are mentioned, but I note that the Minister was careful in her statement to say that the recommendations of  Dr Fitzgerald  could be only partly implemented, that is, in the Territories in which the Federal Government had direct power to act. We know what has happened in the States, where education funding has been cut, because of the failure of this Government to maintain its supporta subject that is raised every morning at Question Time in this chamber. 
The Poverty Commission's report contains so far some 500 recommendations. Many of these could be implemented without cost, but for the Minister to state that the Government is well on the way to implementing Professor Henderson's guaranteed minimum income scheme, is well on the way to achieving the recommendations of the various poverty commissioners is, I believe, nonsense and quite dishonest. The Minister's statement on television, that the Government had already achieved most of Professor Henderson's recommendations, was outrageous. 
I assume the Government's statement is in fact some sort of pre-election gimmick. It gives no detailed facts or certainties about the future; indeed, it is couched in generalisations- certainly in regard to areas outside social security- from which no one could derive hope. We read it with interest. We get little from it. We expect that, in the future, the underprivileged of this community will also get very little from it. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 November 1977: 
What is the estimated cost for the year 1977-78 of paying unemployment beneficiaries during the first week of their unemployment. 
-I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 13 September 1977, Steve Biko, President of the Black People's Convention died, aged 30, while being held incommunicado for questioning in detention without trial in South Africa; 
That this is the 20th death of a black political prisoner in similar circumstances in South Africa in the last 18 months; and the 44th death of a prisoner while in police custody in recent years; 
That Steve Biko had been held in detention since 22 August; and had previously been held for 101 days without trial; and in addition, was under a Five year house arrest and restriction order; 
That Steve Biko is the acknowledged leader of the black people's resistance to apartheid, racial exploitation and injustice in South Africa, and that in this context his death in the hands of the white police must be regarded with grave suspicion; 
Your petitioners accordingly request the Australian Government to register the strongest protest to the South African Government at the circumstances of Biko 's death. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in each Employment Office area in Tasmania at the end of August 1975, August 1976, and August 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females) (i) under 21 years of age, and (ii) 21 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
Would  Mr Kevin  Dremmel, a Glenroy father of 14 children who earns a net wage of $112 per week, receive $2 1 6 per week with allowances if he were on unemployment benefit. 
Did  Mr Dremmel  apply to the Department of Social Security for special benefit to bridge the gap between his wage and unemployment benefit, rather than to leave his job and become totally dependent on social service benefits. 
Would a grant of special benefit still leave the family approximately 10 per cent below the Henderson poverty line, estimated at $240.80 per week for this family. 
Did the Department of Social Security refuse the application for special benefit. 
Was an appeal against this decision upheld by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in accordance with section 124 (c) of the Social Services Act 1947, which provides that a person may be paid special benefit if through*. . . domestic circumstances, or for any other reason, that person is unable to earn a sufficient livelihood for himself and his dependants . . .'. 
Did the Director-General disallow the recommendation of the Social Security Appeals Tribunal that special benefit should be paid to  Mr Dremmel;  if so, what were the grounds for his decision. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1) Does the Government propose to implement the second main report of the Henderson Poverty Inquiry relating to Law and Poverty. 
What discussions have taken place with (a) the Department of Social Security; and (b) the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs concerning the implementation of the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1) How many persons were registered as unemployed in each Employment Office area in Tasmania at the end of September 1975, September 1976 and September 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females; (i) under 21 years of age, and (ii) 21 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
How many applications for unemployment benefit during the 1976-77 school vacation were received in each regional office of the Department of Social Security. 
How many decisions against payment were made in each regional office. 
How many appeals against these decisions were lodged in each regional office. 
How many applications for special benefit were made in each office from claimants who were refused unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1 ) On what dates in 1 976 and 1 977 did the Minister write to the Prime Minister requesting exemption from staff ceilings and the provision of additional staff. 
What numbers and classifications were requested. 
What approvals were given by the Prime Minister and on what dates. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1) On what dates in 1976 and 1977 did the Minister submit to the Public Service Board requests for exemption from staff ceilings and the provision of additional staff. 
What numbers and classifications were requested. 
What numbers and classifications were agreed to. 
On what dates was information concerning numbers and classifications supplied by the Department to the Board. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1977: 
How many school leavers leaving school in 1976 to enter the workforce were paid unemployment benefit during the period of the school vacation. 
How many were paid special benefit for the same period. 
Does the Minister for Social Security recall in November last giving a guarantee to the Senate that the payment of dependants ' allowances and family allowances would continue for school leavers until they were eligible for the unemployment benefit, a guarantee that was given in justification of the Government's change in the legislation? Were these payments in fact continued, and if not, why not? 
I thought for a moment that I was going to be counted out. In speaking to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply I first of all congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech last night and welcome her to the chamber as other speakers have done. We realise that her stay will be short. I thought her speech last night succinct and to the point, bi-lateral in its treatment of both sides of the chamber but done in a very gentle way. It also succeeded in doing something very unusual by provoking my Tasmanian colleague,  Senator Rae,  into a mild display of righteous indignation because he felt that  Senator Haines  had breached the convention that maiden speeches should be nonprovocative. I must say that after listening to her speech last night and reading it again today I certainly do not think it particularly provocative and cannot understand what upset  Senator Rae  to such an extent. Perhaps it was a demonstration of the phenomenon we see so often that conservative people consider trivial conventions more important than some of the more serious conventions and tend to wax more eloquent when they think that the trivial conventions of the Senate are breached than when some of the more serious conventions are breached. I cannot remember many senators from the other side of the chamber getting up and creating the fuss that  Senator Rae  did last night when Premiers Lewis and Bjelke-Petersen breached what most of us considered to be very serious conventions and enabled the events of November 1975 to take place. I am sorry that  Senator Haines'  stay will be so short but we hope that it will be a pleasant one. 

 Senator Rae's speech followed that of  Senator James  McClelland who also provoked some criticism from  Senator Rae. Senator James  McClelland criticised rather trenchantly the appointment of  Sir John  Kerr as Australian ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation and pointed out clearly the dangerous precedent that has been set. He clearly set out the sequence of events which led up to that appointment and the possible consequences when persons in vice regal office, which we know now has considerable power in this country, are appointed to a sinecure after they leave that vice regal office.  Senator James  McClelland 's speech provoked a considerable response from  Senator Rae  and other speakers from the Government side who preceded him. But nowhere in his speech did  Senator Rae  answer the criticism made by  Senator James  McClelland. Nowhere in his speech did  Senator Rae  attempt to justify the appointment of  Sir John  Kerr to the office of Ambassador to UNESCO. In fact the only two people to my knowledge who have tried to justify that appointment are the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Senator Withers,  who represents the Prime Minister in this place.  Senator James  McClelland made only passing reference to the events of November 1975. He spent considerable time speaking about the very real dangers of what has happened and what can happen as a result of this appointment.  Senator Rae  and others have not yet attempted to answer those criticisms. I assume by his silence, and by the silence of others, that he too has expressed his disapproval of this appointment to UNESCO. 

 Senator Rae also spoke at length on the role of the Senate. It is a subject about which he feels very strongly and genuinely and about which he speaks very frequently inside and outside this place. He has considered most seriously the problems of the Senate and the role of the Senate. Many of us have discussed this matter with him inside and outside this chamber. He has a very genuinely held concept of the Senate as a House of review, as a States House and, I believe, as a non-party House. I differ from  Senator 
Rae in that I believe this view is divorced completely from reality. I believe that, before we start to change this House and before we start to make this House a more relevant House as  Senator Rae  does, we have to accept that it is, and it has been in fact almost since the time it was formed, a party House.  Senator Rae  and I represent parties in this House. As this House has the right to refuse Supply, defeat a government and force an election in the other place without going to an election itself, it is a very powerful House as  Senator Rae  and others have said. It is for this reason that this House is dominated by parties. This is recognised by the Liberal Party.  (Quorum formed).  Before a quorum was called I was speaking of  Senator Rae's  concept of what this place should be and the difficulties I can see in trying to achieve that concept. I was pointing out that in fact this place is a parties House. Senators are elected by parties. I also pointed out that the Liberal Party recognises that the Senate is a parties House. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate is not elected by Senators- he is appointed by the leader of the Executive, by the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. He is referred to in this place by senators opposite as 'my leader'. I am merely making the point that we must be realistic. 
I am coming to that. But we must be realistic and we must in fact recognise that the Senate is a parties House and the behaviour, I suggest, of honourable senators from both side of the House when in government, including  Senator Rae,  is dominated by the Executive. Certainly a few will occasionally cross the floor but this happens, I suggest, always when there is no danger that the government will be in any trouble. At other times- very rarelysome will make angry noises about something the Executive is doing but in fact, when the crunch comes, their behaviour changes. There have been many examples of this. An excellent example, I would suggest, occurred in 1975 when two Bills were introduced by the then Labor Government. One was a Bill to introduce a Medibank levy or a national health insurance levy as it was called at the time. The second Bill- A National Health Insurance Amendment Bill- was designed to introduce controls over voluntary health agencies in this country. Both of these Bills were vigorously opposed in 1975 by every honourable senator who was a member of the then Opposition in this chamber that was acting allegedly as a House of review. The Bills in fact were quoted by  Sir John  Kerr at the time as being one of the reasons for a double dissolution. In 1976, when safely in power, legislation was presented by the then coalition Government to introduce a Medibank levy. The coalition Government introduced the same legislation as the Australian Labor Party had put forward a year before. The legislation was designed to control and to obtain better information from the voluntary health funds. These two pieces of legislation were accepted without demur from the same senators who had vigorously opposed them some 12 months before. 
I submit that if we are to retain a Senate- and obviously we will retain a Senate- and if that Senate is to become the House of review that  Senator Rae  wants to talk about, the right to refuse Supply will in fact have to go. This right does not exist in other Houses of review outside Australia. I also suggest that members of the Executive should not be in this place. I know that is the view of many honourable senators opposite. But as this will not happen, as  Senator Rae  and his ilk are firmly committed to the concept of a Senate which can at any time throw out the lower House even though the Senate cannot in any way be considered representative of the people in the same way as the other House is and even though many members of that Senate will have been elected many years before the election of whatever government is in office, I believe the Senate will remain the rubber stamp it is. It will be ignored by the press and populace except at election time. 
Certainly we have a committee system in this place that I find works very successfully. Certainly committee members frequently vote on non-party lines. But just as frequently members vote and committees are divided on party lines. But the reality is that when the crunch comes, when it gets back to power in this country and politics is about power- the Senate behaves like a rubber stamp except on a very few occasions. It is a sad fact, perhaps, but it is a fact of political life. 
I have pointed out that while the Senate has the power to refuse supply and while it has the power to throw out the lower House at any old time the fact of life will remain that that is the position. I submit that merely changing other things will not make any difference unless the Senate loses that right. 

 Senator Rae made some very interesting comments about the Senate committee system in particular and the parliamentary committee system in general and about the fact that the new committees have experienced extraordinary difficulty in obtaining information from the Public Service of this country and sometimes from the Executive of this country when those committees need that information for the Parliament itself. That is a problem that we have all faced. We have all faced it with Estimates committees. One of the reasons why Estimates committees sometimes groan on into the night and for day after day is the difficulty of getting out of those who are present information that should be freely available to every member of this House, every member of this Parliament and every member of the public of this country. Sometimes Senate committees become like the war of attrition with a battle between the public servants and the parliamentarians trying to wear each other down. " That is a very real problem. Anybody who has served on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, as I have, will realise that it can become a very real problem there. Certainly we must get over this problem. We must do so by allowing or enabling the Auditor-General, for instance, to get information more easily than he can, to report to the Parliament in more detail than he does at times and to have less of a scatter gun approach across the affairs of the various departments. It is a very real problem and it will remain a very real problem in the future. One hopes that the new committees will be able to do something about it, but I believe that a much more basic reformation is going to be needed in this country for that to happen. 

 Senator Button, Senator James McClelland and, I was surprised to note,  Senator Rae  commented in their speeches on the increasing cynicism of the electorate towards parliament itself as an institution- in particular, towards politicians. They have rightly stated that this cynicism and this suspicion of parliament and parliamentarians is a danger to the institution itself and to democracy itself.  Senator James  McClelland pointed out how the appointment of the former Governor-General as Ambassador to UNESCO will add to this cynicism.  Senator Button  spoke of Premier Bjelke-Petersen's discrimination in the Public Service of Queensland against those who would dare to stand as Australian Labor Party candidates and of how the present Executive itself treats parliament with contempt by appointing an outside body to review the pecuniary interests of parliamentarians when a parliamentary committee from both Houses of Parliament and both sides of politics, including present Ministers, has reported with a unanimous decision on the subject. 
The cynicism is also heightened by other happenings in this Parliament involving parliamentarians. What must be the view of the thousands of potential home owners in this country who can raise neither finance nor a deposit to purchase a home of their own when they learn that a senior parliamentarian can obtain finance beyond the dreams of most people seeking homes and can obtain that finance at a discounted rate of interest and with delayed repayments of the loan to the company that gave it? What will be the view of the unemployed in this country who are visited by inspectors to see whether they are entitled to the $36 or $49 a week that they are getting when they learn that a senior Minister's family uses tax avoidance schemes, however legal they are, to avoid contributions to the public revenue? Why should they not be cynical when the Premier of Queensland campaigns on the basis that if the people of an electorate do not vote for his party that electorate will get nothing and if they do vote for it he will look after that electorate? 
I believe that there is even further danger. I have experienced it and I have spoken about it in this Parliament before. There are people- not many yet, but an increasing number- who see parliament as a place that has no concern for their hopes or aspirations and who, whatever attempts are made to introduce reform to overcome what they see as their disadvantages or difficulties, feel that the system is rigged against them either by the nature of parliament itself, by the electoral system or by the fact that the decisions of parliament itself are so often able to be overcome or got around by those in power outside the parliament. I believe that this is a danger to the institution itself because the people who find themselves in this position too frequently will seek to achieve their aims by actions outside the parliament. They may succumb to the temptation to indulge in violent action outside the parliament. As one who believes in parliamentary democracy, I regret that. I fear that if we continue as we are going at the moment we will have great difficulties in the future. 
I wish also to speak briefly about the unemployment problem and some of the actions that have been taken in the last few years in dealing with the unemployed. I believe that I have to answer some of the remarks that were made earlier in this debate about me, about the Opposition and about some of the people in this community who are concerned about unemployment. The Governor-General's Speech from the Throne mentioned unemployment and inflation. In fact his Speech, on behalf of the Prime Minister, said that the defeating of inflation and unemployment was in fact the first priority of the Government. He also said that the Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment and that the Government would continue to give its highest priority to defeating inflation. It would seem to the Opposition- certainly to me- that the Prime Minister and his advisers do not believe that and that the aim of government policy in fact has been to defeat inflation by inducing recession and consequent unemployment. One occasionally hears a supporter of the Government come clean on this issue. I can remember a Tasmanian member of the House of Representatives saying that if it was necessary to increase the unemployment figure to beyond 400,000 to defeat inflation that is the way it would have to be. One wonders whether he was being prophetic at the time, which was in the middle of last year. 
Much has been said by various Ministers in the past few years about unemployment and the treatment of the unemployed. We all remember  Mr Lynch  predicting with great confidence in his 1976 Budget that there would be a fall in the level of unemployment by March 1 977. Almost exactly 12 months ago when the unemployment figure was 354,000  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch  and  Mr Street  assured us that the unemployment situation had reached its peak and that it would proceed to fall in the next month. Twelve months hence the unemployment figure has reached 445,000. There has been a quite ominous increase. There has been an especially ominous increase since December. We have the same assurances being given now that it has reached its peak and is going to come down, even though 75 per cent of the increase since December has involved adult workers.  Mr Fraser  has often had things to say about unemployment. In 1974 when he was the shadow Minister for Labour he had certain things to say in a Press statement which was issued in August 1974 following the release of the unemployment figures at that time. Those unemployment figures had increased by 22,000 in one month, which was a quite serious increase.  Mr Fraser  said: 
The increase in seasonally adjusted terms in unemployed of 22,000 in one month is complete evidence of the failure of the Government's economic policies. The tragedy of unemployment is the personal hardship involved; indeed the complete destruction of a family's living standards as jobs become harder to get . . . the Government should consider closely the situation that as unemployment rises so too should unemployment benefits increase. This proposal rests on the principle that as it becomes harder to get work so too should the compensation for those out of work be increased. I believe that principle to be valid and governments need to make a concerted effort so that unemployment does not remain the complete and absolute disaster that it has so often been in the past. 
The principle involved in this is all the more valid when unemployment as it is now, is a result of the Government's mishandling ofthe Australian economy. 
That was in August 1974, but in DecemberJanuary, the last period for which figures are available, unemployment rose by 40,000. From November to January the increase was 96,000, from 349,000 to 445,000. On  Mr Fraser's  criterion of 1974, we should be increasing unemployment benefit to avoid what he then called the complete and absolute disaster that it is'. There has been no increase in unemployment benefit and no increase in compassion in the treatment of the unemployed. In fact we are seeing a Government effort to reduce by investigatory means, the number of people receiving unemployment benefits, and I will come to that later. I believe it is a sad fact of history that whenever economic difficulties occur, whenever recession or inflation or recession and inflation disturb our comfortable existence, scapegoats are sought. In more primitive times I suppose gods and spirits were blamed for the difficulties of the community. 
There have been witches too, I believe. In recent times racial and religious groups have been blamed, as occurred in Russia earlier this century and in Germany not so long ago. In the Depression of the early 1 930s, if one reads the commentaries and the history of that period, including the biography of  Mrs Margaret  Thatcher, so often the chief scapegoats for the economic difficulties were the unemployed, the victims of those economic difficulties. During the Depression, when unemployment exceeded 30 per cent and sometimes 40 per cent, people said what they are saying now: 'These people don't want to work. There are plenty of jobs available. They are slackers. They are causing difficulties in the community'. Those sorts of statements are very common now, and I agree with  Senator Rae  that that view is commonly held in the community as a result of the continuous campaign which has gone on since before November 1975 to denigrate the unemployed in the community. 
This is a very real problem. I agree with  Senator Rae  that we need an analysis of the problems of unemployment. We need an analysis of the sorts of economic difficulties that are causing unemployment. We need an analysis of the sorts of people who are unemployed. At the moment we must rely on the figures. They show 445,000 people unemployed and only 28,500 job vacancies. It is nonsense to say to those people who are unemployed that there are plenty of jobs around and they should go out and get them.  Senator Rae  referred to the commonly suggested proposal that people should be given work in exchange for unemployment benefits, but many governments, of different persuasions have looked at that suggestion. It has considerable difficulties. Perhaps some of the difficulties are greater than governments have thought, but we must look at the proposal. We should not be deprecating the unemployed, saying that our problems are due to the unemployed, and distracting from the fact that our economic system is not supplying jobs. In the last two years legislation and regulations have been changed to limit the payment of unemployment benefit in the community. The number of categories of people who can receive that benefit has been cut down. The regulations have been changed repeatedly to cover things such as a person's dress and attitude and promptness in returning forms, and whether he has voluntarily left his job or not. All these things have been introduced to make it more difficult for people to obtain unemployment benefit. There was a regulation change and then a legislation change to deprive school leavers of unemployment benefit for six weeks after they leave school. 
No matter what figures one considers, whether they are the number of registered unemployed or the number of people on unemployment benefit, whether the figures come from the Commonwealth Employment Service or from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, they all show an increase, and the increase has been comparable in all the figures. I do not believe that  Senator Rae  was referring to this when he spoke about the education system, but teachers have been reprimanded for telling school leavers who are facing unemployment- we have an extraordinary unemployment situation with school leavers- how to handle the social security system and how to lodge unemployment benefit applications. These teachers were said to be cultivating dependency. There are even people who have denied that there is a problem. The present Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said in February 1977, when the Commonwealth Employment Service figures showed 346,000 unemployed and the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures showed 334,000 unemployed, that unemployment is largely a myth. During all this time the number of people who are unemployed has been from 16 to 20 times greater than the number of registered job vacancies. That is the present position. It is said that attempts are now being made to fiddle with the figures, to scrub the CES figures because the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures are a little lower. But none of the figures are precise. We should consider the married women who were in the work force and have now gone out of it but who would work and who would register for employment if work were available. 
We have heard in the address from the throne and we have seen in government statements the comment that unemployment will go when inflation goes and that we should not worry about it. If that is the Government's belief, surely the Government should be concerned about the problems of the unemployed as people, about the very real and continuing social problems to which  Senator Rae  adverted when he spoke about the possibilities of long term unemployment in the community. In recent weeks some criticism has been directed at members of the Opposition and other people in the community who have pointed out that the Department of Social Security has started to investigate on a mass scale those on unemployment benefit. We were critical of the tactics that were being used and we were accused of causing anxiety, of not being accurate in what we said. I believe that I must present the case for myself and the Opposition and, if I am not being too presumptuous, for other people who joined in expressing concern at the situation. The Opposition is and always has been opposed to people receiving unemployment benefit fraudulently or illegally. The law as it stands provides penalties for such behaviour and we of the Opposition believe that this law should be carried out. We have sought repeatedly from Government spokesmen evidence of how many people are in receipt of unemployment benefit fraudulently, illegally - 
I am coming to that, Minister. Do not get too anxious. We have repeatedly sought such information. We have not been able to get specific information but the Minister may remember appearing with me during the election campaign on a program called  The Policy Makers.  She said on that program that she had no evidence that abuse of unemployment benefit was any higher than the abuse of any other benefit or pension. I merely say to that: Why then is the concentration on unemployment benefit alone now the way it is? We have in this country- this has been confirmed by the Director General,  Mr Lanigan-  some 250 investigation officers who have been transferred from other duties to confine their duties to the investigation of people in receipt of unemployment benefit. These duties consist of investigating claims, assisting beneficiaries to cope with the system, and assisting appeals tribunals to deal with the appeals. That is a very important function because 60 per cent of people who are deprived of unemployment benefit under the system as it normally functions have their benefits restored on appeal. 
There was no public announcement that this situation had developed. The Director-General attempted to say that he had ordered this procedure to be implemented and he issued a statement to that effect.  Senator Walters, Senator Guilfoyle  and others said that this was a normal routine procedure. I have two comments to make in that regard. Firstly, if the Director-General did in fact order the 250 investigation officers to do nothing but concentrate on the unemployedwhich I believe is a considerable step to takeand if he did that off his own bat without consulting the Government, I would suggest that the Government should watch that DirectorGeneral.  Senator Walters  and other honourable senators remarked that this was a routine answer. It was answered very quickly by irate officers of the Department of Social Security who apparently bombarded the Australian Broadcasting Commission after this statement was made. I believe- I ask the Minister to deny it if she likes and to give evidence in support of her denial- that there has never been an Australiawide effort like this one, an Australia-wide effort where the whole force of investigation officers has been called out to investigate the unemployed. 
Certainly, small scale investigations and small scale stepping up of investigations have been made, often with good reason.  Senator Wheeldon  admits, and I admit, that this was done when the Labor Government was in power. In one area he found 24 per cent of the people who were receiving unemployment benefit were ineligible for that benefit.  Senator Wheeldon  also pointed out that there were all sorts of reasons for that. There were those people who were receiving the benefit fraudulently; there were those who were receiving it who had notified the Department that they should not be receiving it and, because of departmental snafus, the Department had not stopped the benefit. 
Perhaps the Department's files had been lost.  Senator Wheeldon  did not suggest that 24 per cent of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit were frauds. If there are 24 per cent who are frauds I would like to see evidence of that. We have been calling for this evidence for two years.  Mr Street  said that there were many.  Senator Walters  said that there were thousands and the Minister told me that she had no evidence that there was greater abuse in the unemployment benefit area than in any other area. I repeat that we do not believe that people should be receiving public moneys illegally or wrongly. We have never suggested that. 
Sitting suspended from 1.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was talking about the present campaign by the Department of Social Security and the Government to detect people who are illegally receiving the unemployment benefit. I was talking about the misgivings which I and other people in the community have about such tactics. The concern by those of us who are critical of this sort of tactic arises out of several facts. 
Firstly, we must bear in mind that, at the moment, according to the Commonwealth Employment Service figures, the unemployment level exceeds 445,000 people and there are only about 28,000 job vacancies. There is an enormous gap between the number of registered unemployed and the number of registered job vacancies. The average time that people are now receiving the unemployment benefit is approximately 5 months, an increase of something like 2 months in 2 years. For many people the unemployment benefit is no longer an emergency payment to tide them over in the short term. In August 1 977, 55.4 per cent of the unemployed were less than 25 years of age. At the same time the percentage of unemployment benefit beneficiaries who were born overseas was 22.5 per cent, which is in excess of the percentage which they represent of the population. 
I think we all realise that we have a very serious situation. People other than the Opposition members are saying this. People other than those in voluntary welfare agencies are saying this. I was surprised to hear  Mr George  Polites of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures saying this. I believe and many people believe that the situation is not one in which tactics of this type should be used, nor do we believe that tactics like this can be effective. In the past we have had experience of this sort of tactic being used in small areas or in widespread areas across the country. 
We know that people receiving the unemployment benefit who have had their benefit ceased by the Department are successful in their appeals against that decision in about 60 per cent of the cases. We know that whenever there is an increase in the stringency of the regulations or an increase in crackdowns the number of people who come to voluntary agencies seeking assistance increases dramatically. We know that since the introduction of the new system of payments the average duration between application for and receipt of the unemployment benefit is something like 28 days. We believe that at times like the present when the level of unemployment is very high and when the number of job vacancies is very low this sort of tactic is quite inappropriate and that we really should be trying to help the unemployed. We believe that the inspection officers would be better employed in assisting those unemployed people who need assistance. As I have said before, some people work the system; some people rip off the system. But I believe that in general those people who do this successfully do so because they know the system. They know the complexities of the system, what they can get away with and how to avoid detection. The people who cannot cope with the system or have difficulty coping with it- migrants, the illiterate or the relatively illiterate, some of the inexperienced school leavers and people who for all sorts of reasons have great difficulty in coping with our system of social security- are in danger in such an investigation. Already the results of surveys in the western suburbs of Sydney have suggested that something like 22 per cent of the unemployed youth are not receiving the unemployment benefit to which they are entitled because they do not know how to go about applying for it or they have just given up trying because, in their terms, 'it is one big hassle '. 
The system we have and have had for many years has grown up in an ad hoc way. I believe that is unnecessarily complicated. I believe, as many people do, that we need to have a very good look at the whole system of social security, particularly at the system of income security. As  Senator Rae  said, it is important that we analyse the problems facing us with unemploymentwhy people are unemployed; whether unemployment is in fact structural; how much it is regional; how much of the unemployment is due to the education system- so that we have some basis on which to plan. 

 Senator Rae told stories which we have all heard, of people who have jobs available but cannot fill them, of people who are supposed to be ripping off the system. But when individual cases are investigated they are frequently found to be merely anecdotal stories and are unable to be confirmed. In Launceston in Tasmania, the city where Senate Rae and I live, we recently had a front page story in our local newspaper in which 2 farmers, both raspberry growers, bitterly complained that they could not get any workers, that people would not come and work and that people were idle and would not work to pick the raspberries. The next day those 2 farmers were flooded with some hundreds of workers. Neither farmer had applied to the Commonwealth Employment Service for pickers; neither had gone out of his immediate little town to look for people to pick his crops. In this situation there were literally hundreds of people looking for work and willing to work. 
We have a great communication problem in some places where work might be available but the Commonwealth Employment Service system and the employment system does not enable people who are looking for work to go to work. We believe that the answer to this problem does not lie in increasing the difficulties of people who might need the unemployment benefit. We believe that the answer to the problem does not lie in making moral judgments about whether people are shirkers, whether they are willing to work or unwilling to work. We believe that the problem will not be solved by the sort of investigation in which the Department of Social Security is presently engaged. We believe that first of all the Government must take positive action to do something about the increasing level of employment. It is a cliche or a truism that the best way to reduce unemployment is to give people jobs. But that is a fact which has been recognised in every comparable overseas country. The real problems of this high proportion of youth unemployment which we have will leave a social scar for many years to come unless we do something about it and take positive economic action. 
Most of the large private construction industries rely to a large extent on government contracts and the flow on from their contracts to other industries has a great bearing on employment in the manufacturing and building industries. Concomitant with the decrease in government expenditure in this area, in the past 2 years we have lost 100,000 jobs in the manufacturing and construction industries. The Opposition certainly believes that by careful expenditure in certain areas we can at least boost employment in this vital area and so have a multiplier effect throughout the community. We believe that far more can be done in apprenticeship schemes. But 
I certainly agree with those people who say that before we can do something effective in the long term we must look hard at our economic system and at how it works and we must look hard and investigate what is really going on. 
It is no good any honourable senators wandering into this chamber and presenting anecdotal stories about people who have work available but cannot find workers; it is no good any honourable senator coming into this chamber and complaining that the beaches are littered with people receiving the unemployment benefit but who do not want to work, without producing figures and evidence. In the past two years we have sought figures and evidence in this Parliament but have not received them. As I said, we are facing a serious problem and the problem will not go away by using the tactic of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and saying that unemployment is a myth. Unemployment will not go away simply by our not talking about it. The Opposition and I will not be deterred from drawing attention to the problems in this community by the people who say: 'You should not talk about that, you will cause insecurity in the community and insecurity amongst the unemployed'. We must talk about it. We must try to look at the problem and we must look at possible solutions. When we take action we must be careful that the action we are taking is effective. We must evaluate the programs which we introduce. No one is suggesting it is easy. We are suggesting that we have a serious problem. We must recognise that. The problem cannot be left to get better by itself as inflation improves or as some mystical government monetary policy is carried out. It needs positive action and it will need positive action in the future. That action may need to be a broad attack. It may need to be job creation, plus reform of the education system, plus reform of our social security system. We will not get anywhere by taking the attitude that governments cannot do anything about the situation, that the only role of government is to indulge in foreign affairs and to pay a few pensions while letting the rest of the community look after itself. That sort of economic system does not exist anywhere and has not existed for a couple of hundred years. 
So we find little in the Speech by the Governor-General to indicate just what will happen in the community. We find lots of words like: To revitalise our Federal system by co-operating with State and local governments . . .'. We heard fine rhetoric about civil liberties and civil rights. We find general statements about new initiatives. But we really have no indication of what the Government will do except in the first part of the Speech where the Government implies that it will do what it has been doing for the last two years. In those two years unemployment has crept up to 445,000. We believe there is nothing wrong with positive action to attack a very real social problem. We believe the attitude taken by so many people that all public expenditure is bad expenditure is a wrong attitude. We believe that public expenditure should be carried out with care. But we believe that the sort of activity which is being indulged in at the moment by the Department of Social Security is too broad and too oppressive and is acting in the wrong direction to do anything about unemployment in the community. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security relating to the case of Miss Karen Green which was referred to the Ombudsman last year. I ask: Has the Ombudsman made a determination in this case? If so, can the Minister tell the Parliament the result of that determination and what action the Government intends to take? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she recalls telling the Senate on 7 November last that she had been assured by her Director-General that, with the new changes to the unemployment benefit system, including computerisation, the first cheque payable to the unemployed would be paid by day 16 after the date of application? Has this assurance been met, and if not, when does she think that the Department will manage to pay unemployment benefit cheques within that time period? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is she aware of a story appearing in the Sydney Press today that there has been a sickness benefit racket which has led to the fraudulent misappropriation of $30m from her Department and that invalid pensions have been sold for some $2,000? The report linked these matters with the murder of a Sydney woman recently. Is there any factual basis for this story? If so, how are investigations proceeding? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 February 1 978: 
1 ) What was the waiting time between applications for unemployment benefit and the posting of the first cheque in the last week of October 1977? 
) What is the present waiting time? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that after two years the Income Security Review Committee has been wound up? In view of the fact that in the last two years various senators in this place and members in another place have been told that some 30 major and minor matters of welfare concern have been referred to this Committee, will the Parliament be allowed to know what conclusions the Committee reached, and will we be able to obtain the background working papers which contain valuable information concerning future welfare planning in this country? 
-I seek clarification of the point  Senator Wright  raised about the definition of 'government'. Does the recognition of a government mean a de jure recognition as  Senator Wright  said? Does it mean that a person of, say, Croatian descent is breaking the law if he invades Yugoslavia whereas this legislation will not apply to someone who invades Latvia, Estonia, or Lithuania? But then, if a person steps out of the borders of Latvia, Estonia or Lithuania into Russia is he contravening the proposed law? I should like some clarification. It seems to me that this point raises interesting possibilities even if they are remote. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Does the Government intend to disband the Social Security Appeals Tribunals shortly? If so, what will be substituted? 
-On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That' and insert 'in the opinion of the Senate the Government should: 
immediately order the establishment of a maritime command of the defence forces to undertake surveillance of the Australian coast and its territorial seas; 
establish the command in northern Australia to involve an integrated force for surveillance, interception et cetera on land, air and sea; 
establish procedures to ensure co-operation between the command and civil authorities. 
Most of the arguments put by  Senator Harradine  cannot be refuted by anyone in this place. We obviously have here a very real problem- one which is increasing and which will continue to increase. As  Senator Harradine  has pointed out, this problem no longer is confined to our northern shores. In Tasmania Japanese squid boats have been detected quite by accident within the 12-mile limit and have been picked up quite by accident by naval vessels basically performing other tasks. The problem will become very much worse if and when, as we assume will happen, Australian extends its limits to 200 miles, thus increasing by a vast amount the area that we have to survey in order to protect this country. Not only will we have to protect the resources in that area; we will have to perform the health and quarantine functions, prevent the illegal importation of drugs and other goods and prevent immigration offences. We also will have the very real problem of defence involved in looking after thus area. 
The Opposition accepts that the problem is an urgent one and that it needs to be grappled with very quickly. As  Senator Harradine  has pointed out, there is an enormous bureaucratic tangle which has been created by the legislative tangle that we have, with a multiplicity of Acts and authorities which deal with the problem in this country. They are pieces of legislation and functions which need to be consolidated if they are to be carried out efficiently. We need positive Government action and we need steps taken to stop the bureaucratic bickering which is taking place now in private, in public and in the Press between various departments and various divisions of the defence forces. We need a positive Government statement of policy so that people, departments and divisions of our defence forces know what our policy is and so that they can move ahead and plan for the future. As  Senator Harradine  has said, this involves air, sea and land functions. 
We are faced with a very great difficulty at the moment. There is an appearance of great incompetence on that part of our naval and air forces in trying to cope with the problems of the north. I repeat that it is an appearance. The individual officers, the individual members of the forces, are not incompetent, but they have neither the equipment nor the appropriate structure to deal with the problem with which they are charged with dealing. We accept this and we accept that this will continue to be the case in the future. If we have an urgent problem and a difficulty which will continue to worsen, I suggest that one way not to solve that problem is to have a long and tedious Senate select committee- or any other committee- trying to deal with it. 
We believe that this is an appropriate function for the defence forces of this country. We accept some of the difficulties put up by  Senator Harradine.  In general it may be politically undesirable for the defence forces of the country to take part in what is essentially a civil function; but, in fact, the surveillance of our 200-mile limit will be both a civil function and a military function. I put it to  Senator Harradine  and other honourable senators that it is very easy to create difficulties where none exist and it is very easy to exaggerate the difficulties.  Senator Harradine  mentioned the cod war and the difficulties that were created around the shores of Iceland because Icelandic gun boats, both civil and military, were involved in shooting at British trawlers. 
I put it to the Senate that equal diplomatic difficulties and equal international incidents will be created by gun boats shooting at the trawlers or ships of other forces regardless of whether those gun boats are controlled by a civil authority or by a military authority. I believe that it is to set up a straw man to say that if we have a civil authority conducting this function we will be able to deal more easily with surrounding countries. Our surrounding countries also have their shores and their fishing areas guarded by military forces- not by coastguard forces, in general. There is always a danger, when a division of the defence forces such as the Navy or the Air Force is given a surveillance function, that too much of the present defence budget will be hived off into this area and that will limit the funding of other functions of those defence forces. It is the function of the Government and members of the Parliament to prevent that happening. It is not an insuperable problem. It is just as likely that even if we hived off that funding and separated it from the defence budget there would be a tendency for government to reduce the defence budget by that amount. The prevention of that is a function of the Parliament and the vigilance of parliamentarians in this country. 
The Opposition believes that this is an urgent problem and that it is a problem that should be dealt with. We believe that the present situation has created the feeling or appearance of incompetence in our armed forces and that that situation is quite unsatisfactory. We believe that this situation is corrected most quickly and efficiently by setting up a maritime command to deal with the surveillance of all the areas of our country and that this can be done economically and with great cost effectiveness- cost effectiveness which can be judged partly by members of this House and the other House. I now seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Withers)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Has the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs within the last three years engaged the Institute of Cultural Affairs as a consultant. 
Has the Department in any other way been associated with the Institute as a client. 
If so, will the Minister supply details. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, follows the earlier question asked by  Senator Bonner.  If the Queensland Government proceeds with its plan to take overthe administration of Aurukun and Mornington Island against the wishes of the Aboriginal people in those areas, will the Government be willing to use the powers of the Parliament under section 5 1 of the Constitution to pass special laws to protect the people in those areas from the efforts of the Queensland Government, and will it be willing to tell the Queensland Government of its willingness to do so? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
As with the other report tabled this afternoon by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  we shall read this report with interest. It is rather voluminous and contains many recommendations. I take note of the Minister's remarks about the pilot program which her Government has established under the children's services program. We think it desirable, even at this late date after that program has been established, that we should have a statement from the Minister setting out in some detail the guidelines of that program and any plans for evaluation of the effectiveness of the program so that the Senate and the general public can discuss those issues. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has the Department of Health within the last three years engaged the Institute of Cultural Affairs as a consultant. 
Has the Department in any other way been associated with the Institute as a client. 
If so, will the Minister supply details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Does the Department of Health have sufficient staff for the assessment and processing of information concerning doctors' incomes, voluntary health funds services and benefits paid. 
Has the Department of Health approached the Public Service Board with a view to obtaining more staff; if so, with what result. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Have the conditions for the payment of special benefits to prisoners on remand been changed recently? If so, how have they been changed and how many families will be affected by these changes? 
-I support the following matter of public importance proposed by  Senator Gietzelt  this afternoon: 
That the Senate request the Federal Government to assume full legislative responsibilities Tor Aurukun and Mornington Island Aborigines in Queensland for the purpose of implementing the Federal Government policies of self-management. 
Other honourable senators have supported the matter also.  Senator Gietzelt  is asking the Government to protect the rights of the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island and, indeed, indirectly to protect the Aboriginal people in the whole of Queensland in this matter. We are asking the Government to use this Parliament's powers to protect these rights- powers given to it in the Constitution; powers that even a Statesrighter such as  Senator Chaney  admits are there. As has been quoted, section 51 of the Constitution reads: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to . . . The people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. 
Ever since I have been in this Parliament, Aurukun in particular and North Queensland in general, have been the subject of controversy at various times- because of the attitude of the Queensland Government, and its Premier in particular, concerning the rights of the people who live in that area. 
Aurukun and Mornington Island are and for a long time have been administered by the same church- initially the Presbyterian Church and now the Uniting Church- more or less as one unit. One expects that that is why Mornington Island is included in this takeover bid by the Queensland Government. We have heard, of course, that a tourist consortium is equally anxious to set up business at Mornington Island as are Aurukun Associates to set up a bauxite mine in the Aurukun region. 
The problems of Aurukun and Mornington Island, in particular, have been well canvassed by previous speakers. The long-felt concern of the Aurukun people, their representatives, and, initially, the Presbyterian Church and now the Uniting Church, and their fears for the future of their settlement as well as for the social and ecological ill effects of mining on this area, have been obvious for a long time. 
I might add that this is not the first time that the possibility of a Queensland Goverment takeover in this area has come to the fore. In June 1977 the Premier threatened to take over the Aurukun Aboriginal Mission from the Uniting Church. At that stage he said that it may be necessary because the church did not have its house in order; that there was a law and order problem at Aurukun. Considerable controversy -very similar to that in the present situationarose at that time. The Queensland Government then backed off: It had been pointed out that the people of Aurukun were also concerned about the problem of law and order in their community and for many years had been requesting the establishment of a police station there to assist with such law and order difficulties as they had. We were informed today by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that they still do not have that police station. One can imagine what would have happened if a white community in Queensland, or anywhere else, the size of Aurukun had been requesting for years a police station in their area and had not received itbecause it was too expensive, or for other reasons. At that stage the people of Aurukun were concerned about law and order. They wished to live in a community which had respect for the law and asked for the ordinary, common, decent provision of a police station there, as was provided in every similar community in Queensland and every other State. Law and order in these circumstances is, I might add, a State responsibility. I repeat, at that stage, because of the controversy, because of the difficulties, the Government of Queensland backed off. 
Now we have a further effort to take over the community of Aurukun and Mornington Island from the Uniting Church which has been administering the area for some 70 years. But the reasons given now are different. We are told by  Mr Porter  that there has been a deterioration in the health and education provided to the children and the people of Aurukun in general. That is just as much a State responsibility as is law and order. As  Senator Bonner  has pointed out quite clearly today, and as was confirmed by the Minister, the responsibility for the provision of health and education services to the people of Aurukun lies with the State Government, assisted by some funding from the Federal Government. If the standards of health and education in this area are dropping the responsibility lies with the State Government, just as it lay with that Government in June 1 977, when in fact the people there were concerned about the problem of lawlessness in their community. The crux of the matter is that we have  Mr Porter,  the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, saying that this attempted takeover has nothing to do with bauxite and nothing to do with the possibility of mining in the area but that it has to do with the provision of health and education in the area. One year ago  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was saying, 'This has nothing to do with bauxite mining in the area'. But the reason given then was different- it concerned the matter of lawlessness. 
Several things have happened in the last few years in the Aurukun area, in particular, which have made the Queensland Government so very interested in it.  Senator Bonner  said that he thought it started in about 1968 when the bauxite industry was getting under way in that area. Indeed, this was confirmed by  Mr BjelkePetersen  in 1975 when the Queensland Government rushed through the Parliament its Bill for an agreement with Aurukun Associates to mine in the area.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  at that time said: There has been interest in mining in this area since 1968 and we have been interested since 1968 in mining in this area'. One remembers the protests when that agreement was signed between the mining consortium and the Queensland Government- without prior consultation with the Aboriginal community or the Uniting Church which had been charged by the State Government to administer the community. 
What has happened in that area since 1968 to lead to the present set of circumstances? Two basic things have happened, I suggest. The first is that the Presbyterian Church, now the Uniting Church of Australia, has introduced graduallyrather belatedly, some may say- a policy of selfmanagement for the people there. 
It is not apartheid,  Senator Wood,  but is designed to allow the people there to decide what they want to do. 
It is for the people to decide that they may not want to integrate, to live in a centralised community in the Aurukun area. That was the first thing that happened: The Uniting Church introduced this policy of encouraging the Aboriginals to, in fact, look after their own affairs, to get to the stage where they could per.fectly well manage those affairs- a policy which, I might add, is also that of this Federal Government, as it was of the previous Federal Government. 
The second phenomenon, as has happened in so many Aboriginal settlements in North Queensland, in the Arnhem Land region and in the Northern Territory in general, was the decision of many Aboriginal people to move back to the land of" their clans; to go back to where they came from before, many years ago, they went to the mission settlements; to attempt to retain part of their culture; to in fact develop their own culture, their own future; to give themselves, literally and metaphorically, some breathing space, so that they could see where they were going. In some cases this policy was stimulated by an attempt to get away from the difficulties of alcohol consumption, which so many of these people have. They wanted to get back to the land that they knew, that they had feeling for, that they felt they had come from. Of course, there was a great difficulty here because much of that land is a bauxite-rich area; a lot of it contains very rich bauxite ore. Looming over the whole problem of Aurukun is the problem of bauxite and what comes from bauxite- profits and money for various people. In 1975, deposits in the area were estimated to be worth well over $1 billion. A small group of Aboriginals is trying to defend its rights over both the Queensland Government and the mining companies which wish to exploit that area. The Aboriginals have seen what happened in Weipa and they are worried about it. They want the right to make their own decisions. 
In 1967 this Parliament was given the constitutional power to protect those people and to allow them to make their own decisions. The Parliament is honour bound to use its constitutional power to make laws for the protection, peace, order and good government of the Aboriginal people in that area. That is what this motion is asking the Federal Government to do. I am pleased that the Minister- if I heard her correctly- has said that the Federal Government is willing to do this if it finds that it is necessary. This motion urges the Government to do this. We saw what happened to the trachoma treatment team in Queensland. We saw what happened to other people, not black people, in Queensland when they were sacked from their jobs for standing for political parties of which the Premier of Queensland does not approve. It is about time that the Parliament asserted its power, given to it in the Constitution, to protect these people. Every speaker in this debate has supported the use of that power. We urge the Government to use it to protect these people. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
The Opposition welcomes this report which has been tabled earlier than we expected. It is quite a lengthy document and we have not yet had the chance to consider it. The problems of health care costs have been a matter of public controversy for some time and a matter of concern to all of us. Many statements have been made by people on both sides of Parliament and outside the Parliament on the causes of this increase in costs. They have often been made without evidence, the evidence not having been assessed or not being available. Among the conclusions reached by the Committee led by  Dr Sax,  I think there are three important conclusions that we should consider. The first is paragraph C 1 9 where the Committee says: 
There is a lack of information about levels of, use of and expenditures on, health services among families with different characteristics. Basic information of this nature is essential for the design and analysis of systems of financing health care. 
Paragraph C20 states: 
It is essential that statistics on claims for health benefits be available for analysis. The supply of information  from  private health benefit organisations is incomplete, and much of the information that is supplied has not been analysed. Without such data, reviews of the use of specific services, or of medical services generally are severely inhibited. 
I- and certainly the Opposition- echo the sentiments expressed in those two conclusions. I would have thought it would be impossible to introduce sane and sensible changes to the systems of funding of health care in this country and to the system of health care in general unless we have that basic information and unless we know just what is happening under the present scheme and what was happening under the previous Medibank scheme. 
In order that we can receive and consider that information I ask the Government and the Minister for Health in particular to urge the voluntary health funds- the private health funds- to supply the information which the Minister by regulation has required them to supply. One understands- I have a question on notice on this matter- that the two largest health funds in the community have refused to give such information, and continue to refuse to give such information. One understands that in fact only a small number of very small funds have given the information which is required of them and that they cover a very small percentage of the people in funds in this community. I would have thought that even with this document- I am sure it is a valuable document and we will study it with care- it will be very difficult for any of us, the Government in particular, to come to any conclusions about what should be done about the funding of health care in this community and about paying for health care in this community before we have that vital information. 
We already have had changes in the Medibank scheme in the duration of this Government without such vital information and those changes, we believe, have severely disadvantaged the community in Australia. We believe that before any further changes are made the basic statistical data which is available should be collected from those who have it and analysed by those who have the wherewithal and the knowledge to analyse it so that we can make our judgments on accurate figures and on an accurate knowledge of what is happening in the community. As I said, we welcome the report. With those remarks I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question to the Minister for Administrative Services refers to the statement he made last week on behalf of the Prime Minister that an independent assessor would consider the new tenderers for a computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade. I ask: Has the Government yet appointed this independent assessor and, if so, will the Minister state his identity and background? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
What percentage of terminated unemployment benefit payments has subsequently had to be reactivated. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) How many appeals were received by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals against the denial of unemployment benefit during the 1976-77 vacation. 
How many were upheld by the Tribunals, and how many of these were subsequently rejected by the DirectorGeneral of Social Security. 
) How many such appeals were finalised in each month of 1977. 
How many such appeals were successful. 
What was the average waitingtime before the appellants received notification of the decision of the Director-General. 
Are any such appeals still outstanding. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) What is the average waiting time in each State from the lodgement of appeal against termination of pensions and benefits in the following areas to the notification of the decision by the Director-General to the appellant: (a) age pension; (b) invalid pension; (c) widows' pension; (d) supporting mothers' pension; (e) supporting fathers' pension; (f) sickness benefit; and (g) special benefits in 1 977. 
How does this waiting time compare with that of the two previous years. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact, as reported, that her Department was made aware of the possibility of large scale fraud in invalid and sickness benefit payments by reports from the community involved? Is it a fact that all the cases involved mental illness and that the number of invalid pensions paid overseas to the country involved is proportionately much higher than the numbers paid to other countries? If so, is a continuous check made of such payments to detect unusual concentrations of illnesses or ethnic groups receiving payments, or in geographical distribution of payments, to detect earlier the possibility of such frauds? 
I wish to speak briefly on this subject and express some satisfaction that in the fortnight of the Easter recess  Senator Chaney, Senator Peter  Baume and at least some other Government senators have accepted that the suggestion in the Opposition's amendment that this matter be reviewed by the Committee of Privileges is a worthy suggestion. I must say that after reading  Senator Chaney  's further amendment and comparing it with  Senator Button's  amendment, and not being so brilliant in English and semantics as is  Senator Chaney,  I find great difficulty in detecting the distinction between the two, but I will study them further and see what I can find. There are two aspects which have arisen in the debate on your statement,  Mr President,  which have caused some misunderstanding. These security changes that you and  Mr Speaker  made were made in such a way that when they were introduced no one knew what was going on. 
We had extraordinary security precautions here on the day of the opening of Parliament which seemed to be changed at various times during the day and night, if the experiences of  Senator Primmer  and others who spoke on this subject are accurate, and I am sure they are. We had changes introduced in an atmosphere of almost hysteria in this country and the security provisions that were made at the opening of Parliament quite frankly gave one the impression of great ineptitude on the part of those who introduced them. At the opening of Parliament on the Tuesday it was almost impossible to get into the place. In fact another honourable senator and I were refused admission. However, when we arrived at the front door of the Parliament the next morning there was literally no one there. We strolled in apparently unobserved by anybody. It was in this atmosphere that the changes were introduced. The fact that the changes were introduced without details being given to anyone, including the people who have to take part in the performance of security functions around the place, resulted in this uncertainty and the feeling that we did not know what was going on. 
The second aspect that has caused problems, I am sure, is the fact that the second set of security provisions- the ones we have now- were introduced without consultation with the Parliament and without consultation with even a committee of the Parliament like a Privileges Committee. In the four years that I have been in this Parliament many people have spoken on the lack of security in our offices and in the building generally, particularly late at night and early in the morning, about doors not being locked and about people seemingly being able to wander in and out at will. We have had complaints in this chamber- indeed we had quite a vigorous debate on this in this chamber- that someone had stolen a report from an honourable senator's office. For all that time various people have been expressing concern about the lack of security in this place but nothing has been done. 
What is happening at present arose out of an incident which occured in Sydney. It arose on the initiative of a Prime Minister whose reaction to the incident at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney was highly criticised by all sorts of people around the country. Ex-intelligence officers like  Major Peter  Young, and Professor Geoffrey Fairbairn, who is considered, certainly by people opposite, as an expert on terrorism, criticised the initiatives of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as being an over-reaction, heavy-handed and possibly ineffective. Yet they were initiated in this Parliament by this same gentleman. One understands, though one does not know for sure, that in fact you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  watered down considerably the provisions that the Prime Minister wanted to introduce. For that I am grateful, as I am sure everybody else is grateful. 
On the matter of security, I must say that I have no objection to a security system in this place which keeps tabs on people who are wandering around the private sections- not the public sections like Kings Hall- of this Parliament and limits the possibility of their wandering at will in and out of my office or anybody else's office. If the best method of doing so is the use of identification badges, I will accept that. But we have not discussed in this place whether that is the best method. We have not had the advice of a committee like the Privileges Committee as to whether it is the best method. It is very likely that it is the best method. But it is wrong to introduce a method like that, saying: 'This is what you will have; it is effective', without having some evidence that it is effective. I accept the fact that employees at airports must wear identification badges to protect my safety and the safety of everybody else. I really do not object if that is the best system of keeping tabs on people in this place. I hope- and I seek an assurance that this will be the case- that areas such as Kings Hall and other areas which are traditionally accessible to the public shall remain so, with as little limitation on the movement of the public as possible. 
I must add that I have no objection if people who wish to see me must first contact me or my research assistant from the front door of the House and ascertain whether I am able to see them. I do not appreciate, and have not appreciated in the past, people who are drunk, or disturbed or even just irate, walking into my office unannounced. This has happened in the past. 
-I am sure that  Senator Withers  directs them all up to my office. As I say, this has happened in the past and I do not think it should happen in the future. It is not a matter of privileges or rights or anything else. I think it is a matter of common efficiency that people should not be allowed to wander around this place in any sort of state and be able to burst into my office and start haranguing me or praising me, should that unusual circumstance arise, or anything else. I am not so much concerned with the so-called privileges and rights of members of parliament as they affect me, provided I am able to work efficiently and provided I have proper access to the Parliament, to have freedom of speech and access to the people whom I am supposed to represent. But, as I said before, I am very concerned about the methods that were used to introduce the measures we have now. I think this is the crux of the problem. This is what is referred to in  Senator Button's  amendment and I am pleased to see that  Senator Chaney  and his colleagues, whoever they are, have accepted the fact that this is a matter of concern. 
As I said, these security measures were introduced at an abnormal time in an atmosphere of hysteria and at the behest of a Prime Minister who was trying to flog every bit of political mileage he could out of the incident that occurred in Sydney. I am glad,  Mr President,  that you and the  Speaker  watered down the provisions he wanted. This is to be welcomed. But the fact remains that the changes were made without reference to the Houses of the Parliament and without reference even to the Privileges Committee or any other appropriate committee of this Parliament upon which we can all be represented. A precedent has been set whereby, in future, an Executive which may have compliant presiding officers in this place can extend the security measures and interfere with the functioning of this Parliament and with the so-called rights and privileges of the Parliament on the pretext that it is protecting the members of the Parliament or that it is protecting the staff of the members of Parliament. No one in this place seems to like to admit that they are a bit worried about themselves but they are all terribly worried about their staff. We all accept the risks inherent in being parliamentarians. We have all suffered verbal abuse. I have even seen a senior parliamentarian physically assaulted. 
He was physically assaulted by one of your supporters, senator. But we must be very wary of using emotive occasions and emotional arguments like that to suddenly introduce drastic new measures which, on consideration, may be necessary but which I believe mostly will be unnecessary. I think such measures as are introduced should be scrutinised by a committee- and I think the Privileges Committee is probably the most appropriate committeewhich contains representatives of all parties in this Parliament so that we can somehow protect the democratic processes and practices of our parliamentary democracy. If any attempt is made by an Executive or by presiding officers to interfere with the proper functioning of the Parliament, appropriate publicity can be given to it and pressures applied so that changes cannot be made under those circumstances. The changes should be made in a calm and unemotional atmosphere, not as a result of an hysterical reaction as is the case with these changes. This is the worry. I accept the fact that we cannot debate and broadcast to the world the minutiae of every security arrangement that has ever been made in this place. But neither should the security procedures used in this place be the prerogative of the Executive or, in my opinion, of the Presiding Officers alone. 
I have said that on the surface I have no particular objection to the present security measures that have been introduced, although I am still uncertain as to exactly how they are supposed to operate. Therefore I express concern. Until I am quite clear on what is supposed to happen, I cannot express approval or disapproval. There seems to be a great difference of opinion around this place as to whether a constituent who comes to visit me, or any other member in this place, needs to have a pass to get from the front door to my office or the office of any other honourable member. There seems to be a great difference of opinion amongst attendants and others as to whether someone has to go to the front door and conduct that visitor to my office or the other offices and whether that visitor in fact has to declare his name and address. That is one issue on which I cannot get a clear answer from anyone. This sort of thing has to be made perfectly clear, apart from anything else so that people are not inconvenienced and harassed too much in this place. 
I hope that the amendment moved by  Senator Button  is carried. From a cursory look I see that the amendment moved by  Senator Chaney  would have the same effect. I hope that the Privileges Committee can do its job and look carefully at what has been introduced and that any future measures will not be introduced without the Committee of Privileges followed by the Parliament, as much as possible, looking at them carefully, not only to protect us but also to protect the Parliament as an institution, the democratic process and therefore our constituents who also need protecting if we are to retain our present system. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
How many (a) males and (b) females in each State were transferred from unemployment benefit to sickness benefit in 1977. 
How many (a) males and (b) females in each State were transferred from unemployment benefit to invalid pension in 1977. 
How many (a) males and (b) females in each State were transfered from sickness benefit to invalid pension in 1977. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether the interpreter charged in the conspiracy case in Sydney yesterday was employed by her Department? I also ask: How many interpreters in the Greek language has the Department in Sydney, and is there any difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of interpreters in this language to assist the migrants concerned? 
I wish to speak generally on the Bill before the Senate, the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill 1978. As we have been told, the Bill is designed to alter existing legislation in order to subsidise the cost of transporting some petroleum products to country areas in Australia. It is said that the aim of the Bill is to reduce the price of motor spirit, power kerosene, distillate, aviation gasoline and some turbine fuels to some country areas in Australia.  Senator Kilgariff  said much about the scheme. If he believes that  Senator Walsh,  who preceded him, is the supreme pessimist like Hanrahan in 'Around the Boree Log', then I suggest that he must be the supreme optimist. He has told us that this Bill will firstly reduce the price of petrol in country areas to within 4c a gallon of prices in other areas. He should know- I am sure he does know- that this Bill will go nowhere near to reducing the price of petrol to that extent. He also said that the Bill will lead to the repopulation of the northern parts of this country and that it will have the effect of assisting our national security by increasing the population and therefore increasing our ability to survey our northern shores and, presumably, help our military security. If he believes all that he will be disappointed and his constituents will be disappointed when they see the effects of this legislation. 

 Senator Walsh has moved an amendment, not opposing the passage of the Bill but expressing an opinion as to its inadequacy and shortcomings when considered in the light of the coalition parties' election promise and also in the light of reports received on the petroleum industry in this country, such as the report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum conducted by  Mr Justice  Collins. The Bill should reduce the price of some petroleum products for some consumers in some of the outlying areas of Australia. It is worth while pointing out that a large proportion of the expenditure will go to large areas of population such as Canberra and Broken Hill. In most areas of Australia outside the large conurbations and certainly in the majority of the region of Tasmania where I come from where petrol prices are high compared with the rest of the large populated areas of Australia, this legislation will not have any effect as  Senator Walsh  clearly demonstrated from the figures supplied by the Government. It certainly will not go within a bull's roar of achieving the stated aim of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech at the end of last year of reducing country prices initially to within one cent per litre and later to within 0.5c per litre of city prices. 
We are told that the reduction of the differential to 0.5c per litre of city prices will be achieved in the life of this Parliament. This legislation certainly goes nowhere near it. In fact, it may make the achievement of any such aim very difficult. Apart from that, as has been pointed out in the Senate, in the Press and in the other place, there is no such thing as a city price for petrol. We have nothing with which to compare the figure of one cent and 0.5c per litre. It has been obvious for a long time that there is a very real problem with regard to petroleum pricing and marketing in Australia. The fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum gives ample testimony to this fact. The chaotic, unfair and incoherent state of the marketing and pricing mechanisms is documented in the report and in many other sources. This Bill does nothing to change that situation. As I have said before- I shall talk about it later- it may, in fact, aggravate the present difficult situation. 
It surprises me and it is always unusual to see a Bill such as this introduced by a Government whose members and supporters continually harp on the importance of free markets and allowing market forces to hold sway so that we will all get justice. Yet it interferes directly and indirectly with market forces with legislation such as this Bill. Furthermore, the chief protagonists of this Bill, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  have attempted in a not-too-subtle manner to pressure the oil companies into voluntarily selling their products at a uniform price throughout Australia. I suggest that this is a complete contradiction to the advocacy of a free market and allowing free market forces to prevail. 
When people who have a firm belief, as honourable senators opposite have, introduce legislation to go against that belief that legislation frequently does not go far enough or does not work. That is what has happened in this case. Since Federation attempts have been made to overcome the disadvantages of living in areas away from the Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane axis. Conservative governments, under pressure from the Country Party, have introduced what we call product subsidies, such as the superphosphate bounty, the dairy bounty and this petroleum transport subsidy which is indirectly the same thing as the others. All subsidy arrangements have several features in common. Firstly, they benefit mostly those who are the biggest consumers- in the case of the dairy bounty the biggest producers- of the products for which they are paid. In every case those people need the subsidy least so they are inequitable in their distribution. Secondly, they have little or no effect on the overall cost disadvantages of those who live in outlying areas. One can demonstrate that quite clearly. They are also potentially subject to abuse and administrative difficulties. It is not only Opposition senators who realise the difficulties that may arise from this legislation. 
In the years when we had subsidies based on products consumed or produced, such as the superphosphate bounty, the dairy bounty and now the petrol subsidy, they were continuously paraded, as the petrol subsidy was paraded tonight by  Senator Kilgariff,  as measures which would discourage the drift from outlying areas to the cities, would encourage decentralisation, would assist rural producers and do other marvellous things for people in the outlying areas. In the time in which those subsidies have been in existence we have become the most urbanised country in the world. Our number of primary producers is less than half what it was. Decentralisation where it has occurred- it has had a patchy history of success- has done so because of measures introduced usually by State governments to encourage industries into the country. In the case of the products involved in this Bill, the Government's policy of increasing crude oil prices in the next five years will result in an increase from that source alone of some 50c per gallon; the cost will increase by 1 lc this year and by 10c a year for the next four years. Added to the market chaos that price increase will completely overbalance the effects on the economics of living outside the urban areas that this measure will have. 
The honourable senator should not be impatient. He will have his chance later. I believe that we should try to reduce the economic disadvantages of living outside the great conurbations in which  Senator Baume  lives. We should try to define what the disadvantages are. That is a fairly reasonable way to start. If necessary, we should try to quantify the disadvantages if possible. If they could be largely defined and quantified in financial terms we could use an equitable and appropriate measure to correct them which would benefit everybody equally in those areas, such as a zone allowance or a taxation rebate for those living in certain areas. I realise that there are constitutional difficulties. We have them now. I realise that there are difficulties of definition but they should not stop us from trying. At least this would have an equitable effect on individuals. Subsidies would not go mostly to those who need them least. 
I am pointing out that a taxation rebate would go to individuals on an equal basis whereas a subsidy such as this will go mostly to those people who use most and will have least effect on those who use the least. I accept  Senator Wright's  point. I believe that we may well have to assist in the subsidisation of some commodities for specific reasons of national importance such as to assist in production- that was the purpose of the superphosphate bounty when it was first introduced but it has certainly changed- or the production of some necessary resource or primary product. If that sort of measure was introduced, the necessity for these kinds of subsidies would be lessened. 
I make no bones about the fact that we must look to measures other than the ones we have used in the past. As I have said before, although I believe  Senator Wright  was not here, they have not worked. There is no evidence that they have worked. For instance, we pay uniform social security benefits throughout this country, but I am very much aware of the fact that the unemployment benefit or the pension paid to someone in Darwin, for instance, is worth very much less to that person than is the same benefit or pension paid to someone in Sydney or Melbourne or somewhere else where the cost of living is considerably less than it is in Darwin. The answer to those people and the answer to other people in the country surely does not lie in subsidies such as this. While we concentrate on subsidy such as this, I suggest that we tend to neglect the alternative means and we do not think about alternative means of overcoming these very real difficulties. 
I have made it obvious that I have little faith in measures such as this. However, I wish to look also at some of the other factors which are involved in petrol pricing and retailing and which make life difficult for the consumers of this country. The fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum- the report by Justice Collins- made no bones about its conclusions in regard to what it thought of the present situation. Justice Collins says in paragraph 31.1 on page 32 1 of the report: 
In large pan due to the way petroleum product prices have been controlled in Australia, current pricing practices are confusing, anomalous and sometimes non-economic. In particular, the pricing structure has acquired, for reasons now historic rather than actual, mechanisms whereby one product, geographic area, or class of consumers subsidises others. 
We in Tasmania know all about that. The report continues: 
The reasons why these cross subsidies exist, the policies which called them forth, the effects which they were intended to achieve are forgotten, unknown and sometimes unknowable. 
Then Justice Collins finally sums up the situation by saying: 
The structure  of pricing  is just a mess. 
That is a clear and beautiful description. Supporters of companies and the activities of those companies continually use statements such as: This is the result of market forces' and 'This is the result of the free market operating' in order to justify the state of this industry. But  Mr Justice  Collins goes into great detail further on in his report about the manner in which the market has been manipulated, torn about, jumped upon and everything else. In writing his report he usually uses the words of the industry representatives to make his point. He talks of the price of motor spirits being too high to subsidise the less profitable parts of the industry. He talks about the way in which company-owned retail outlets are discriminated against, how they are excessive in number, how the rest of the country was then subsidising the Melbourne metropolitan area and how unbranded petrol is discounted to the disadvantage of the branded retailers. We in this country now have the extraordinary situation in which petrol is in fact retailed in every mainland capital city- that is, excluding Hobart- at a price less than that of the Prices Justification Tribunal's accepted wholesale price. Yet we have the oil companies asking for further increases in prices. That situation is confusing not only to Justice Collins but also to everyone else in the community. 
The commissioner calls for administrative and pricing policies to bring justice to the industry. But above all he calls for policies which enable the authorities to gain information on which to base decisions. The purpose of that is to overcome the secrecy maintained in the industry. Given that that situation exists, legislation is now being introduced to affect an industry about which we know little, which is notorious for its secrecy, and whose marketing and retailing system, in the words of  Mr Justice  Collins, is 'just a mess'. 
I believe that the legislation in fact may not improve the situation at all. That is a fact which has been mentioned not only by Opposition members but also in fact by Government supporters in another place. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  for instance, pointed out that under the previous system, which is not much different from this system, companies used less efficient but subsidised inland transport routes in favour of sea routes which were not subsidised. That sort of situation will be relevant when this legislation comes into effect. It makes no difference, and there is no reason why that will not happen in the future. The honourable member for Mallee pointed out also that the previous scheme gave no incentive to companies to increase the efficiency of transportation of petroleum products in this country: and neither does this scheme. Other members of the other place pointed out that no account is taken in the setting up of schemes such as this of the fact that capital and recurrent costs of retailing in some outlying areas and in some rural areas may in fact be much less than those in the city areas. 
This subsidy will be paid to oil companies. No guarantee is provided in this legislation that the retailer will always pass the price reduction on to the consumer. In fact, it will be very difficult for the consumer to have any opportunity of checking whether such benefits are passed on, because we are dealing with an industry in which price increases are pretty frequent, in which they are very small per delivered unit, and in relation to which publicity will not be widely circulated about the benefits paid under a scheme such as this. 
From what I can find, no indication is given of how transport costs are to be calculated. Apparently they will be calculated on costs which are supplied by the oil companies to the Government and to the Prices Justification Tribunal. They will be supplied by those same oil companies which, according to  Mr Justice  Collins in his Royal Commission report, are notorious for their practice of cross subsidy. 
What remains to be considered is the effect of such legislation as this on the use of petroleum products which are subsidised at the expense of some products, petroleum and otherwise, which in fact will not be subsidised. That is occurring at a time when we know we will be facing a shortage of petroleum products and when we know we will be in difficulty in the future. We know that the Government intends- certainly the Party I represent intends when able- to introduce energy conservation policies. We know also that calls have already been made, even before the legislation is passed, by members of the Government and others for subsidies similar to this to be made on fuel oil and other products so that no disadvantage will result. That sort of action never ends. 
This legislation concerns me, firstly, obviously because, as I said before, I have little faith, for historical reasons and for practical reasons, in its effect on the welfare of those people in rural areas. It will certainly not affect the vast majority of areas in Tasmania which are equally disadvantaged. They are disadvantaged largely by the rather strange and chaotic petrol pricing arrangements in this country. As I have said, the legislation cannot go close to achieving the Government's promise to equalise city and country prices for the simple reason that there is no city price. There has not been a city price for a long time. We have in existence a chaotic marketing system involving discounting, counterdiscounting and cross-subsidisation in the cities and in some of the large country towns. That situation is nowhere near solution, and we have no indication that it is anywhere near solution. 
The legislation concerns me because it is open to abuse. It may encourage the inefficient subsidised means of transport and discourage efficient unsubsidised means of transport. In fact it may encourage practices which create disadvantages in other areas. The oil industry has no rational basis of operation or pricing in this country. Its practices are irrational and secretive, as Justice Collins said. I suggest that this subsidy granted on top of that situation will not help and in fact may aggravate the problems that we have. I would much prefer that we all look at a more sensible means of equalising city and country costs and make an attempt to quantify the difference in those costs. If we carry this proposal to its extreme it will mean the equalisation of the price of all essential items such as food, clothing and building materials for housing throughout Australia. I am sure that no one here is seriously suggesting that that is possible or sensible. 
For the benefit of the few who will receive assistance and because the Government made a promise to do something about this matteralthough people will receive nowhere near the assistance suggested by  Senator Kilgariff-  we do not oppose the second reading of the Bill. I believe that all honourable senators from both sides of the Senate should look seriously at alternative methods for solving problems like this. We should point out to the Government the inadequacies in the legislation, in its operation and for the consumers. We should also point out to the Government that whatever we may think about the legislation, it represents a failure by the Government to uphold one of the main policy promises made before the last election.  Senator Walsh  has listed the sorts of tiny subsidies which are available. I have talked about the inequitable distribution of subsidies like this. I repeat that they have not worked in the past. They have not achieved the effect at which they aimed in the past. I have not heard any argument to suggest that this subsidy will achieve that effect in the future. Therefore I support the amendment moved by  Senator Walsh. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister for Health required private health benefit organisations to provide data to the Commonwealth regarding individual services such as: (a) patient identification; ( b) doctor providing the service; (c) item of service; (d ) fee charged; and (e) benefit paid. 
) Which funds have provided this information. 
What is the percentage of privately insured patients covered by these funds. 
Have the two largest funds, Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, refused to provide this information; if so, what action does the Minister propose to take. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) What are the limitations on staffing for nursing homes funded under deficit funding arrangements in the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1974. 
) Have the conditions changed in the last two years. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the increasing complaints of delays of several weeks in the payment of allowances under the National Employment and Training scheme, paticularly to many people who have previously been receiving unemployment benefit and have been transferred to the NEAT scheme on the advice of officers of her Department? Is she also aware that inquiries made into the reasons for these delays elicited the reply that the delay is due to difficulties in the Department of Social Security which is the paying agent and difficulties with the Department's computer? Has the Minister made any investigations about this matter? Will she take actions to alleviate the hardships caused by some of these delays? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister investigated the problems in the Department of Social Security in Bowen, Queensland, with reference to displaced meatworkers, drawn to her attention by the Merinda Branch of the Australian Meat Industry Employees 'Union. 
How many hours' overtime per week were worked by officers in the Bowen branch of the Department of Social Security, during February. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
How many people received Special Benefit during 1975, 1976 and 1977. 
What was the percentage of the recipients of Special Benefit in 1975, 1976 and 1977 who were unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the average time between application and receipt of first payment of unemployment benefits processed by the Gympie, Queensland, office of Social Security. 
How many hours' overtime per week were worked by officers of the Gympie office in the month of February. 
-I wish to speak only briefly on this matter. Like  Senator Wright,  I do not claim to be an expert on either the affairs of Aborigines or the constitutional problems of this country, but there are various aspects of the legislation and the manner in which it has been handled and brought to this Parliament which disturb me. I would like to speak about those matters. It is very sad-it is a quite disturbing situation- to be in Australia in 1978 and find that people such as those at Aurukun and Mornington Island are disturbed and worried by the thought that their administration may be taken over by one of our State governments, a government elected by the people of that State. It is equally distressing that a body such as the Uniting Church in Australia, a respected body despite some of the things  Senator Wood  said about it, should feel the need to pressure this Parliament and members on both sides of the Parliament by telegram and other means into passing legislation, which the Church has not seen, in order to protect the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island, who have been under the Church's pastoral care, from a State government which allegedly represents the people of that State. 
It is sad- in fact, it is pathetic- that an Australian government should have to declare urgent a Bill such as this, push it through the lower House of the Parliament and then insist that it be passed by the Upper House to overcome and short circuit an action which it believes the Queensland Government may take and which would have a serious effect on the Aboriginal community. I might add that the Federal Government is made up of members of the same constituent parties that make up the Queensland Government. A spectacle such as this can give little joy to the citizens of this country generally and certainly will give little joy to our Aboriginal citizens who may be looking to the democratic processes of this country to protect them and as a means for their further development. It seems to me that whenever legislation of this nature comes into the Parliament we get the sort of speech from  Senator Wood  which we have just heard. That type of speech does not help the situation much and did not, for instance, when some time ago we debated the anti-discrimination Bill. 
This debate here and in the other place has been helpful in that it has clarified some of the history of the present situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island in particular and in Queensland in general. It certainly has clarified my thinking. In view of the version just given by  Senator Wood  of the history of what has happened at Aurukun and the reasons for what has happened with very little evidence being produced to support what he said, I believe that I should bring together briefly some of the evidence we now have about what has happened in the area and why this legislation is before the Parliament so that we can get a clearer picture and I can counteract some of the things that 

 Senator Wood has said. Two weeks ago in this place we debated a matter of public importance on this subject. Honourable senators on both sides of this chamber then agreed that something would have to be done in view of the Queensland Government's threatened action to take over the administration of Aurukun and Mornington Island. We all had a fair idea of what was going on. We all had our own ideas on how the situation had developed but this debate has brought forward more information about what is happening. Largely one can thank for this not only  Senator Martin  who produced a large number of documents and dug out a lot of information, but also Senators Cavanagh, Keeffe and Collard. 
The first thing of importance concerning the take-over of Aurukun and Mornington Island, and it is historically the first thing, is the finding of bauxite in the area. We know from the words of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  when he introduced the Aurukun Associates Agreement Bill into the Queensland Parliament in December 1975 that he and his Government had had a great interest in the bauxite in the Aurukun area and the potential mining of it since 1968. He mentioned this not only in the debate but also outside and has been quoted in the Press as saying the same. 
He was saying that the potential of Aurukun had been well known to the Queensland Government since 1968 and that that Government had had an interest in developing mining in that area since 1968. 1 am using it merely to go on and develop another point. Still on the issue of bauxite, we know that in December 1975 the Queensland Government rushed through a Bill to legalise the agreement between the Queensland Government and Aurukun Associates. The Aboriginal people at Aurukun were not consulted on the matter, nor was the Presbyterian Church which was administering the settlement of Aurukun. We all remember the considerable controversy at that time over this precipitate action of the Queensland Government. 
We then come to the second important factor, the development at Aurukun, in common with many other Aboriginal settlements in this country, of a movement towards decentralisation on the reserve, the outstation movement, with clans and various Aboriginal groups leaving the main settlement to which they had been attracted by the setting up of missions many years ago, establishing their own settlements and going to the land they felt was important to them, in some cases to get away from problems which had arisen in the old mission settlements and perhaps in some cases to sit and think and work out for themselves just where they wanted to go. This movement is not confined to the Aurukun region. Any one who has been to Groote Eylandt and has seen how the clan groups at Umbakumba have moved to other areas, as have groups in the Northern Territory and Arnhem Land, will know that this movement is not confined to Aurukun. 
We know that the Presbyterian Church before it became pan of the Uniting Church had agreed to the policy of self-determination for Aborigines to get away from the previous paternalism and to allow Aborigines to sort out and develop their own affairs. For a long time many of us- certainly the spokesman for Aboriginal Affairs on this side, as well as  Senator Bonner  and others more knowledgeable than us- knew that the Queensland Government disapproved of this trend. I can remember in the debate on 6 April some honourable senators being surprised at the remarks of  Mr Killoran,  the Director of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in Queensland, in February this year that he had only then suddenly discovered that the outstation movement was occurring at Aurukun and that there were outstation developments. We are therefore grateful to  Senator Martin  for bringing before this House documented evidence that  Mr Killoran  had known about this since 1975, had had frequent correspondence with the Uniting Church about it since 1975, had frequently expressed his disapproval of such action and at one stage had declared, quite wrongly as was shown later, that the outstation movement and the development of clan and family groups away from the settlement was illegal because it was against the policy of the Queensland Government. 
So we have two factors. The first is that there is bauxite in the area. The Queensland Government is interested in mining that bauxite and has taken steps to develop mines. The second is that the Aboriginals in the area were developing a decentralised movement- a movement away from the main mission station into clans. 
Then we come to the problem of the Queensland Government wishing to take over from the Uniting Church the responsibility for the administration of the mission station. Here we have a mixed story, depending on the source that one seeks. The first time I became aware, and that most people in this chamber became aware, that the Queensland Government might be interested in taking over the administration of Aurukun and Mornington Island was in June last year when there was considerable publicity about it. There was also considerable public reaction and the Queensland Government backed-off at that stage. The publicly stated reason given by the Premier of Queensland and the then Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement about the need to take over that settlement was that there was a problem there with law and order, a problem with disturbances. 
We know that in 1973 and 1974 and part of 1975 there were some problems at Aurukun. But what has since come to light from evidence given on both sides of this chamber and the other place is that the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island had been concerned about the problems of law and order- and that is a State Government responsibility- at their settlements since 1971 and had made repeated requests to the Queensland Government for police stations to be built and policemen to be stationed on their not inconsiderably-sized settlements. We know that that request was refused repeatedly. The people were concerned about law and order; they had requested the assistance of a policeman to help them maintain law and order; and the Queensland Government had refused this request. 
The Queensland Government's attitude in this regard is in contrast to its attitude to other settlements in Queensland such as the one at Cherbourg. Honourable senators who have been to the Cherbourg settlement know that considerably more capital has been spent on it than on either Aurukun or Mornington Island settlements. They also know that there is a police station at Cherbourg, even though the settlement is close to a European settlement, which also has a police station. Yet the people of Aurukun and the people at Mornington Island in particular, far from European settlement and who had been seeking police assistance regarding their law and order problem, in fact had been refused this right. They are still being refused this right- a right which certainly would not be refused to an equally sized European settlement. So the excuse given in June 1977 that law and order was the problem does not seem to hold water. Law and order is a State responsibility. The people were aware of the problem and sought State assistance to solve it. The State did not need to take over the administration in order to solve the problem. 
Then this year we had the further attempt by the Queensland Government to take over the administration of Aurukun and Mornington 
Island. This time the stated reason of the Queensland Government and of its Minister.  Mr Porter,  was that there had been a breakdown in standards as regards health and education on the settlements. I repeat: As in the case of law and order, education and health on those settlements are State responsibilities. There was considerable debate as to whether these problems were as bad as had been stated and whether they were so bad as to require this drastic Queensland Government action. There was considerable debate as to whether these were the real reasons. The Queensland Government said that it was nothing to do with bauxite: It was to do with health and education. But  Senator Wood  blew the gaff on the whole situation during Question Time in this chamber when he said that the real reason why the Queensland Government wished to take over the settlements was that the outstation movement and the move towards selfmanagement in the area was in fact apartheid, that the Queensland Government disapproved of it and it was not going to tolerate this sort of development on the settlements. 
This is an area rich in bauxite. The Queensland Government was so keen to develop the mining of bauxite in the area that it rushed an agreement with a multinational combine through the Queensland Parliament. Yet for all this time the Queensland Government has been giving different reasons as to why it wants to take over this area. There is very real resistance from the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island, as well as very real resistance from the Uniting Church. The situation now is that the people have had to come to the Federal Government to protect them from the actions of the Queensland Government. 
The Queensland Government's actions are aimed at facilitating mining and preventing this self-determination. The stated aim of this Bill is to prevent that sort of thing happening and in fact to enable the people to have some say in their own future, their own management. To equate legislation like this with apartheid, as  Senator Wood  has tried to do, is just a travesty of truth. In fact a more accurate analogy might be drawn between apartheid and the actions of the Queensland government in over-riding the wishes of the community, in refusing to concede that they are equal citizens in this country, by having on its statute books discriminatory legislation affecting the lives of Aboriginals in many ways and by covering its actions and intentions in this matter with deception. The language of  Senator Wood  in describing his colleagues and the Uniting Church as socialists and Whitlamites and a number of other things might be amusing and might be interesting, but it is very hard to imagine the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  as a latter day Rosa Luxemburg, or someone like that. However, it does not help us to look at the problem rationally and it certainly does not help me in my consideration of what is a very difficult piece of legislation. 
I come now to the Opposition's attitude to this Bill and the reasons why we have moved this amendment. During the Easter recess it seemed that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was in fact going to carry out his threat and take over the Aurukun and Mornington Island settlements by 1 April. The disapproval throughout the country and the almost unanimous disapproval in this Parliament of that action was really quite remarkable. I do not think there has been an issue in recent times when there has been such unanimous disapproval within the community, within the media and within the Parliament. 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bill  Hayden, and the shadow minister for Aboriginal affairs,  Dr Doug  Everingham, called for urgent and early legislation, and if necessary, for the Parliament to meet before 1 April so that urgent legislation could be drawn up and passed, under the powers provided in the Constitution by the 1967 referendum, to try to prevent this precipitate, unpopular and unjust action of the Queensland Government. At that time we saw that there was an urgent situation and at that time we thought that urgent action would be needed. Since then, the Queensland Premier has temporarily withdrawn his threat of precipitate action. Despite this, complex legislation was introduced into the Lower House and declared urgent. The legislation affects statutes not only of this Parliament but also of the Queensland Parliament. We have not been given a reason why this precipitate action has been taken in view of the fact that the Queensland Premier has withdrawn his threat to take over the settlements for some months. We should have at least been given a reason why this legislation is urgent. 
If the Queensland Premier had publicly threatened the Australian Government that he would change his present policy and do what he threatened to do previously, we may have viewed the matter differently. But we have not been given any information that that is so. The people in Aurukun and Mornington Island have not had the opportunity to seek advice on the legislation. Although the Uniting Church is obviously concerned about the potential actions of the Premier of Queensland, it has not had a detailed look at this legislation. In fact, the Opposition has had limited time to consider the legislation and how it will affect other legislation, future relationships between the Australian Government and the Queensland Government and the rights of the people at Aurukun. 

 Senator Wright raised considerable doubts and objections to the legal and constitutional aspects of the Bill, something which is beyond my capacity. He said that he has had some difficulty because of the lack of time and the need for advice to look at the legality and constitutional validity of the Bill. As stated by  Senator Gietzelt, Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Cavanagh,  the Opposition has grave doubts about whether the Bill will achieve everything it is attempting to achieve and whether, in fact, it may not make things more difficult on the Aboriginal settlements in Queensland or on those Aboriginal settlements which choose to come under Federal legislation. It is for this reason that the Opposition supports the amendment moved by  Senator Wright  to follow the normal processes of the Parliament and adjourn debate on the Bill so that we can consider it properly.  Senator Gietzelt  has moved an amendment to withdraw the Bill to that we can consult with the representatives of the Aboriginal community and others to take into account any suggestions they make. This would also assist the introduction of legislation to make provision for carrying out our Party's policy and the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Woodward; that is, the provision of proper land rights for Aboriginals. 

 Senator Wright announced that he will move that this legislation go to a select committee of the Senate. I doubt the usefulness of that mechanism in the present circumstances. At some time we may need to pass the urgent legislation which we thought was necessary during the Easter recess. We know that at times  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  acts precipitately, but Senate select committees take time and we may not have a month to wait. This mechanism could hold up necessary legislation.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is well known for taking precipitate actions and for taking revenge on people who annoy him. We found out this morning that  Mrs Rosina  Colless, one of four people appointed by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to the Aboriginal and Islanders Commission to advise the Government, was sacked without a reason being given. I suspect the reason was that last week she criticised the State Government over its actions at Aurukun. 
Rather sadly, this legislation has been introduced to protect people in a State of Australia against their own Government. The legislation is complex. It affects statutes of both this Parliament and the Queensland Parliament. Yet, in the absence of any evidence of urgency, the Government has introduced it without giving the people affected, the church, the Aboriginals or the Opposition, sufficient time to consider its ramifications. The normal parliamentary procedures in the other place and in this place have been short-circuited in order to push this legislation through. Grave doubts have been expressed by supporters of the Government as to the legal niceties of the Bill. Grave doubts have been expressed by the Aboriginal community and the Opposition as to the effectiveness of the Bill. It is for this reason that I believe the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt  to enable a proper study of the Bill and proper consultation with those affected by it should be supported. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to reports at the weekend that from 30,000 to 60,000 people are being removed from the unemployment benefit list as a result of the saturation investigation currently being conducted by the Department of Social Security. I ask the Minister: How many people have been removed from the unemployment benefit list in recent months and for what reasons? Is it true, as reports have stated, that the Department expects most of those people to be returned to the unemployment benefit list when investigations have finished? 
-I do not wish to keep the Senate for long. I am very conscious of the remarks made by  Senator Wright  this afternoon that one should speak only on important topics. I believe that this is an important topic. I wish to raise some matters which arise out of current charges being heard in Sydney involving the alleged fraudulent receipt of invalid pensions and sickness benefits. I am conscious of the fact that a court case is pending, and I have no desire to raise the specific charges or the possible outcome of the hearings, although I must say that some of the reporting in some sections of the Press has not shown the same regard for the problems that arise. 
It is unfortunate that this case has been associated with just one community, namely, the Greek community. It may be that a person or persons unknown took advantage of the fact that there are many people of Greek descent whose English is inadequate and whose knowledge of our laws and our ways is scanty. In this case members of the Greek community were responsible for the situation coming to the public eye, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said in answers to questions in this place. In doing so, the Greek community showed the sense of responsibility that it normally shows in our community. The matters which I wish to raise involve firstly a concern for the appearance that the alleged fraud in this case was not detected early; and, secondly, a concern expressed also by representatives of the Greek community that differences in language and bureaucratic systems may cause injustices not only now but also in future cases. 
I believe that the concern amongst many sections of the migrant community is such that it probably warrants a detailed statement to the Parliament by the Minister. The court cases involve numbers of people in the Greek community allegedly receiving invalid pensions and sickness benefits, in each case for specific disorders, namely, psychiatric illnesses. In some cases it is alleged that they have been taking advantage of the portability provisions of the Act to receive the benefits overseas. The matter of alleged payments to persons to assist others to receive such benefits and pensions also arises. There are several points I should like to make. It would seem that in every case the pensions and benefits were paid initially in Sydney. It would seem that the districts of Sydney where the people receiving the benefits lived were very close together in the inner western suburbs. We often hear from the Government and from people in the community of the need to watch carefully the payment of all social security benefits to ensure that the taxpayer is not ripped off. For instance, that is the justification for the current investigations of unemployment beneficiaries throughout the country and the reason for a close watch being kept over the last two years on the recipients of the supporting mother's benefit. 
The Opposition shares the view that people should not obtain fraudulently or rip off, to use the common parlance, social security benefits in this country. In this case, when we became aware of the investigations leading up to the present situation and of the possible scale of the alleged offences, we co-operated to ensure that the course of justice was not interfered with. I believe it is important that the fraudulent receipt of pensions be prevented. Difficult though that is with our complex system of social security and the staff problems that occur frequently in the Department of Social Security, questions arise out of the present case suggesting that more could have been done either to detect the situation earlier or to prevent it. We are told unofficially, and in the Press frequently, that this practice has been going on for some seven years, and I believe that is a matter that needs to be cleared up by the Minister. 
As I said, those allegedly involved are all from one region of Sydney. They are all of the same ethnic origin and they all allegedly suffered from psychiatric-type illnesses. They were all dealt with by a small group of medical practitioners and clinical psychologists in Sydney. Relative to the massive amount of unemployment benefits and pensions paid in the community, the amount of sickness benefits and invalid pensions involved in this case is quite small. One would have expected that the investigation officers whose task it was to keep an eye on payments would have been alerted by a pattern of benefit payments of this type. It is reasonable to expect that any profile of those receiving benefits would have shown unusual concentrations of these groups and that those suspected of fault would have been picked up much earlier. I may be wrong, but I would like some clarification of that. I believe that that is a reasonable expectation when we are paying out large amounts of money, and I should like to know why it was necessary for members of the community to bring this information to light. 
I have made that point quite clear by using the word 'alleged', but I think it is important to bring it up, despite the pending action. The second matter I wish to raise is that the number of people receiving portable invalid pensions in Greece seems, on the face of it and if one compares the figures, to be disproportionate to the numbers in other large migrant groups such as Italians, Yugoslavians, or people from the United Kingdom. Certainly there could be other reasons for that difference, but I think that should have flagged the possibility that the group should be investigated much earlier than it was. It seems to me that the increase in payments made to Greece over the last two years has been considerable. 
Dealing with the difficulty of a further source of possible detection, the officers of the Commonwealth Department of Health are charged with investigating claims for invalid pensions. Many of us have had difficulties in this area because of the fairly rigid restrictions on invalid pensions. The officers are faced with migrant people with little English who suffer from psychiatric disorders and therefore have no physical signs to speak of but have a certificate from a specialist. I can understand that those officers might rely largely on the certificate because they have little to go on as a result of physical or medical examinations. But when one looks at this case one cannot help but be impressed by the high incidence of people from one area and one community of Sydney, and one wonders why this group of beneficiaries was not detected earlier. All these questions have been asked not only by me but also by responsible members of the Greek community, and I believe they deserve an answer. 
It has also been alleged in Press reports and in statements that payments were made of $1,000 for invalid pensions and $ 100 for sickness benefit certificates. Those reports may not be correct and I believe that if they are not then they should be corrected. But if payments of that magnitude were made it is hard to see how they would be considered worth while to the beneficiaries unless those beneficiaries were in fact earning other income. If a substantial number were earning other income then the routine procedures of the Department in at least some cases should have been able to pick up the fact that they were employed. After all, it is routine procedure that the Department contacts the employer to see whether a person is in fact working. From those few facts it seems that some overview of the situation by the officers of the Department of Social Security and /or the officers of the Department of Health should have detected the problem earlier, and I believe that the Parliament is entitled to a detailed statement from the Minister as to why the situation existed for so long without detection and what is being done to correct it in the future. 
The second point I wish to raise, which also concerns the community involved, deals with the question of justice for those migrants who in future may surfer from such disorders, or in fact from any disorders that may entitle them to sickness or invalid pensions. In some overseas countries, including Greece, Turkey, and many of the Asian countries, the practice is followed of employing a go-between- in Greece I understand he is called a mesazon- to assist in dealing with the bureaucracy in such things as passports, permits and social security benefits. The service is paid for, and I am told by responsible people that in Greece it is a standard practice. In some other countries the payment of bribes is accepted as normal. It is not difficult to imagine that migrants from countries such as those, migrants whom we attracted as a matter of deliberate government policy, who have a poor grasp of the language and little or no knowledge of our customs or our bureaucracy, believe that the same sort of situation applies here. It is even more likely that they could be convinced by those who are wise in our ways and who know their ways that the same practice applies. Such migrants can be misled and caught up in a situation they do not understand. Our provision of foreign language speaking welfare workers, interpreters and welfare rights officers has been notoriously inadequate in the past in relation to dealing with migrants, especially when compared with the situation in some overseas countries. That comment applies not only to the present Government but also to previous governments going back for many years. I seek an assurance from the Minister that that possibility has been considered carefully by the Government and by the authorities in the prosecution of these cases. 
There is considerable disquiet amongst the Greek community, which may or may not be justified, over the methods used by the Commonwealth Police in arresting alleged offenders in mass raids and weekend raids, methods that it is suggested are normally used in security or criminal cases. Another matter relates to the nature of the charges. Questions have been raised as to why the people involved- not the principals but the ordinary offenders- have been charged with conspiracy rather than with defrauding the Department of Social Security. As a non-lawyer, 1 am uncertain as to the reasons for that. The lawyers who represent the Greek community also are uncertain and suggest that this method of charging individuals may make defence difficult and more confusing for the defendants and their representatives. 
-I accept that,  Senator Wright.  I just do not know the details myself. I raise it as a matter of importance. Migrants have considerable difficulty in assimilating and adjusting to conditions in this country. As I said before, we have not always been as helpful as we should have been. Surveys have suggested that some psychiatric disorders are more common in migrant communities as a result of the problems they have. In the past they have been subject to the depredations of all sorts of racketeers- more recently to insurance rip-offs, rent rackets and payments to obtain work. Unfortunately some of these people have been preyed upon by those who take advantage of their difficulties, and sometimes it is by their fellow migrants. 
The alleged frauds at present in the newsthey have been considerably in the news and I suggest that the standard of reporting has been variable and at times very hurtful to the communityhave raised a lot of trouble and raised the worry that similar rackets may occur and similarly innocent people may be involved in episodes in other communities. Therefore I believe that I am justified in asking the Minister for Social Security to make- not necessarily tonight- a detailed statement on why there has been such a delay apparently in the investigations and what is to be done in the future. We also need reassurance that the full ramifications of the case involving possibly innocent migrants are understood by the Government and by those dealing with the people involved, and that where necessary help will be provided to them by way of interpreters and legal aid. The publicity given to the case requires that a clear explanation of the events is given not only to ensure that justice is done to both the taxpayer and the individual migrant but also to assist the community in understanding the difficulties which the Greek community is having in the present case. Finally, it is necessary to avoid any xenophobic reaction which may result from the wide Press publicity that has been given. 
-I draw the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to an advertisement on page 23 of the  Australian Financial Review  this morning which states that 100 per cent of people in the Australian Capital Territory earning more than $20,000 a year read the  Canberra Times.  In view of the Minister's repeated statement in the Senate that he never reads the newspapers- and we know that as a Minister he would never lie to the Senate- will he draw to the attention of the advertisers the desirability of truth in advertising and that the percentage, at best, is only 99.999 per cent? 
I do not wish to delay the Senate on this legislation. As has been said before, it is more in the nature of a machinery Bill. It enables the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to borrow moneys for promotional purposes to meet costs at peak promotional times. In the past, at these times the Corporation has had liquidity problems because of the uneven nature of its income from the levies to which  Senator Walters  has been referring. This is a commonsense provision and, of course, we support it. The apple industry, so prominent in my home State, has had considerable difficulties over the years and, as  Senator Wright  indicated by interjection, is certainly not out of the woods yet and it is certainly not the industry that it was in the past. 
I think it is worth while commenting in passing, in view of some of the remarks that are sometimes made and that have been made in this debate, that the apple industry has been in some difficulties, on and off, for a considerable time. When I first worked in an apple growing area in the Huon a little more than 10 years ago, when the large bush fires swept through that area of southern Tasmania in February 1967, it was commonly said by many of the local apple growers that that fire would be a blessing in disguise to many of the small and uneconomical apple growers in the district at the time. It would enable them, with compensation and other assistance, to leave the industry more easily. 
For many years we had marketing difficulties in Tasmania. These difficulties were created by bad crops and off years, as we always have had and always will have, by the variability of markets, difficulties created increasingly by protection in other countries and by increased production in many countries. It must be admitted-it is certainly admitted by all reasonable men in the apple industry- that we had difficulties also because of the failure of the industry and the producers themselves to come together in a reasonable marketing scheme with single labelling and uniform preparation of the crop for marketing. This was needed to compete with apples from countries such as South Africa and New Zealand. It always surprised me when I was in England as far back as 1955 and 1956 that one could buy South African apples or New Zealand apples under one label. Yet at that time there was a multiplicity of labels on apples from Tasmania. This was complained about continually in the English market. 
The difficulties of the industry are not new. They have been aggravated also by very real transport problems, including the failure to coordinate transport in the way that New Zealand has at times. We also have difficulties on the wharves and in getting ships off at the right time to the right places. The tree pull scheme, which was introduced in 1 97 1 or 1 972, is an example of the methods used to solve the problems of the industry over many years. I do not wish to delay the Senate for a long time. But I wish to mention that it seems to me the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, despite the considerable criticism of it which was voiced at the time of its establishment in 1974, has done a pretty fair job in the circumstances. Certainly the outlook for pears seems to be all right, as  Senator Tehan  and other honourable senators from Victoria have said. A few years ago, the outlook for pears was very bad. 
One hears reports from the Tasmanian Fruit Marketing Authority this year that the outlook for exports of apples to Scandinavia and at least one of the countries of the European Economic Community, despite its protective policies, is better than it has been. One hears predictions also that the English market will be better than it has been in past years. I hope that the efforts of the Corporation to extend markets, to promote apples and to encourage people to extend markets beyond the traditional markets will be successful. I am glad that by and large the producers who were so critical of the setting up of the Corporation at the time certainly seem to have accepted it as an authority and have accepted the work it has done. 
My main reason for rising in the debate this afternoon was to speak on a subject about which  Senator Wriedt  spoke. I did not realise that he intended to mention the same subject. It could be imagined from listening to people from various regions of Tasmania that we are having a pretty good season for apples in Tasmania. That may apply in some areas. But certainly it does not apply to the area in which I live. In view of the remarks of some honourable members in the other place, it seems that one has to justify one's ability to speak on apples. I point out that the honourable member for Wilmot,  Mr Burr,  and I live right in amongst the apple orchards in a very large apple producing area. The harvest in our area this year has been devastated by frost and later again by hail. The second largest producing area of export apples in the north of the State will have no marketable crop. Other producers have had their crop reduced by 15 to 20 per cent below normal. The simple fact is, as  Senator Wriedt  says, that the voluntary insurance scheme to cope with this situation is inadequate at the moment. 
We must look at more adequate and better insurance schemes to cover this industry which is so prone to the elements. Any frost, hail, drought or excessive rain knocks apples around. As the number of apple producers has decreased so greatly in the last 10 years, and particularly in the last seven years, the basic crop does not have much reserve these days. We have a situation this year in which the producers in some areas may not be able to reach anywhere near the export quotas they were expected to reach to make up Tasmania's export crop. They need to have available to them a compensation insurance scheme which adequately compensates them in times of trouble so that they can keep going and which adequately covers them for their labour in the same way that people in other industries are covered by similar schemes in the case of accidents they cannot avoid. 
I would add to the plea of  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Walters  a request to the Government to look at the proposals that have been put forward by apple and pear producers, particularly in Tasmania, so that they can have some protection in unforeseen circumstances like the ones I have mentioned. I hope that the Corporation with its new extended activities- I believe that it is shortly to extend further its activities in promotion and marketing- will bring continued progress in the establishment of an orderly marketing scheme for apples. I hope that we will see a stabilisation of the industry in the future. Along with all other honourable senators present, particularly those from Tasmania, I would like to see an extension of the industry. But from the predictions we have, it seems that no more than a limited expansion will be helpful. 
Finally I urge the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  as the Opposition did on the last occasion such a Bill was before the Senate and as I believe  Senator Walters  implied on this occasion, to resist the efforts of his colleagues in the National Country Party to somehow undo the good that the freight equalisation scheme has done for the export and marketing of Tasmanian apples on the mainland. I notice that again in the debate in the other House some disquiet was expressed by honourable members of the National Country Party. They claimed that the scheme gave an advantage to Tasmanian apples being marketed on the mainland. It is up to all of us to keep reminding the Minister that the industry is worth preserving and looking after. I do not mind being parochial like the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and  Senator Walters  and saying that we really believe the people on the mainland should have the benefits of our product. (  Quorum formed). 
I am interested in what was apparently a slip made by  Senator Harradine  in his personal explanation when he said that he located the office of his union in Launceston. I am interested that the union apparently is  Senator Harradine  's property and that the other members did not have a say in that issue. 
Tonight we are debating a Bill to establish an important national educational institution, that is the Australian Maritime College. I remember that when the original Australian Maritime College Bill was debated, in 1976, the only two speakers in the second reading debate were me and  Senator Rae,  with  Senator Harradine  making a short contribution in the Committee stage concerning the unions. I am interested tonight that the number of speakers has increased and I am especially heartened to see that some people from Hobart, the capital of Tasmania, have overcome their difficulties and are now willing to join in the debate on the establishment of the Australian Maritime College even though they apparently cannot avoid the odd crack about where it is to be sited. I welcome this new-found interest because the College will be an important national institution and will remain so. It will develop into an important educational institution in Australia and- I believe  Senator Rae  was right when he said it- in the world. I had hoped that the debate would not degenerate into a cat and dog fight between senators from the northern part and senators from the southern part of the island. 
I do not pretend to have an ability in the nautical sphere, like the two previous speakers,  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Wright  but I have had a considerable interest in this topic since I first was elected to this Parliament and in fact before then. I remember the interesting battles we had, which I think were described in the last speech, on the educational establishment with people from other States and sometimes people from our State as to the best site.  Senator Rae  's description of the history of the establishment of the Australian Maritime College and its siting was interesting but I think it is worth explaining the time-scale a little more. It is also worth making one minor correction. The potential for such a college has long been suggested and indeed I remember that it was mentioned in speeches by the Honourable Kim Beazley, a former Minister for Education, in about 1955 and by  Mr Whitlam  in the 1 960s. Of course it was the Labor Government that set up the commission, headed by  Mr Summers,  into the training requirements of seagoing personnel.  Mr Summers  brought down his report, which is succinct, very well written and quite clear in its recommendations. As  Senator Rae  has said, the Liberal Party announced early in 1 975 that it would consider Launceston as the site. One wonders what investigations it conducted in selecting that site. The Labor Party announced the site of Launceston in fact before  Mr Barnard  resigned and before the Bass by-election; but I believe that is a minor point. 
I think it is worth pointing out to  Senator Wriedt  who made some comment on this aspect that in fact  Mr Summers  and those people who have considered the report agreed that the site required access to conditions of suitable weather, climatic and tidal changes which included navigational hazards both at sea and in an estuary and close proximity to an active port, the fishing industry, a population centre and a College of Advanced Education. As  Senator Rae  said, in all regards the Tamar Valley provides an ideal site for such an institution. An added bonus, of course, is the fact that the Valley will gain an industry. The Institute of Advanced Education will gain a nearby specialist school which will help utilise its facilities and assist in expansion. I understood  Senator Rae  to say in part of his description of the area that it is also free from pollution. I am afraid that even I, as one who lives in the area, can hardly consider the upper reaches of the Tamar free from pollution but then again the Derwent suffers from the same difficulties. 
This Bill which will establish the Maritime College as a corporate body will, in fact, establish the Council and its administrative functions. This will fulfil a long time need and provide us with an institution of a standard which we hope will rapidly become of world standard and which will provide our future mariners at all levels with the opportunity to train at home so that in future we will no longer have to import some 50 per cent of the officers in our merchant marine and in excess of 30 per cent of our crews from overseas. I hope that the College will become a centre of further education for mariners which is terribly important in these days of rapid technological advancement and the need to cope with the very real problems of going to sea. 
One aspect I wish to mention is the importance of this College and the appropriateness of the establishment of this College at a time when Australia is about to join other countries in this area and around the world in establishing a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. This will put us in partnership with other countries in the South Pacific area. If one looks at the map one will see that we will have, in partnership with these other countries, responsibility for the care and surveillance of the resources of a huge area of ocean and a huge area of seabed in the Southern Pacific. Many of our partners in this region are very small countries with small populations and very small economic resources which will be unable adequately to husband and survey this area, and to maintain a surveillance on activities in this area without assistance from richer nations such as Australia. Co-operation and assistance from Australia will be vital to prevent the resources of this region being devastated as they have been in the Northern Hemisphere. One hopes that we can prevent a recurrence of the extinction of the North Sea herring and the Canadian sardine happening to the pelagic fish in this area. One of the factors that will help us to do this will be our ability to train our own personnel to supervise and to exploit efficiently the resources of the area and to assist other countries in the surveillance of the area to ensure that this over exploitation does not occur. 
The declaration of the 200-mile exclusive economic zone has double-barrelled implications. It certainly gives the coastal country involved sovereign rights over the living resources of the seabed but it also confers upon that country an obligation to admit foreign vessels to exploit, in a controlled way, the resources of that area if the home nation cannot or will not utilise those areas. I was interested to note that the report entitled  The 200 mile Australian fishing zone,  dated November 1977, prepared by the working group established by the Australian Fisheries Council quoted Article 62 of the draft convention- the so-called informal composite negotiating text which emerged from the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and which Australia took part in drawing up. It is reported at page 1 1 of the document that the coastal state shall: 
. promote the objective of optimal utilisation of the living resources in the exclusive economic zone.  and further: 
Where the coastal State does not have the capacity to harvest the entire allowable catch, it shall . . . give other States access to the surplus of the allowable catch. 
This will be an increasing problem in this country. It is a problem in Tasmania, Victoria and other places at the moment in view of the fact that many large foreign shipping nations like Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Poland- we know that the Taiwanese are very interested at the moment- which have declared a 200-mile exclusive economic zone wish to join in fishing operations in this area. These people have the capacity to exploit and, in fact, denude our fishing zones of their resources. As  Senator Rae  said, although we have rich resources in these areas they are generally, because of the narrowness of our continental shelf and because of the migratory nature of many of the fish there, they are not, in fact, as rich as many of the Northern Hemisphere areas were and must be carefully husbanded. I hope that the training available at the Maritime College will provide us with a greater ability to husband those resources. If proposals which have been put to this House to develop a coastguard or, as has alternatively been suggested, that the Navy should be used for this sort of surveillance are accepted, the training available at the Maritime College will be able to assist those bodies in looking after this area. As I said, many of the varieties of fish in this area are highly migratory and if we do not exploit them other countries in the world will demand to do so. If we do not assist the small countries like Nauru and the Gilbert and Ellice Islands to protect the areas in the Southern Pacific they will be exploited as will be the rich krill fishing grounds of the Antarctic which are areas close to our shores that we may in future wish to exploit. 
But fish are not the only resources of the sea or the seabed itself which are important to us. Offshore oil is important to our future energy resources and the men who crew the ships and the tugs to establish off-shore wells can be trained and further educated at the Maritime College. Mineral mining on the seabed is becoming more frequent and obviously as the world's resources decrease there will be greater need for minerals. At present the United States and other countries are indulging extensively in the mining of manganese from the seabed and we must be prepared to join in when necessary. The men who man the specialised ships involved with mineral and oil exploration should come from our own country if possible. With regard to the Bill itself, it would seem that it provides the standard corporate structure of similar colleges but there are some minor points which I wish to see clarified and to which I will refer in the Committee stage. I hope that the Government recognises the need to draw from as wide a group as possible or as is feasible in making its decision on the makeup of the Council.  Senator Harradine  mentioned some unions and associations which he thought could be represented. I noticed that some of them were. I hope that we do not have a Council which merely mouths the government line but which acts as a truly autonomous council. Certainly the Interim Council has done that. It has always been intended that the College would educate all levels of seagoing personnel and I believe that the Council should recognise that representatives of unions and associations of people who will graduate into our maritime service should be represented. 
Having said that, I wish the new Council well. I wish Captain Waters well in his development of the College. I congratulate the Interim Council for the work that it has done. I certainly shall retain a watching brief to see that the Government continues to provide the stimulus and necessary funding to facilitate the establishment of this most important institution- an institution, 
I might add, which I believe is sited in the right place, is very necessary and will greatly enhance the future of our maritime industry. 
I wish to make a brief comment in respect of clause 6. 1 do not wish to delay the Committee. Clause 6 states: 
The seat of the College shall be al, or in the vicinity of, Launceston in the State of Tasmania. 
I wish to put on record something that I referred to in a debate on the previous Maritime College Bill in 1976 and to correct an impression which I believe has been given in at least one speech during the second reading debate. I refer to the siting of the College at Launceston. When  Mr Summers'  report was first presented it seemed that a likely site for the College would be in Tasmania. For many years, a former distinguished Minister for Education, the Honourable Kim Beazley, had proposed that Tasmania was an ideal place for tertiary institutions and for educational institutions generally. He was a great advocate of the proposition that this Maritime College would be ideally situated in Tasmania. Since the Summers' report came out and long before I have spent a great deal of time in the advocacy of Launceston as the site for the College. The then Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam, agreed with this proposal and we had many meetings with people like Lance Barnard and Justin O 'Byrne who were great advocates for the site of the College being at Launceston. We had many meetings in Parliament House during 1974 and 1975. I know that the same sorts of meetings were taking place among members of Parliament who sit opposite. 
It was eventually decided by the Government -not by any individual on our behalf- that the site should be at Launceston. I will concede that it had been decided previously by the present Government parties that the site should be at Launceston. This fact was made known in the Press in Tasmania and was certainly known by members on both sides of the Parliament well before the Bass by-election occurred and before any pre-selection for that election was made. The record shows that to be so. I was present at the time and know that to be so. I merely wish to put that on the record. 
I do not wish to drag into the political sphere the setting up of an important national institution such as this. I merely said what I did to put the record straight. The implications- in fact, the only interpretation I can make- of  Senator Harradine  's remarks last night were that the Australian Maritime College was sited at Launceston and that the site was chosen by the Australian Labor Party because of the pre-selection for the Bass by-election and the Bass by-election. I repeat my assertion- I cannot make  Senator Harradine  believe what I say- that the decision was made before then. The decision was common knowledge and was reported in the Press before that occasion. To suggest that the only reason this college was sited in Launceston was due to the Bass by-election or the result of a preselection for the Bass by-election was to besmirch the establishment of this institution which is an important institution and which, I believe, will be of great benefit to the people of this country. 
If  Senator Harradine  reads his speech he will find that he said it. Why did he bring it up? 
-I certainly share  Senator Lewis's  concern about the tenure of office of various people in tertiary institutions in this country. We have certainly adopted the British tradition of giving people in universities lifetime tenure. I understand that this does not apply so much in colleges of advanced education. Rather than being concerned to write into this legislation and, I assume, every future piece of legislation setting up any sort of college strict views on tenure, I wonder whether the Government has considered introducing guidelines to councils, by legislation or other means, as to the views of the Parliament and the Government on what is reasonable tenure in universities. There is a very different situation in American universities in general and a very different attitude to tenure than the one we have inherited from British tradition. I think it is important that we do not allow councils of this type to give people lifetime tenure as has happened in many of our universities. 
I come in on a slightly different tack to  Senator Rae  on this clause, although I can understand his query. I can imagine that at some time a government may want to change its mind and to change the situation with respect to fees in a tertiary institution and to have the means by way of legislation to do so. It seems to me from reading this clause that the council, with the approval of the Minister, may determine that fees will be payable. Does this mean that any decision which the council makes to charge fees must have the approval of the Minister? Does this mean that if the council finds it necessary to charge service fees for some extra curricula activity or if it needs to charge sports union fees, which is common enough in universities, it must go to the Minister for approval to charge those fees? One wonders whether this is necessary in an institution such as this, in the same manner that  Senator Rae  referred to the role of the Minister in another way. 
-My concern is that we should not have a situation where the administration of a college such as this has to run to the Minister for absolute trivia. I suppose it gets down to a definition of fees. I pay fees at my child's state high school for book loans and that sort of thing. 
Yes, that sort of thing. Does this clause bind the Council or the administration of the College to run to the Minister for permission to charge that sort of fee? I would be very concerned if that were so. 
-I thank Senate Rae for detecting something in the Bill which I and others certainly did not detect. As a former member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts and being aware of the necessity for institutions such as the Tertiary Education Commission to be responsible to the Parliament either directly or indirectly through the sorts of committees we have set up, I too query whether this sort of innovation- I believe it is an innovation- is a good thing. I hope, having experience of the investigation of the activities of some statutory corporations, that we are not setting up a situation of confusion here and even giving people a let-out for proper accountability to this Parliament by enabling them to say, 'But the Minister for Finance agreed to this. The Minister for Finance said that we should do this', and creating great difficulties in our ability to make institutions such as this accountable to the Parliament. 
-This institution, through the Tertiary Education Commission, is responsible to the Parliament for the expenditure of its funds. I believe that the appropriate body to determine the form in which it should report the expenditure of those funds is through this Parliament- if necessary through the officer of this Parliament, the AuditorGeneral. Without getting anecdotal, I too was involved in an investigation by the Public Accounts Committee of a body which was responsible for the expenditure of funds given to it by this Parliament. The accounting responsibility was given to a tertiary institution and what happened was that no accounts were kept because there was no clear direction. Such institutions are responsible to the Parliament. The officer of the Parliament concerned in this case is the AuditorGeneral. I suggest that if anyone should be giving directions as to the form in which the accounts should be kept, apart from the Parliament, it should be the officer of the Parliamentthe Auditor-General- and not the Minister for Finance, or we will end up in the situation to which  Senator Rae  referred. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and follows a question asked earlier in the week. Can she inform the Senate of the number of persons who had their unemployment benefits terminated during the investigation by field officers commencing on 8 February, in which they concentrated on unemployment benefit? Can she give us the reasons why payment of this benefit was terminated? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) How many successful prosecutions were launched for unemployment benefit fraud in 1976 and 1977. 
How many successful prosecutions have been launched for fraud in other pensions and benefits paid by the Department. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the alleged social security frauds which are currently the subject of court cases in Sydney. How many people have been charged with conspiracy to defraud the Commonwealth? How many benefit payments or pension payments have been suspended as a result of these investigations? Is the prediction of Inspector Thomas on 3 April, the day the charges were first laid, that 1000 people would be charged, likely to be fulfilled? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs within the last three years engaged the Institute of Cultural Affairs as a consultant. 
Has the Department in any other way been associated with the Institute as a client. 
If so, will the Minister supply details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Have changes in staffing standards in nursing homes been made since the introduction of deficit financing under the provisions of the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1 974. 
It is for several reasons that I raise this matter of public importance, namely, the damage to the community relations and the reputation of our system of justice resulting from the conduct of the authorities in the alleged social security frauds in Sydney. The proposal is worded in this broad way because we believe that many problems have arisen out of this scandal which began one month ago. We believe that there is a section of the community which is concerned that it has been treated in a discriminatory manner and has not received justice in the sense that it has been accused of being guilty rather than presumed to be innocent. It has been concerned about how it will be treated in the future. We believe it is time that the Government, through its Ministers, made a detailed statement to this Parliament and that this Parliament has the right to debate the circumstances which have arisen. 
I shall briefly go through the history of the matter. On Friday, 3 1 March, and on the weekend, 1 and 2 April this year, 83 people, including five doctors and four people who were described as recruiting agents, were arrested and charged in Sydney with conspiracy to defraud the Commonwealth by wrongfully obtaining sickness benefits and invalid pensions. Since that time there have been further arrests and at the moment we believe that the number charged with conspiracy has increased to 176 people. In addition it has been reported that approximately 1,000 or more people are involved. In the  Age  of 4 April 1978, Chief Inspector Don Thomas, the police officer in charge of the case, is quoted as saying outside the Central Court of Petty Sessions in Sydney that the police had identified more than 1,000 people involved in the alleged conspiracy' and that 'hopefully all 1,000 of these people will be charged'. Almost all those charged are of Greek descent. 
On 19 April 1978 the Director-General of the Department of Social Security reportedly told Miss Isabel Lukas, who is the ethnic reporter for the  Sydney Morning Herald,  that more than 500 people of Greek origin had had their pensions or benefits suspended pending investigation. At a meeting called by the Greek Orthodox community held in Paddington on 20 April 1 978, the Acting Director of the New South Wales Branch of the Department of Social Security told those present that some 500 or more people had had their benefits suspended, that they had been notified in writing in English and that, in any case of hardship resulting from this, the Department would sympathetically consider restoring the benefit or pension. 
As is well known, the arrests and the charges did not come as a surprise to many honourable senators on both sides of this chamber, or to many members of the Greek community itself. It is not suggested by the Opposition or by the Greek community that there is no justification for any of the charges or the investigations, and I make no comment on the guilt or innocence of those who have been charged. Of course, that matter should be left to the courts. The Opposition knew there would be investigations and we on this side avoided comment because we did not want to interfere with the course of justice. However, aspects of the case, aspects of the conduct of the investigations and consequent events have caused considerable disquiet not only in the Greek community but also in the ethnic community in general and amongst concerned people in the community at large. The Opposition believes that these expressions of concern have not been answered by the Government or by any Minister of the Government. The matters of concern do not come under the heading of matters sub judice and I believe they should be answered in this Parliament, because it is important that justice is seen to be done, that hardship is not occurring and that the situation of people not born in Australia being treated as secondclass citizens should not be created or, if already created, should be eradicated. 
It is now one month since the case first reached the public eye. How many more people will be arrested we do not know. But there is a situation of uncertainty in the community which needs clearing up. I along with all members of the Opposition, and I am sure all other members of this Parliament, have no sympathy for anybody who would exploit our social security system illegally. Equally we seek assurance that in the pursuit of such offenders- such people who illegally use our social security system- innocent people will not be affected directly or indirectly. I believe it is obvious that there is disquiet in the community. Two large meetings of members of the Greek community have been held to express their uneasiness at the situation. Spokesmen, including  His  Eminence Archbishop Stylianos and welfare workers in the community have expressed their concern about effects on individuals in the community. The Ethnic Communities Council, representing some 200 or 300 organisations, has written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to ensure that he is aware of the fact that people are being considered guilty by the Department and by the Government before being convicted. 
It is time that a statement was made to the community at large through this Parliament, answering the questions raised and explaining some of the events which have occurred. The first big question to be answered concerns the events preceding the arrests and the charges that were laid. We were told when I raised this matter in the Parliament previously that the alleged conspiracy occurred in 1976 and 1977 and may, in fact, go back to 1971. We were told by the Minister that members of the Greek community informed the Department and the Commonwealth Police of what was happening and initiated this investigation. 
The first question is: How did a conspiracy of this size which, according to the Inspector concerned, involved more than 1,000 people who were largely members of one community in one section of a city, and which involved a handful of medical practitioners, concerning psychiatric illness and, allegedly, a large number of portable pensions, go undetected by officers of the Department of Social Security and the Department of Health? What steps to prevent further abuses were taken when members of the community informed the Department of what was happening? It is inconceivable to me and the Opposition that if any reasonable review procedures of the number of people receiving various pensions and benefits in the community were in existence these alleged people were not detected. What sort of review procedures existed then? What review procedures exist now? If they exist now, are they adequate to cope with alleged conspiracies of this type? 
I now refer to the events which led up to the arrests. We are dealing with a group of people many of whom do not have a good knowledge of English and who have very little knowledge of our social security system and our system of justice. Their own country has a tradition of using a paid go-between when dealing with the bureaucracy. A further factor may be that for a time civil liberties were recently suspended in their own country. It was reported- to my knowledge it has not been denied- that telephone tapping was used in this investigation. In this country we are reluctant to accept the use of such methods except in cases of national security and serious crime. It is my information that such methods were used. Why were they necessary? To what extent was telephone interception used? 
I turn to the arrests. Why was it necessary to make the arrests at the weekend? Why was it necessary to make them en masse on a couple of days early in the morning? Such tactics raise fears, not only in the Greek community but also in other communities in our country, of heavy police action.  Senator Ryan  will be dealing later with the Press coverage of this case. According to Press reports the raids on 3 1 March by the Commonwealth Police were made with Press accompaniment. According to the  Sun  newspaper in Sydney, observers accompanied the Commonwealth Police, saw their actions and reported on the arrests and on how people were taken from doctors' surgeries. We believe that that is unusual. We want to know under what circumstances the press accompanied the police in this way. We want to know whether they were informed by the police of what was going on. According to other reports, and reports in the  Sun  itself, the investigations and the lead-up to the arrests were made in great secrecy, with great care, to avoid alerting the people involved to what was going on. 
Allegations have been made by people who were arrested, by their lawyers and by responsible citizens, that houses and doctors' surgeries were entered by police who had no warrants. If they had warrants they did not show them. Allegations were also made that people were not informed of their rights. If they were informed they did not understand them and in many cases they did not know what was happening to them. If these allegations had been made by Australian born Anglo-Saxon, members of our community they would have caused a considerable furore and would have resulted in an investigation. Further allegations were made by responsible citizens that the interpreters available to the people who were arrested and under investigation were Commonwealth Police interpreters or Commonwealth employees and that those charged felt intimidated by the absence of independent interpreters when they were being questioned and asked to sign statements. In the regulations of the Department of Social SecurityI concede that this was a police investigation and not an investigation by the Department of Social Security- it is listed that where possible independent interpreters shall be used when taking statements from people suspected of misappropriating benefits or pensions from the Department. How typical is the experience of  Mr Michael  Horafios of 42 Watkin Street, Newtown in New South Wales, who is one of many people who have complained? He has written a letter to the Commonwealth Ombudsman. I am perfectly happy to table the letter after I read it. He wrote: 
Dear  Sir, 
Two days ago I had a very bad pain in my spine. I was on compensation for an injury at work which I received one and a half years ago. I went to my doctor for this pain. 
I arrived at the doctor's surgery at 9.30 a.m. The secretary said the doctor was not working. But in the surgery there were Commonwealth police who asked if I was receiving sick benefits. I answered I was because they could see my name on the files anyway. 
I gave them my doctor's, solicitor's and insurance papers as statement of my innocence of anything wrong. But they kept me in the surgery until 1 p.m. then took me to their office. I did not want to go but had no choice.. 
They asked me questions and took two photos of me. That concerns me because I am not a criminal. I must be sure that they will destroy those papers and photos. 
They asked me to sign the paper of questions and answers. That was alright because I told the truth. But they asked me to say I had no complaints (see Question 30) and was happy with the treatment. Of course I had complaints. I was not happy, but I was frightened of them (there were three police with me) so I signed that too. I do want to complain. I was held by them all day and then they made a record of me although I am an innocent man. 
I am very concerned about my sickness benefit because it is my only means of support. 
Please advise and help me. 
Thank you, 
MICK HORAFIOS 
That letter was dated 19 April 1978. I do not think there is any question, from investigations I have made, that  Mr Horafios  was held by the police from 9.30 in the morning until 5.30 in the afternoon. To my knowledge up until this morning he has not been charged with any offence. Many people were held for a long time and have not been charged in these circumstances. The letter raises a further complaint which has been made frequently by people involved in the case, that is that they were plucked out of the waiting rooms of doctors' surgeries. They were removed from the waiting rooms because they were of Greek descent or had Greek names while others sitting in the surgeries were left and were not investigated. Arising from this is the fact that doctors' records were seized from their files. An answer should be given as to who has had access to those files, what copies have been kept and where those files are now. The Australian Medical Association has expressed concern in this matter. 
The events as I have outlined them and the allegations made, which at least give the appearance of police discrimination, cause some concern as to the protection of civil liberties in our country. These concerns should have been answered by now by more than general statements about the worthiness of the Greek community and platitudes about our desire to help migrants. I believe that when people such as  His  Eminence Archbishop Stylianos express concern it is appropriate that a member of the Government, not a public servant, should visit  His  Eminence. It is my belief that it would have been more appropriate for a supporter of the Government, preferably a Minister, to have attended the large meeting of the Greek Orthodox community which was held in Paddington than for several public servants to attend, as happened. Those public servants were, of course, limited in what they could say and how they could handle some of the questions that would obviously arise. 
A further problem arises in this case in respect of the nature of the charges. I do not wish to speak at any length on this matter because I claim no legal expertise. The question of the use of the charge of conspiracy has been raised with me not only by lawyers in the Greek community but also by other experienced lawyers. The use of charges of this type has been frequently criticised by judges in our courts. As far back as 1930, which is as far back as I have been able to go, considerable criticism was made of the use of a conspiracy charge in cases such as the one we are now considering. The use of the term 'conspiracy' adds a further unfortunate aspect to the case because it has unfortunate connotations to people from Greece. The differences between the nature of a conspiracy charge in this country and the nature of a conspiracy charge in Greece have not been explained to or understood by the people in the Greek community. One can imagine the feelings of people in Greece reading in Greek newspapers that their relatives in Australia had been charged with conspiracy. That charge in that country implies conspiracy to overthrow the government. However, as I have said, that is a matter about which I am certainly not expert and into which I certainly cannot go in any depth. 
I turn to what has happened in the period since the charges were made. Hardship has arisen from the charges being made. That hardship has arisen not only in respect of those who were deprived of their benefits because they had been charged but also in respect of those who were deprived of their benefits pending investigation and before they had been charged. Archbishop Stylianos who is the Archbishop of the Greek Orthodox archdiocese of Australia, was given assurances by a senior representative of the Department of Social Security that members of his community would not be deprived of their benefits until charged. We have now been told by two senior officials of the Department that some 500 people have in fact been deprived of benefits pending investigation. They were informed by letters written in English that their benefits had been stopped. That was the first notification they received that their benefits had been stopped. The feeling in the community generally- not just in the Greek community- is that the Department has decided that citizens are guilty until proven innocent rather than innocent until proven guilty. This feeling is common among all ethnic groups and is the basis of a letter which has been written to the Prime Minister by the Ethnic Communities Council. 
We are faced with the very real problem of benefits being suspended pending investigation of the charges and of those benefits being suspended on the say-so of a list of names given by the Commonwealth Police. In my presence at meetings of the Greek community the Department has assured members of the Greek community that it will consider all cases of hardship which arise out of this procedure. I believe that the Department should actually consider matters of hardship before pensions or benefits are suspended. I believe that the Department is dealing with the matter the wrong way around. The review of cases of hardship is a slow and difficult process in a department which is very busy at times of high unemployment and great social problems as we have now. We believe that if assurances were given to the Archbishop they should be kept. We certainly believe that the Archbishop was given assurances. I accept that the Department has restored some benefits, even in a couple of cases to people who have been charged. But we have no idea of and have not been able to obtain any information about how many people have had their benefits restored. I repeat that the procedure is slow. Social workers in the Greek communities in the Marrickville and Redfern areas of Sydney have been flooded with work from people who have been caught up in this investigation and the suspension of benefits. The Smith Family, the St Vincent de Paul Society and other groups have had to render assistance to people who are suffering hardship and to destitute families. 
An unfortunate consequence of this case was that immediately after the blaze of publicity that arose, which all of us read in the Press and about which  Senator Ryan  will talk later, there was a reluctance and in many cases a refusal by doctors in some areas to see Greek patients or to issue them with sickness certificates. This situation still applies. Social workers assisting members of the Greek community have had to take patients to public hospitals and public health centres like the Marrickville Health Centre to ensure that they get treatment and service. For a time the public hospitals and health centres were the only places that would treat these people. On one occasion when I was with a group of social workers I was told that two of them had spent most of the morning finding out from local doctors who would see patients from the Greek communities and who would not. 
Problems have occurred of discrimination at work based on the publicity that was given to this case, as I am afraid they always will occur in such circumstances. We always have people in the community who are only too happy to discriminate against various ethnic groups for their own peculiar reasons. Discrimination has arisen out of the sort of publicity given to this case. One understands from reports that the Commissioner for Community Relations has had before him several such cases which he is investigating and on which he is to take action. All the time that this case has been going on there have been no statements of support from the Government, apart from the statement by  Mr MacKellar  and a couple of assurances that the Government cares about migrants. There has been no more than that. There was no visit to the community which could have reassured the people in the community and helped them in the difficulties they face. Anyone who talks to the leaders of the Greek community cannot help but be concerned about the obvious unease that is felt at all levels of the community. This unease has not been ameliorated by the exchanges that have taken place between the community and the Government representatives who have been sent along. The Archbishop stated quite clearly on a television program that he was not satisfied with the explanation he was given by the representatives of the community. 
I am certainly not suggesting and the members of the Greek community are not suggesting that all the allegations are correct. But I certainly have been impressed by the responsible and careful language used by those who have made those allegations. I have certainly seen evidence of hardship and examples of people obviously suffering disabilities from being left without pensions or benefits as a result of this situation. There is a distinct impression in the Greek community that its members have been put upon and singled out for special treatment. Nothing anyone has said has been able to relieve that feeling. There is evidence that the Greek community as a whole is suffering from the alleged actions of a few people. This feeling has arisen partly out of the unfortunate nature of some of the publicity this case has been given. But I believe it has been exacerbated by the failure of the Government to investigate the problems and to look at the difficulties which are obviously there. There is a feeling that the lack of response by the Government and the Department to the questions raised by the community illustrates a casual attitude at a time when it is believed that the Greek community has advanced a long way in getting acceptance in our multicultural society. 
What is the present situation? We know that 1 76 people- perhaps more- have been arrested. We have been told that 500 people or more have had their pensions suspended but that some benefits have been reinstated. We have no idea how many. We know that the officer in charge of the investigation predicted confidently that 1,000 arrests were likely to be made. He said that 1,000 people were involved yet, one month later to the day, only 176 people have been arrested. We know that doctors are refusing to treat people of Greek descent. We know that serious allegations and questions have been raised about the conduct of the authorities and the Commonwealth Police in this case. There is an uncertainty and an unease in the Greek community in all sections and at all levels. There are allegations and undoubtedly there are cases of discrimination occurring as a result of this case. What is happening in fact is that a group of citizens in our community have a genuine feeling that they are being put upon and that they are being discriminated against. When they came to this country they were told that we have a British system of justice which believes that people are innocent until they are proven guilty. Yet they have seen members of their own community lose benefits without being charged and without being investigated on the say so of a group other than the Department which gives those benefits and without consideration of what hardship that may bring. 
There are, of course, other aspects which have arisen and which will cause concern in the future. Members of other ethnic communities have expressed concern that they might be next. Is the Department going to go from one community to another investigating alleged rackets like this? Members of the Greek community, knowing of the prediction of 1,000 arrests, have waited a month for those arrests to be made, but they have not been made. They are, of course, on tenter-hooks and they have suffered disadvantages because of this case. We know very well that there is great difficulty and hardship in the community. One cannot but believe that the officers of the Minister's Department in New South Wales and the welfare workers in New South Wales have not informed her senior public servants of what is happening. 
It is a situation which cannot be allowed to go on. It is a situation which calls for the Government to investigate carefully the serious allegations that have been made, to review carefully the procedures of the Department and to review carefully the manner in which these people were investigated and arrests were made. It calls for a full statement to this Parliament of the details of the case from go to whoa. We call for a full statement on where we stand now and where the people in the Greek community stand so that their very real worries can be allayed and so that they, whether naturalised or not, can feel that they live in a country in which they will be treated on an equal footing with all other members of the community. 
I also wish to speak only briefly about this legislation. It seems that tonight there is considerable agreement on both sides of the House, as there seemed to be in the other House when this Bill was debated. I must express some amusement at  Senator Rae's  objection to the Opposition's amendment, which I support. Certainly the amendment just expresses an opinion. But one would have thought that the Senate was within its rights and the Opposition was within its rights, in expressing an opinion such as the one embodied in our amendment. Indeed I remember that in the days when I sat on the Government side of the House and  Senator Rae  sat on this side of the House this method of tacking on amendments to the motion that a Bill be now read a second time was frequently used. 
I do not say that we should delay this legislation by referring it to a committee of the Senate. I have no personal objection to such a committee as  Senator Rae  mentioned considering this legislation or the further planting of pine and other softwoods in this country, but I believe that it is important to pass the legislation, at least for its positive effects, and express our view to the Government on what it has not done. The positive part of the legislation, as described by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in his second reading speech, is to continue financial assistance for the tending and maintenance of softwood forests previously planted, with the assistance of the Government, in the States. That positive aim obviously is not objected to by anyone. 
-What is objected to, despite the Minister's hear, hear, is the decision to withdraw assistance for plantings for the immediate future and then presumably to look at it again and perhaps increase assistance later on. 
The proposal, as  Senator Rae  has said, will in fact discourage plantings for perhaps 5 years. Then, we assume, a resumption of plantings at revised levels will occur. The respective Ministers in both Houses, in their second reading speeches, said that the Government's decisions were based on the findings of the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on the Australian softwood products industry. That report attempts to analyse the supply and demand for forest products up to the year 2020. What we are in fact doing in a time of high unemployment, especially rural unemployment, is cutting back, limiting the growth, of one section of the forest industry. This decision is based on predictions of what will happen in the year 2020 on not only a national but also a global basis. This is the part which concerns me. We should look at this proposition and its implications very carefully. 
We should look equally carefully at the evidence which has been produced in this report and, in turn, has resulted in the Government's decision. Futurology is always an uncertain hobby, but I think everyone will agree that in the case of the agricultural, the rural, industries it is an extremely uncertain hobby. The inability to predict what will happen in two, three or four years time has been sufficiently demonstrated for us not to attempt to predict what will happen in the year 2020- especially when one considers that wars do occur, that natural disasters occur and that great economic dislocation occurs also. As  Senator Archer  has said, we have no real idea of what the future utilisation of wood will be, just as we have no idea of what substitutes will be found for other products. 
The amendment does not call for a massive increase in plantings, which some people would object to. It does not advocate the replacement of native hardwood forests with pine plantations. It does not advocate the substitution for hardwood reafforestation of softwood reafforestation. It just advocates the maintenance of the present level of plantings, which one would expect to be on cleared, marginal agricultural land. The doubts I wish to raise, revolve around the BAE report, which is not by any means accepted unanimously by experts in this field, by experts in the States. If I could briefly mention some of the difficulties which arise when one considers the report, the first conclusion, at page 127, which relates to supply and was, I believe, quoted by  Senator Archer,  is worth repeating. It reads as follows: 
A consideration of the economic indicators of scarcity and the limited data on world resources suggests that the case for a sustained shortage of wood in world-wide terms is unlikely but that short-term or regional shortages will probably continue to occur. 
We are talking about predictions for the year 2020. The key reference in the report is to this problem of the limited data that are available. Not only is the amount of information available limited, but quite frequently, that information when one considers the varying sources, is widely divergent in its levels, particularly in predictions of utilisation and production. The experts differ considerably, and when one looks at the data available one appreciates the difficulties that the BAE had in trying to bring out any sort of report at all. Often that data is quite contradictory. 
If I may give some brief examples- I have no wish to detain the Senate- turning to page 1 1 of the report, and the reference to the United States of America's regional supply and demand for wood, we find that that section speaks of the availability of softwood and hardwood roundwood and states that, in using various price projections, it is estimated that by the year 2000 the total annual demand for roundwood will be between 46 1 million and 63 1 million cubic metres, whilst supply will be about 551 million cubic metres. There is an extraordinary difference- in only that one country- between the estimate of 461 and 631 million cubic metres. If one cannot get any closer than that in one's predictions- and I have no reason to believe that anyone can- one is going to have considerable difficulty in reaching any sort of conclusions. 
Similarly, at pages 12 and 13 of the report, where the situation in Japan is considered, different authorities give their estimates of the degree of self-sufficiency that will be reached by and the import requirements of, Japan to the year 2020. 1 shall not go through the whole table that is provided, but one notes considerable differences between the estimates of experts using the same information and presumably, methods of calculation. Those estimates are so wide apart that it becomes difficult to understand how one can come to conclusions on the world scene. 
If the honourable senator is suggesting that a Senate committee of inquiry can do any better than can the BAE in this area, he may be very much mistaken. By the same token, why Government supporters object to the Senate expressing an opinion such as it would by adopting  Senator Mulvihill  's amendment, has not been made clear to me. 
On pages 12 and 14 of the report, the New Zealand situation is considered. The predictions for that country are said to be the best and most accurate in the world but, again, they are hedged about by warnings that land availability and environmental problems may militate against accuracy. It is also pointed out that Japan will continue to pressure Australia, as a competitor for New Zealand 's production, if we continue to rely on that market. On page 17, where the situation in Russia is considered, extraordinary differences are noted in even the estimates of softwood now available. Equally people have no idea in China, or most other countries, of what the real situation is. Russia was once considered to be the hope of the world as far as softwoods are concerned, yet now there are great differences of opinion concerning how much is available there. We have to look at both the global situation and the national situation. Most people think- reasonably- that we should be able to reach self-sufficiency in this area, and that without destroying our own hardwoods and making an ecological mess of this country. 
We have also to realise that, as Senators Rae and Walsh have mentioned, pine forests are replenishable and, if planted properly, are nonpolluting and developable assets with a wide margin of usable life. One is not looking at a product which will develop in 15, 20 or 35 years and must be used then. The usable life of that forest can be extended up to 50 years probably, at any time. Such forests are also subject to various pest infestations, to natural disasters and to the sort of root rot problems from which the jarrah forests are suffering in Western Australia. It is reasonable, therefore, that we make some sort of an estimate to take into account these disasters which may occur, which may interfere considerably with the future production of pine and which may interfere with our estimates, and with our supply situation. We should have some means of having a margin for error to account for this. 
The situation that this Bill will present means that the Federal Government will cease financial support for that part of the forestry industry which it previously supported. We will certainly have a cut-back in employment in this area because there is no real hope of State governments or private industry taking up this slack. One can also be concerned that if we have a further drop-off in employment in this industry- we have great difficulties with rural employment at the moment- we may have problems in five or 10 years' time when we wish to start plantings again. We may have problems in obtaining the skilled manpower which may be necessary. This may even flow over and affect our ability to maintain the forests that we have. 
I do not think any compelling evidence has been presented to convince me or anybody else on this side of the chamber why, in a time of economic difficulty such as this, we should cut back on this small amount of money and hence cut back on the amount of employment and development in the country. I am not impressed that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, strenuously as it has strived to do so, has been able to make predictions as far ahead as the year 2020. We are not dealing with a vast amount of timber; we are not dealing with a vast amount of money. We have unemployment problems and we have difficulties, yet we are cutting back on the development of a resource and we may well regret that in the future. It is for this reason that I support  Senator Mulvihill  's amendment. 
I repeat that I have no objection to a Senate committee looking at what we should be doing in this country for the future development of softwood forests. But I do not believe that a Senate committee can in a few months do sufficient to justify the rejection of the positive parts of this legislation- the supply of money to maintain the forests that exist now. It is for that reason that I prefer  Senator Mulvihill  's amendment. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 February, 1978: 
1 ) Has the Department of Social Security within the last three years engaged the Institute of Cultural Affairs as a consultant. 
Has the Department in any other way been associated with the Institute as a client. 
3 ) If so, will the Minister supply details. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February, 1978: 
1 ) What was the proportion of registrants for employment receiving unemployment benefits in each month of 1976 and 1977. 
What was the proportion of registrants (a) under 19 and (b) under 25, receiving unemployment benefits in each of those months. 
What proportion of Aboriginal registrants received benefits in each of those months. 
Is the Attorney-General aware of the expressed concern of the Law Society of Tasmania that the Australian Legal Aid Office in Tasmania has no further funds for the current month and no idea of how much more funds it will get for the current year? There is concern about the effect that that will have in frustrating the objectives of the Family Law Act in particular. I also ask the Attorney-General: Does this situation apply in any other State? What sort of funding will be available to the Australian Legal Aid Office for the rest of this year? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) Are unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries taxed on dependants' allowances. 
Are long-term sickness beneficiaries taxed on supplementary benefit. 
Are other pensioners and lone parents exempt from taxation on these allowances. 
Will the Government rectify this anomaly, in view of the fact that 20.6 weeks has now been officially stated as the average duration of unemployment. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to persons charged with alleged conspiracy in New South Wales who apply for special benefits on the ground of hardship. Is it a fact that the Department is requiring such people to produce records of interview with the police before such cases are considered? If those people refuse to produce such records of interview, is it a fact that the cases will not be considered? Is there not a danger that the Department may be seen to be judging evidence which more rightly should be judged in the courts? 
I do not wish to detain the Senate for long. I was tempted this evening to make a speech in the adjournment debate in praise of Queensland justice, in view of the fact that the Opposition Whip,  Senator Georges,  has returned to us unharmed and ungaoled. However, I have a more serious matter to raise. In the last couple of years I believe that all of us have faced problems as members of Parliament by being presented with cases concerning people who have difficulty with our system of unemployment benefits, and particularly with our system of appeals when such benefits are terminated. In many cases the problem arises because we have a very complex system, a system which people who may not have had a very good education, who may not be used to coping with the bureaucracy or who may be unemployed for various reasons, have difficulty in handling. 
I have often asked the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)-  I understand she is unable to be in the chamber to hear my speechwhether she will look at cases in general. I now ask her to look in particular at the case I bring forward tonight. I raise this case not because it is typical- in fact it is quite atypical- but because it demonstrates some of the problems that arise. The case involves a young woman named Kathryn McMillan who now lives at Geeveston in Tasmania. As I say, she is not a typical case. 
She is well educated and it is because of her education and her ability to realise what was happening and to put down in words what is happening to her that I think she is a good case to demonstrate some of the problems that might face some of the less articulate, less intelligent and less educated people who are often in this position. 
Miss McMillan left Sydney at the end of December last year. She had been unemployed and unable to get work for some four or five months. She was paid the unemployment benefit while in Sydney.  Her  nearest Commonwealth Employment Service office was at Redfern. There was no question that she was not eligible for the unemployment benefit. She was paid right up to the time she left Sydney, the last cheque being paid on 29 December 1977. She heard that she might be able to get work in Tasmania. This is something that I would not have thought possible at the time. Had she asked me I would not have advised her to go to Tasmania. But, as it turned out, she was able to get work there. Before she left Sydney she approached the office of the Department of Social Security in Redfern and asked whether her move to Tasmania would affect her entitlement to receive the unemployment benefit. She claims that she was told- I have no reason to believe otherwise- that if she registered at the CES office at the place to which she was going by 4 January, some seven days later, she would be eligible to receive the unemployment benefit. 
This is not the first time I have heard this sort of story. Many people who are moving from one area to another are told that if they register within a period; usually seven days, they will be eligible. I can find nothing from the Department of Social Security or in CES manuals to lead me to believe that people should be given this advice; but, in fact, obviously frequently they are. One hears the story too often for it to be a fabrication. She went to Tasmania and registered. She received her cheque in Sydney dated 29 December 1977 and the form necessary for the continuation of her benefit which was due to be submitted on 4 January 1978. She registered and she forwarded this form to the regional office in Burnie in northern Tasmania. She received back in the mail in the next two weeks numerous forms, including forms from the Professional Employment Service with which she had previously dealt in Sydney. She received no further cheques or notification until 9 February when she received a cheque for $98.60. However, a continuation form was not enclosed with the cheque. Therefore in the period 29 
December to 9 February she received two cheques- one on 29 December and one on 9 February. 
On 27 February she received a notice that her benefit had been terminated because it was said, she had moved to an area of low employment. This notification was dated 24 February. No notice or no notification was received about the missed payments- the payments she had not received in the meantime. On the same day she received a notice from the Professional Employment Service asking her to seek employment in the non-professional field. Obviously she was in some financial difficulty. She then wrote back to the Burnie office. She was living on the west coast of Tasmania. She sent a letter complaining of the treatment she had received and appealing against the decision. 
In fact, during the time she was on the west coast of Tasmania she was able to obtain parttime work. From the nature of the work she was performing, I believe she demonstrated her willingness to work. For instance, on one occasion she received some $49.50 and she received $48.50 for painting the local doctor's house. She was employed by the local council in street cleaning activities, and she received employment on a fishing boat, which is a rather unusual type of employment for a woman but not that unusual. She was to be employed on that type of work for a month and went to sea. But, as so often happens, she suffered such considerable seasickness that a couple of days later she had to be offloaded and she was returned to shore. She then moved from that area to southern Tasmania. Since then she has been in continuous employment in the apple picking district of Geeveston in southern Tasmania. I believe this demonstrates sufficiently that she was certainly able to work. 
In the meantime, not knowing what to do about her unemployment benefit, or her lack of unemployment benefit, and because of her nature, her education, and not being willing to lie down and take this sort of thing, she contacted the office of the Department of Social Security. Among other organisations she contacted the Unemployed Workers Union in Hobart which made some inquiries. It was found that her appeal had been forwarded to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal and that the letter of complaint she had written to Burnie, had also been forwarded as evidence to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. It was found also that she was not to be called to that Tribunal, nor was she to be allowed to have representation at that Tribunal hearing, as we know people are not. She did not know when the appeal would be considered by the Tribunal. She later received a letter from the Tribunal- as people do- saying that her appeal had not been upheld but, of course, no reasons were given for that decision. 
She presented the sorts of problems faced by many people who are not as articulate and not as intelligent as she is, and who cannot cope with the problem. Unless they see their local member or someone who can assist them, they get into great trouble. She has had no notification as to why she received no cheque from 29 December to 9 February. She received no notification initially as to why the payment of her benefit had been terminated, but on inquiry she discovered why. She appealed to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal but was unable to present her case. The only evidence which was presented from her was the letter she had sent to the Burnie office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I am aware, of course, that there is no compulsion on the Tribunal to hear people, although a person may insist- if that person knows about it- on appearing before the Tribunal. But there is no general rule covering cases like this. The Law Council of Australia has recommended that people should be heard in these cases. It has also recommended that detailed reasons should be given to people as to why their appeal is not upheld. 
We know that in the Repatriation Department, as a result of the Toose inquiry, people are now told why their appeal is not upheld or why a certain decision is made. That has resulted in a considerable diminution in the number of appeals that are made. I ask the Government to seriously consider this matter. The Minister has said that she intends to introduce a system under which those whose appeals are refused by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal will be able to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I think that in order to prevent the Administrative Appeals Tribunal being flooded the very least reform should provide that people be given reasons why the Social Security Appeals Tribunal does not uphold their cases. I believe it is a matter of common justice that an appeals tribunal set up by the Commonwealth should tell people why it does not uphold their appeals. 
This lady, through dint of much writing, the making of many inquiries and by going to people who could assist her eventually found out what was going on. But one can appreciate the difficulties of those who are not as forthright or as determined as she is. They get into a situation in which they are extremely confused and extremely frustrated by the system. Often they receive no unemployment benefits when they should. I think we have all dealt with cases where a few simple words from the member involved could in fact solve the problem which appeared insurmountable to someone who does not understand the system. 
I think it is important that certain reforms should be made. For example, I believe that people who have their benefits terminated should first of all be told quite clearly why those benefits are being terminated. They should always be told that they have a right of appeal. Obviously this does not always happen. One continually gets reports that people are not being told. One only needs to read papers like  Rough Justice  which is produced by the Brotherhood of St Laurence to see examples of this claim. Secondly, when they do appeal, I believe that they have a right to be heard. When the Social Security Appeals Tribunal decision is made, they have a right to know on what grounds their appeal was rejected. Thirdly, I believe anyone in this situation who have gone for six weeks without benefits and without explanation should be given an explanation. I believe that the appellant and the people who are coping with our social security system and our Commonwealth Employment Service system should have complete access to the manuals, the guidelines and the regulations under which this system is run. 
Finally, I go back to the first point I made. It seems that Miss McMillan was told that moving from Redfern to the west coast of Tasmania would not mean that she would lose her unemployment benefit. One hears too often of people who have been told by their home CES office that they will not lose their benefits if they take similar action, but when they get to the place to which they were moving, they are told that they have lost their unemployment benefits because they have moved to an area of low employment. As it happens, I doubt whether the rate of unemployment in the Redfern area of Sydney is lower than that of the west coast of Tasmania. 
There may in fact be arguments whether she did move to an area of low employment. But I believe that the information given by officers should be consistent so that people will know where they stand. They should have full information on how the system works and how they can appeal. I merely make the request that the Minister look at Miss McMillan's case in particular and at the whole structure of our appeals system and our unemployment benefits system to see whether they cannot be improved in times of such high unemployment. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: In view of media speculation and statements in the House concerning the system of portability of pensions, is she in a position to tell the Senate the Government's intentions in this regard? Is the system to remain the same, be reviewed, abolished or modified in any way? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether his department will this year produce an annual report. Further, has it produced an annual report in the last two years? If not, why not? 
by leave- I rise merely to associate the Opposition with the final remarks of  Senator Peter  Baume. In the time I have been a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare,  Senator Brown  and  Senator Tehan  have been very important members of that Committee,  Senator Brown  particularly because of his experience with previous committees. I believe the report of the Committee on drug abuse in this country was a very important report. It has been received as such in this country and overseas.  Senator Brown  and  Senator Tehan  made considerable contributions to that report. We wish them well in the future. 
-In speaking to the motion moved by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  I wish to make a few remarks on behalf of the Opposition on this important paper dealing with health care cost control which the Minister has delivered on behalf of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in another place. It is, in fact, a statement of intent which 1 believe will produce mixed reactions in anyone who reads it. There are two groups of proposals mooted in the statement. One affects the amount of money that patients will pay for their own health care out of their own pockets and the other announces a review, although in no real detail, of the provision of hospital facilities and diagnostic and other therapeutic facilities in this country. There is very little detail on the latter aspect but I will certainly comment on it later. The former aspect causes the Opposition considerable concern. 
Health care costs concern all of us. As the Minister said, they concern every Western country, probably every country in the world. It is difficult to see how the specific changes which the Minister has mentioned in this paper will change total health care costs in this country. They will certainly change the burden of health funding generally onto low income earners. The young, the fit and the wealthy will be advantaged and the amount appearing as Government expenditure may decrease. I submit that total health care costs will not decrease as a result of many of the more definite proposals in this document which affect patients. The Minister recognises this. When he tries to quantify the savings that he suggests may occur he states at page 16 of the statement that the estimated savings to Commonwealth expenditure- not total expenditurewill be some $24m. There will be considerable changes to the health expenditure of many deserving people in this community as a result of the proposed alterations. But the Minister states that the estimated savings to Commonwealth expenditure will be some $24m when in this country we spend something like $7,000m on health care. 
I am talking specifically about those proposals which affect the amount of money the patient spends and the division of that expenditure. The Minister states quite specifically at the end of that section that the estimated savings will be $24m. I will come to the other proposals later. As I said, the Minister is concerned about health care costs. We are all concerned about total health costs. No one has been more concerned about total health costs than the Australian Labor Party, when in government and in opposition. I wish to comment first on the figures used in the first 5 pages of this paper to assert that increasing health costs are the result of Labor's health policy. It is a political statement and deserves more than a political answer. It is a statement commonly bandied around. One of the reasons the community came to accept the need for universal health insurance was the rapid increases that were occurring in health care in this country not only in the 1 970s but also in the 1960s. The increases resulted in the Nimmo inquiry into health insurance funds. From 1967 to 1971, which was a period of low inflation, there was a 46 per cent increase in health costs. The continued rate of increase in the 1970s was due to inflation, burgeoning fees, increasing hospital costs largely caused by wage justice gained by nurses and other hospital employees and the increase in the use of sophisticated diagnostic techniques. 
In the year 1975-76, as will be shown by the Minister's figures, the rate of growth of these costs changed. The rate of acceleration decreased. It has decreased since. It is worth remembering that it was in July 1975 when Medibank, Labor's national health insurance scheme, started. It did not start in 1972, 1973 or 1974: It started in July 1975. The rapid acceleration of costs occurred until 1975 and then started to slow down. This is obvious even from the figures wrongly used by the Minister in describing health costs as a percentage of gross domestic product. Every reputable statistician would have deflated the gross domestic product figure to take account of the fact that gross domestic product at that stage was increasing at a very slow rate. Health costs were increasing at a fairly normal rate for that period and would have been deflated less or not deflated at all. This is why in the figures used health costs are excessively high compared with gross domesticproduct. 
Some comment is also worth making about the figures and tables supplied in the associated documents. Any reputable economist or expert on health care, anyone who produces articles on this subject, would first of all source his figures. Secondly, he would give the methodology used to compile those figures. These figures are without source. It is obvious to honourable senators on this side of the chamber where some of the figures came from. We can see them in other articles. But they are not sourced and we know where only some of them came from. They certainly do not correspond with figures given by other economists in the field or with those given by other statisticians and commentators who write on the subject. As I have said before in this place, if we are to compare figures like this it is important that they are investigated carefully. The source of the figures and the methodology used to compile them need to be known before they can be accepted and compared with other figures. 
The statement goes on to describe other methods the Government has used in an attempt to reduce health costs. I mention particularly the changes in the pathology charging system. Certainly the Opposition did not oppose these changes. I have commented in this place on the difficult situation which has arisen with regard .to pathology charges. I welcome and I know that doctors on both sides of the Parliament welcome the investigation into the proliferation and high cost of medical, diagnostic and therapeutical methods. Honourable senators have heard me and  Senator Baume  talk about this at various times. 
Always in agreement on this subject. That is unusual but it occurs at times. Of course we do not disagree about the attempts to cut down frauds and to prosecute people for defrauding Medibank. All these things affect medical practitioners themselves as does the review of hospital services to which the Minister also referred. Doctors admit patients to hospitals. Patients do not admit themselves. Doctors operate. They order pathology and other diagnostic tests. They buy the computerised axial tomography scanners and other diagnostic equipment which is adding enormously to costs. In the past they have resisted attempts to interfere with any decision in this area. I can imagine the barney that will occur when the definitions in the new system when it eventually comes into operation, if it ever does, require someone to decide who is having an authorised or unauthorised stay in hospital. This is referred to in the statement. 
The Minister set out the objectives of the Government's health policy. They are noble objectives. I suppose that they would be the objectives of anyone interested in the provision of health care in the community. There is very little in the statement and very little is anticipated which will affect any of these aims. The first aim is to promote and protect the health of all people. 
I believe that there is nothing in these provisions which will affect that aim at all. The second aim is to ensure that all people, regardless of their means, have access to high quality health care. I do not believe that the provisions in this statement to which I shall refer in a moment will provide that. In some cases they will militate against it. The next aim is to provide special protection for pensioners and low income groups with those on higher incomes insuring themselves to help pay for their health care. I will explain later that low income groups and pensioners will not be protected in the manner in which the Government says they will. Higher income groups may be able to insure themselves but, in fact, they will get off very lightly. The provisions certainly do nothing to help the next aim which is to promote preventive health care. The Minister gives no evidence how the best value for the taxpayer's dollar will be received from money spent on health care. I shall have more to say about minimising the abuse and over-use of services which is the final aim. Again, we cannot see how this will happen. 
The Minister set out these objectives and then talked about the specific issues, the nitty gritty, which will be controversial. The first thing that will happen is that bulk billing is to be abolished for all people except those with a pensioner health benefit card. This means that the only people who will be bulk billed will be old age pensioners and invalid pensioners who have a pensioner health benefit card. We are going back to the old pensioner medical service. Some people well remember that that service was also abused. It will again be abused but we should not throw out the baby with the bathwater the way we are doing with bulk billing because of a few people who are allegedly abusing it. We have no evidence that the abolition of bulk billing will save vast sums of money. The only evidence available, as has been pointed out by the experts, is that it may cost more. Administrative expenses will obviously rise for those people who are no longer bulk billed but who were previously bulk billed. The costs for the doctor in handing out bills will, of course, be increased. There is no evidence in the statement that the amount of abuse which will apparently be cut down by this action will counteract the increased administrative costs. 
According to the Health Insurance Commission report of 1976-77 some 56 per cent of all medical claims were bulk billed. They amounted to only 34.9 per cent of the value of all claims. The number of services per bulk billed claim was 1.28 compared with 2.2 services by other claims. 
Each service claimed by bulk billing averaged $8.80 compared with $1 1.50 for those on separate accounts. Bulk billing has been very useful to many doctors. It has been very useful to many patients. 
I am concerned about those doctors in underprivileged areas with a lot of low income patients who bulk billed because their patients were poor and because they had some concern for them. 
I shall also cover that point in a moment. None of the 60,000-odd supporting mothers in this country will be able to be bulk billed. None of the 300,000 or more unemployed peopled in this country will be bulk billed, nor will those in the community receiving sickness benefits and those receiving special benefits. There are  doctors-  admittedly they comprise only a small group- who practise in rural areas, who practise in small towns and who have large practice areas with many small population centres. These hard-working, long travelling and usually solo practitioners have found bulk billing of great benefit to them because it has removed the burden of the difficulties involved in sending out accounts to people spread all over the area of their practices. They have been willing to accept the 85 per cent payment. 
It is quite wrong to throw out bulk billing without producing any evidence that it was increasing the cost. There is no evidence of that in this statement. In fact, there is no evidence anywhere. There is evidence to the contrary, but there is no evidence that it increases costs. It is of no use just having a feeling that it increases costs and that it increases the abuses. Pensioners themselves will be bulk billed. In the past when pensioners were bulk billed there were abuses. The best way to prevent those abuses is to make certain they will be detected and to let those few who will abuse the system know that there is a certainty of detection. But to throw out the whole system just because someone has a feeling that it is bad, that it is wrong and that people will abuse it is quite a ridiculous way to go on. 
In talking about the introduction of front-end deductibles I wish to quote from a document of an organisation which I do not usually quote and which honourable senators do not often hear me quoting during debates on health insurance in this country. I will quote from the submission of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of 
Australia to the Government on Mediban changes. Quite succinctly it says: 
The Voluntary Health Insurance Association yesterday made public its submission to the Government detailing its opposition to front-end deductibles and no-claim bonuses. The submission said that these proposals would further complicate a health insurance scheme already too complex. Deductibles would react most against those who could least afford it. Clearly, a $50 amount means more to a lower income earner than to someone in the middle or upper income brackets. It would bc likely to cause some people to defer consultation with a doctor, often resulting in greater demands on services and consequently greater costs at a later stage. 
Anyone who is young and fit and probably under 45 years of age would be crazy not to go for front-end deductibles if he wanted private health insurance. 
If any fund offers them. One gathers from the statement that the Minister is likely to pressure them. One thinks it is likely that the Minister, claiming such a great saving, would introduce this system if he did not have some indication that in fact the health insurance funds would accept it. 

 - Mr Moon probably will not accept it, but some of the others will. If the health funds will not take it up, why is the Government introducing it? Obviously there are indications that a system of voluntary front-end deductibles will be introduced. As I have said, the fit, the young, the healthy and the wealthy would be crazy not to go for it. This will be a transfer of the responsibility for health funding from that group to the people who cannot afford to take on front-end deductibles, such as those who are unhealthy, those who have recurrent illnesses and those who have children with recurrent illnesses. There is no indication in this statement just what is going to happen in this area. If that $200, $ 100 or $50 front-end payment also is to be tax deductible- we certainly have no indication one way or the other- it will be an even greater help to those opting for front-end deductibles, who earn more than the average wage earner. The Minister says that the introduction of optional deductibles will lead to a reduction in medical and hospital insurance costs to those who choose to be privately insured in this manner. I say to the healthy, the wealthy, the young and the fit that that payment will inevitably be transferred to those who are less well off and to those who, because of the nature of their illness, will not be able to enter into this sort of an arrangement. 
As to widening the gap for health insurance, the gap concept was introduced not by the Labor Government but by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. The widening of this gap and the dropping of the percentage of the total benefit which will be paid to the doctor will have two effects. Of course, the amount of money which the individual patient will have to pay in addition to the rebate given by the health funds will increase. It will not be much of a problem for those who can afford it, such as those middle and upper income earners in the community. It will not be much of a problem to them at all. But to those low income people to whom relatively small amounts of money are considerable amounts of money it will be a problem. To those who receive unemployment benefit, to those who are supporting mothers and to those who receive special benefits and to those who do not have ready cash and who do not have much left over each week it will be a considerable problem. It will be a great amount of money to them. But we have the prediction of the Minister that there will be no difficulty in convincing the Australian Medical Association that in fact to accept 75 per cent of the scheduled fees is reasonable. 
Ninety-five per cent of the doctors already accept 85 per cent.  Senator Walters  should well remember the fight that  Mr Gorton  had, the fight that  Mr McMahon  had and the fight that the Labor Government had to get the AMA to agree to accept that percentage. For the AMA to accept 75 per cent of the schedule fees will mean an incredible change in attitude. It may happen. Many of us have our doubts that it will happen. It may, of course, happen in exchange for restricting the number of people who get pensioner health benefits, which was AMA policy many years ago. It said it would accept the lower percentage provided the number of people who got pensioner health benefit cards was kept at a reasonable level. 
The Government is proposing three moves. The removal of bulk billing will cause inconvenience to many doctors- decent doctors; doctors who do not cheat on the system; doctors who are concerned about their patients; country doctors who in many cases have practices in big areas and who have scattered surgeries; doctors like the one interviewed tonight from an inner city suburb of Melbourne who has many patients who are destitute. 
-He will have to bill them the difference.  Senator Walters  knows quite well the difference between bulk billing and getting a doctor pays' cheque. She knows quite well the difference in the cost of running a doctor's surgery resulting from bulk billing. She knows perfectly well and she should not pretend otherwise. 
I do not think that was asked of him. One can be sure that he was not one of those piranhas who are members of the Society of General Practitioners, which is in fact against all health insurance in the community. The introduction of front-end deductibles will affect the healthy, the young and the fit. These deductibles are not, as is described in the statement, some great, new imaginative plan. They have been talked about for years. Such a system has been used in the United States for years and has been under considerable criticism there. The widening of the insurance gap takes us back to the time before the Gorton Liberal Government- - not the Labor Government- introduced the gap concept as it was and as it now is. We have these changes but, I repeat, there are no indications that any of these changes will cut down total health costs. No evidence has been given to indicate that they will cut down on the number of services which the provider initiates. If they do cut down the number of services which the recipient initiates it will be because the recipients feel that they cannot afford to enter into medical care because of the increased costs. I submit that that is no way to decrease costs. 
We in the Australian Labor Party have been advocating for years the other proposals concerning the review of hospital services and the review of the appropriateness of our hospital services. We are a little concerned at the statement that long-stay patients in recognised hospitals should contribute towards their accommodation and care, as they would do if they were in nursing homes. In this country long-term patients are frequently old, frequently pensioners and frequently, if not pensioners, they are poor. One would be concerned to ensure that the introduction of any proposal such as that would be looked at carefully. Again, one would be concerned to ensure that the Government does not intend to cut down on total health costs by inflicting burdens on those people who can least afford them. 
We cannot see the three proposals making any difference to health costs; we can see them just spreading the burden to those people who can least afford it. I am fascinated by the concept indicated by way of interjection from  Senator Baume,  that health funds might not introduce front end deductibles. One wonders what the Government is about in introducing something like that when a knowledgable and senior medical man on the Government side questions whether the health funds will take this up. We shall watch the changes with interest. We shall be more interested in the details of the changes when they are in the form of legislation- that is, those changes which in fact are placed in that form. I make one final request, namely, that the figures produced in the associated documents be sourced and that we be told the methodology by which they were arrived at and that we know why they in fact differ from figures produced by other workers in the field. They might be right; they might be wrong: We want to know why there are differences. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978. 
What form of identification is sought by Department of Social Security Field Officers when investigating the legitimacy of claims to unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April, 1978: 
How many (a) single; and (b) married persons, received special benefit while on remand in 1 974, 1 975, 1 976 and 1977. 
) What was the cost of such payments in each year. 
What was the average duration of such payments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Is the service staff at Tullamarine Airport to be increased; if so, will the staff numbers at Tullamarine be increased by transferring staff from other centres. 
If so, from which centres will flight service staff be transferred. 
When was the flight service staff in the Victorian/Tasmanian Region last increased. 
What time is required to train flight service personnel from recruitment to operational standard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) To what extent has the flight service staff conducting the briefing service from Hobart Airport been cut in the last 12 months. 
At what hours will there be no flight briefing service available from Hobart Airport. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) What staff is on duty in the Airways Operations Section of Launceston Airport between 2300 hours and 0600 hours. 
Is this staffing adequate to cover flight emergencies during these hours. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 . May 1978: 
What reductions have been made in the staffing of the Airways Operations Section of Launceston Airport in the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
Arc delays occurring in the granting of furlough and recreational leave to staff in the Victorian/Tasmanian Region flight services, because of insufficient funds to cover overtime payments for staff replacing those on furlough or recreational leave. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
I ) What is the average waiting time in each State between application for and receipt of first payment in the following areas: 
age pension; 
invalid pension; 
widows' pension; 
) supporting mothers ' benefit: 
) lone fathers ' benefit; 
unemployment benefit; 
sickness benefit; and 
special benefit; in 1977. 
How does this waiting time compare with that of the two previous years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Has the Housing Allowance Voucher Experiment now been changed to the Housing Allowance Experiment; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
How many unemployment beneficiaries are currently taxed 35 cents in the dollar because a rebate declaration has not been completed. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Does the Government propose to sell Crown Land in the region of Maryport Rehabilitation Centre, Mount Martha, by public auction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) What funds were allocated to each Dental Therapy Training School in each State for each year since 1973. 
What funds were allocated for constructing and operating each mobile dental clinic in each State for each year since 1973. 
What funds were allocated for constructing and operating each school dental clinic in each State for each year since 1973. 
What State requests for funding were made for the above purposes in each year since 1973. 
Does the Commonwealth Government have similar details for the funding of school medical services. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, on 7 April, 1978: 
Which communities in Northern Territory and Queensland are receiving funds under Community Development Employment Projects (CDEP) 
How many Aboriginals were receiving unemployment benefits in each of those communities before CDEP funding. 
How many Aboriginals in those communities are now receiving unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 March 1978 
How many appeals in which the Social Security Appeals Tribunal has recommended in the appellant's favour were referred to State Directors for decision in each month since January 1977. 
How many of these recommendations were rejected by the State Directors in each month. 
How many appeals in which the Social Security Appeals Tribunal has recommended in the appellant's favour were referred to the Director-General of Social Security for decision in each month since January 1 977. 
How many of these recommendations were rejected by the Director-General in each month. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) How many aboriginals in the Northern Territory have been paid unemployment benefit in each month from January 1975, or from the date when the Department of Social Security began keeping such records. 
How many of these recipients were living on reserves. 
How many were paid from the Darwin office and how many from the Alice Springs office. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on  23  May  1978: 
1 ) Does the Department of Social Security record the medical reasons for the granting of invalid pensions. 
Are these records kept in medical categories, and in each State; if not, will consideration be given to keeping these statistics. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) For what age groups are the figures kept of registrants with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Does the Commonwealth Employment Service keep figures in each State, or any other figures, of Aboriginal registrants for employment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and seeks clarification of the changes to the family allowance scheme whereby children's incomes are indexed. Do these changes mean that if the son of a widow earns $10 to $15 a week selling newspapers to supplement his mother's income her family allowance will be reduced? Do these changes mean that if the daughter of a lowincome family works in the local McDonald's hamburger shop and earns $20 a week, again the family allowance will be reduced? Will children such as those who now do not have to put in tax returns have to put in income statements or similar statements so that family allowances can be adjusted in their cases? 

 Senator GUILFOYLE A change to the family allowance system was announced in the Budget Speech last night. An income test is to be applied to a child to determine the eligibility of parents to a payment of a family allowance. The provisions that were announced last night state that if a child is in receipt of income above a certain level there will be a withdrawal of the family allowance. The figures given in the instances referred to by  Senator Grimes  show that the family allowance would be withdrawn. Any suggestion that the changes were made so that the Government could look at the lower income level families is incorrect. 
When introduced, the family allowance scheme took into account the tax rebates which were given for dependent children in addition to the then child endowment payments. At the time, the child rebate which was given to the taxpayer diminished in accordance with the separate net income of the child concerned. The change that was announced by the Treasurer last night takes into account the separate net income of the child concerned. It should be recognised by honourable senators that the separate net income can arise from splitting a family income, from trust accounts, from partnership arrangements and from various other sources. Such income is different from the personal exertion income that may be gained by a child. My Department will be announcing the way in which the test will be applied to a child 's income for the previous year. I will see that early advice of the arrangements is given to all concerned. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I join with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in congratulating you on achieving your position as  Chairman  of Committees. I am sure that in the forthcoming year- or three years if the Parliament lasts that long- we on this side will be able to work amicably with you in the chair. The matter of public importance proposed in the Senate by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt,  today asks the 
Senate to tell the Government that it should implement immediately the provisions of placitum (xxvi) of section 51 of the Constitution as amended in the 1966-67 referendum and placitum (xxxi) to meet the wishes of the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal settlements. This is not the first time that this sort of motion has been debated in the Senate. 
I am sorry. It is not the first time that such a matter of importance has been debated in the Senate. Indeed, at one stage, because of the situation that applied in the Aurukun and Mornington Island areas, the Government introduced and passed enabling legislation concerning the same subject. As the Minister for Social Security said, at the moment we have a real problem. We have an agreement between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government concerning the management of the Aurukun and Mornington Island areas. These are local government areas which were set up as a result of the last confrontation which arose over those areas. 
Any changes to the arrangements there are supposed to be made after negotiations between the State and Federal governments. But for agreements of this type to work we must have good faith and trust on both sides. We must have negotiations on an equal basis. We must have negotiations in which each side at the table is willing to discuss and to come to conclusions by consensus. Negotiations that involve court injunctions to make one side come to the negotiating table, which has happened in this case, I suggest point out that the agreement is not working. The history of the situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island suggests that the agreement will not work in the future. 
In many ways it is pathetic and very sad that a significant section of the Australian Parliament should feel compelled to bring a matter of this type before the Parliament to debate with the aim of protecting a group of citizens- the Aurukun and Mornington Island peoples- from their own State Government. When this sort of thing is brought before the Parliament- I am sure that this will happen today- a majority from both sides of this Parliament will agree that the situation is far from satisfactory and that these people need protection from their own State Government because of its breach of faith in looking after their welfare. 
The last time this matter was debated the Federal Government not only felt it necessary to bring a Bill before the Parliament to get the 
Queensland Government to come to some agreement but also declared the Bill urgent. How much longer must the national Government of this country wait to use the powers which it undoubtedly has under the Constitution to ensure that the citizens of Queensland in these areas are treated with some justice and dignity? It is not only the Opposition which is calling for this sort of thing to happen but also the Uniting Church, which in its previous capacity as the Presbyterian Church in Australia had pastoral care over these people for many years, has called for this sort of thing to happen. Only this week  Senator Bonner,  who is to follow me in this debate, I notice, called on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to honour the pledge he gave to take over these settlements if the Queensland Government would not play the game and protect its own citizens. 
The problems at Aurukun and Mornington Island are a running sore on the already diseased body of black and white relationships in this country. They have been for a long time. Since 1968 the Queensland Government has been very interested in the Aurukun area, on the admission of the Premier himself. It is interested because of the rich bauxite deposits and the profits which will ensue if anyone mines in that area. The Senate will remember that in December 1 975 the Queensland Government bulldozed through the Parliament- as is frequently its wont- the Aurukun Associates Agreement Bill. This was to enable the Aurukun Associates to mine and to exploit the area so that the Queensland Government would get the mining royalties. That Bill was rushed through without consultation either with the inhabitants of the area or with the Presbyterian Church which was caring for them at the time and which was assisting them to develop the area. 
It is well known that people involved in tourist developments have a great interest in the Mornington Island area and have influenced the Government in its actions in regard to this area. The Queensland Government's plans to allow unfettered development of Aurukun and Mornington Island and to enable the takeover of these areas have been inhibited, I suggest, by two things. The first is obviously the reluctance of the populations, particularly the population of Aurukun, to allow this to happen. These people have seen what has happened to their brothers and sisters at Weipa. They do not want the same thing to happen at Aurukun. They want to have a say in whether mining should occur and what developments should take place in the area so that the mistakes that were made at Weipa will not be made at Aurukun. Anyone who has spoken to representatives of the Aurukun people at Weipa will know their very real fears. They do not want what happened at Weipa to happen at Aurukun. 
That is the first problem for the Queensland Government. It is compounded by the fact that the people of Aurukun are taking part in outstation movements which are common amongst Aboriginals. They return to their clan territories or tribal territories which are so important to them so that they can sit and think and sort out their future away from the influences of the alien civilisation which has affected them so much. The second thing which is inhibiting the Queensland Government is the presence of the Uniting Church. As I said, in its previous capacity as the Presbyterian Church it has cared for these people for a long time. It has had a policy of allowing them to develop at their own pace. It has the trust of the people. The Uniting Church has not been stood over by the Queensland Government in its efforts to take over this area. 
These two inhibiting factors have annoyed the Queensland Government. On two previous occasions it has tried to overcome these problems. In June 1977  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  threatened to take over the settlement at Aurukun. He said that law and order had broken down and that the people needed the control of the Queensland Government. He forgot, as was pointed out by  Senator Bonner  at the time, that law and order was a State Government responsibility. If law and order had broken down at Aurukun it had done so because of the State Government's failure to maintain it. Secondly, he forgot that since 1971 the people of both Aurukun and Mornington Island repeatedly requested the Queensland Government that a policeman be stationed on those settlements to help them maintain law and order. Because of the State Government's own failure,  Mr BjelkePetersen  was going to take over the settlements from the Church. He was going to use the breakdown of law and order as an excuse to get a direct hand in the future development of the area. 
The second time the Queensland Government threatened to take over this area it did so for a different reason. It claimed that the health standards had dropped, that educational facilities were insufficient and that children were not getting a proper education. Health and education are again State Government areas of responsibility. If standards had broken down it was the responsibility of the Queensland Government to repair the damage. It could and should have done so without having to take over this area. 
That argument was quickly squashed by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber who had some knowledge of the health problems in the area and by former  Senator Wood  who admitted that he had received advice from  Mr Porter,  the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, that the real reason he wanted to take over the area was that he did not agree with the movement of Aboriginals away from the central settlement because it made life difficult for the Queensland Government. 
This is a sad story. A great and real difficulty has arisen in the area. The Federal Government came to an agreement with the Queensland Government. The Opposition admits that the Federal Government has tried very hard to help the Aboriginal people. It has co-operated with the Uniting Church and the local council in the area. The Queensland Government has ignored the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  It has had no negotiations with the Federal Minister or the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It has merely marched in and said: ' Your council is out. Our administrator is in. We are taking over'. It has then notified the Minister of this action. It has not negotiated with him as to what should happen. It has told him what happened and to keep out of the area. Negotiations in future will be impossible. We can have no faith in the sincerity of the Queensland Government in entering into any agreement about the area. We can have no real expectation that the Aboriginal people will trust the Queensland Government. Obviously they do not trust it. They have advised everyone who has gone near them that they do not trust the Queensland Government and do not want to have anything to do with it. 
Surely the only answer to the problem is that the Parliament should use the powers available to it under the Constitution, given to it by an overwhelming majority of the people of this country, to take over these areas, to look after the welfare of these people, to allow them to develop in their own way without the paternalistic nonsense which we know goes on in Queensland and to allow them to have a proper say in the future development of the mineral and other resources in their area. Unless we do this we are breaching faith with the people of the area. Unless we guarantee the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island the same rights, privileges and protection as any other group of citizens no other group of citizens, black or white, can feel safe. If we have to protect them from their own government we must do so, otherwise not only will they have no faith in the Queensland Government but also they will have no faith in the Federal Government and Federal-State relations will end up in chaos. 
I risk the ire of my Leader and my  Deputy  Leader, but I want to join in this debate very briefly in view of  Senator Baume  's remarks. He raised for the first time the possibility of staff members of legislative and general purpose standing committees being transferred to the Estimates committees to boost their function in the manner which  Senator Rae  mentioned. I would join with  Senator Baume  also in the demarcation dispute to express concern about this aspect. While I am on my feet I merely put on the record the view that to hear someone like  Senator Rae  suggest that the acquisition of five members of staff for Estimates committees in this country will somehow save democracy, will somehow overcome the very real difficulties of democracy which have been created by the past behaviour of certain members of this House, is a joke. I do not wish to go on at length with the argument for fear of provoking him to his feet again. I just put on the record my view that I think that is a lot of exaggerated nonsense. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that yesterday the Treasury claimed that the Budget estimates for the payment of unemployment benefit in the current year is for an average 290,000 recipients a month as against 265,000 recipients a month last year? Does she agree with this estimate? If so, will she agree that her departmental estimate for the National Welfare Fund- that expenditure on unemployment benefit in the coming year will be $10m less than last year- is a deliberate deception and that, as in the case of last year, the Government is again deliberately understating the amount of money which will be required for unemployment benefit so as deliberately to understate the Budget deficit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
What information is available as to the average number of services provided to patients who are direct-billed by the doctor compared to those billed by other methods. 
What percentage of doctors direct-billed patients for medical services in the periods: (a) July-December 1975; (b) 
I came into this discussion very late. However, I understand there has been a misunderstanding due to the fact that the Labor Party Whip had to leave at an early hour. There has been a misunderstanding of arrangements between the Whips and the Minister. What has happened is nobody's fault. I was not able to explain to  Senator Keeffe  what had happened.  Senator Keeffe  has consistently been an advocate of using the time available for General Business properly and to the full. What has happened tonight has resulted from a mix-up and nobody is to blame. I do not believe the matter should be pursued any further. 
-Before moving the adjournment of the debate I shall speak very briefly to some of the points raised by  Senator Baume  and by this report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare which, as the Senate knows, was tabled last October. If honourable senators notice a particular aura of sanctity or righteousness about me as I speak this time when compared with last time, it is because I have joined my colleague  Senator O  'Byrne in the ranks of the ex-smokers in this country. I have not quite joined the ex-drinkers in this country as has the ex-President of my Party, Bob Hawke, and the honourable senator who interjected a moment ago. As  Senator Baume  has said those of us who are members of the Committee welcomed and in some cases were surprised at the reception the report received in some very illustrious places. The remarks in the  Lancet,  the remarks in the  Australian Medical Journal  and the favourable remarks from drug authorities in the United States were very pleasing. 
Running through those remarks was the constant theme that this was a report which had taken a reasonable and sensible approach to the problems of drug abuse in this country and which had taken part in a rational debate on the problems of drug abuse in this country. Indeed, one of the most important parts of the report is a plea for rational debate on drug abuse. As the report says and as, I think,  Senator Baume  mentioned, for too long in this country and in other countries the whole debate on drug abuse has been clouded by hysteria on both sides, for and against, by the use of anecdotal evidence without any scientific backing up and, which is inevitable, I suppose, particularly in our political system, by the use of this debate by some people to gain a segment of the votes in the community by playing on the prejudices of those people whom they believe they need to support them. 
I am afraid that, despite this report and despite the pleas of  Senator Baume  and other members of the Committee last time, this sort of thing still goes on. I am afraid that too often we still have two schools of thought standing off and shouting at each other without looking at the facts and without looking at the scientific evidence we have available. We have one group taking the libertarian approach, which I believe goes further than John Stuart Mill, in saying that we should be able to do as we please in the community, and we have another group saying we should ban everything that affects anyone in any way. 
I believe that we have a responsibility in this Parliament to look at the facts carefully, to look at the evidence that is available and to make our conclusions on the basis of that evidence. The few differences we had on the Committee- they existed only in the section on cannabis- I believe were based on a difference of opinion, mainly a difference of opinion on the interpretation of the facts as they came before the Committee. There may have been some philosophical differences among those who brought the report forward, but the differences were argued in a rational way and were not argued from a point of view of prejudice. They were not like two people sitting back and screaming at each other, which, as I said, has bedevilled this debate for such a long time. If the reports produce nothing else but sane and sensible debate and a sensible scientific appraisal of the facts in this area, I think we will have achieved a lot; and I believe that we can achieve a lot in this country. 
The second good thing that the report did, I believe, was to bring forward to the people of this country the realities of the drug abuse situation and to remove some of the myths which surround arguments on drug abuse in Australia. As  Senator Baume  has clearly pointed out, this report asserted unanimously that the big drug problems in this country are alcohol and tobacco, and in their volume and effects on the social and community life of Australia they far exceed other problems with other drugs in this community. By the way, we attempted to remove some of the myths which are so precious to the hearts of all Australians. The famous myth is that we have the strongest beer in the world and that by being able to drink this beer we are the most masculine and the greatest people in the world. In case any senator has not read the report and is not aware of the facts, we have very ordinary strength beer, we are way down the scale of strength of beer in this world, and there is nothing particularly virtuous in being able to consume vast quantities, despite what is said in Carlton United, Tooths and other beer advertisements. 
I may be doing our international image great harm, but I am more concerned at the moment about our local image than our international image, although I know  Senator Knight  has a very great concern for foreign affairs. I differ from  Senator Baume  in perhaps one regard, and I differed from  Senator Walters  in this regard the other night. I would like to believe that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  had increased the excise on beer, alcohol and tobacco as a result of our report and as a result of a great concern to decrease the consumption of alcohol and tobacco. As an ordinary citizen as well as a member of the Opposition, I am afraid that I must suggest that I suspect that the Treasurer's motives were directed more to the revenue side of the Budget than to decreasing consumption. Even with the increases in the Budget it is worth while pointing out that we still pay less, as a percentage of our average weekly earnings, for alcohol at least- I have not checked on tobacco- than we did in the immediate postwar years. Nothing has been done about the very real and useful suggestion, I believe, in the report that we should put a selective excise on alcohol to encourage the drinking of low alcohol beers. 
This report came out at an interesting time. While we were still sitting royal commissions were commissioned by the Commonwealth, by New South Wales and by South Australia to look into drug problems. We have had a preliminary report from South Australia which, as  Senator Baume  says, is of a quality which far exceeds the usual sort of report that we get from royal commissions in this country and is far better and of a far higher standard than the usual debate on drugs in this community. I hope that in future the debate on drug abuse in Australia will be more rational and will be conducted more by reasonable men and women who look at the facts and at the possibilities of control of abuse in a sensible way rather than just consider the two alternatives of prohibition and complete libertarianism. If we look at the problems sensibly and if when we decide on solutions to those problems we evaluate the effects of those solutions so that we are sure that we are achieving what we set out to achieve, we may get somewhere. However, if we continue to shout at each other and to air our prejudices in this Parliament and in the media, and if we continue to condemn those whose views differ from ours to gain political votes in political ballots or according to the prejudices we think the community has, we will continue to go the way we are going as an intoxicated society; and the only difference that will occur is that the variety of those intoxicants will increase, the absolute volume of those intoxicants used will increase, and we will get nowhere. We will head down the long road of the dissolution of our society which can occur, I am sure, in the long term as a result of drug abuse. I seek leave to continue my remarks so that we can continue this important debate on another day. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) When will the offices to administer the Housing Allowance Voucher Experiment open in Melbourne and Hobart. 
When will the first payments under the Housing Allowance Voucher Experiment scheme be made. 
-The Minister for Social Security will recall saying about this time last year that the Government expected to save $30m in unemployment benefit payments because there would be only 25 payments instead of 26 last year. I ask the Minister how many payments the Department will make this year, how the number of payments has affected the Government's estimates this year and whether the $30m allegedly saved last year is built into this year's estimates? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1978: 
1 ) How many members of the Greek community in Sydney have been charged in connection with alleged social security frauds. 
How many people have been charged and have later had the charges withdrawn. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) What is the cost of providing supplementary benefit to long term sickness beneficiaries. 
What would be the cost of providing supplementary benefit to unemployed and special beneficiaries under the same conditions as those applying to long term sickness beneficiaries. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
How many new regional offices of the Department of Social Security were established: 
between January and June 1 976; and ( b) between June 1 976 and July 1978. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) How many appeals in which the Social Security Appeals Tribunal has recommended in the appellant's favour were referred to the Director-General of Social Security in each State from April to June 1978. 
What proportion of appeals considered by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals does this represent. 
How many of the appeals referred to the DirectorGeneral which the Tribunals determined in the appellant's favour were upheld by him. 
What proportion of the appeals considered by the Director-General does this represent. 

 -Mr President, may I before I speak briefly on the Budget tonight, congratulate you on your reelection. I have not had an opportunity to do so before this. May I also give the traditional congratulations to those who have made their maiden speeches during this Budget Session. I can assure them that they were listened to with interest. I cannot assure them, certainly not the last gentleman who spoke, that they will be heard in silence in the future. I am not known particularly for having an over-concern for the traditions of this country, of any country, or of the traditions of this place; but if one wishes to trample all over the traditions of this place one can expect the consequences. I would make one final comment: In my time in this place I have noticed that intellectual arrogance quickly is cut off at the knees, and I suggest that may happen in this case. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his electoral speech at the weekend, said: 'Illness takes time to cure and healing is not without pain'. The illness to which he was referring was what he calls our sick economy. It was a typical statement of the Prime Minister, the sort that goes well with his more notorious statements: Life was not meant to be easy', 'There is no such thing as a free lunch', and the like. Some of the Prime Minister's more conservative supporters have taken up this cry about pain and sickness. For instance,  Senator Messner  on 23 August, in his speech on the Budget, said:   . . . there is still some pain to be borne in this community by virtue of tax increases to put the Australian economy back on a better basis'. 
All this talk about pain and suffering smacks a bit of sado-masochism, especially on the pan of those Government members and supporters who continually utter these calls for pain and suffering. It really is just sadism, because all the suffering is to be borne by others, not by the Government, not by Government members and not by those who back them. It is this aspect of suffering and sacrifice, that we are told by the Government is essential, that I wish to deal with mainly tonight. The fact is that those who are asked to suffer are those who can least bear it. This is typical, I believe, of the attitude of this Government. 
An aspect of this redistribution of the burden of recovery in this country which is even more disturbing is the fact that many of the Government's actions are quite contrary to promises that it made to citizens very recently, certainly in the last election and for some time since then. Much has been made, of course, in the community of the fact that the Government has reneged on its promises to reduce taxes. Tax reductions which were promised by the last Government had, in fact, already been eliminated by the changes to health insurance; but they are completely negated by the increases in taxation in this Budget, an increase which goes under the guise of a levy but which is, of course, just a straight tax increase. The nature of the tax levy is such that the low income earners suffer more than the high income earners. The tax increase on very low income earners in this Budget is almost 5 per cent. On middle income earners it is about 3 per cent, and on the highest incomes it is, in fact, only 2.5 per cent. This demonstrates clearly where the Government's priorities lie. The lowest percentage increase in taxation goes to those who earn the most. 
In the field of social security, in which I am particularly interested, the priorities are equally revealing. I suppose the first and best thing to talk about to demonstrate this strange set of priorities is the Government's actions on the indexation of pensions. In 1972 pensions in this country were 20 per cent of the average weekly earnings. In the next three years pensions were increased twice yearly at a rate higher than the rate of inflation. So, at the end of 1975, pensions were in fact 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The then shadow Minister for Social Security and for a short time the caretaker Minister for Social Security, who is now an Australian Democrat senator in this place, promised, on behalf of the Government- he has said repeatedly since then that he had the support of both the Liberal and National Country Parties- that pensions would be automatically and immediately indexed to the consumer price index twice yearly and that pensions would be taken out of politics. 
When the Government came to power at the end of 1975 this promise was not carried out. After some prodding by the Opposition, by the pensioners and by the then disillusioned exshadow Minister for Social Security who was still then a member of the Liberal Party, legislation was introduced to index pensions twice yearly. The pensions were not indexed immediately although they were indexed automatically. There was a delay of some four months from the time the CPI figures became available until the pensions were increased on each occasion. It is worthwhile looking at some of the comments that were made at that time and at some of the comments that have been made since. We heard loud cries of self-congratulation by various members of the Government about the commitments that were made. I will quote some.  Senator Guilfoyle,  on 5 December 1977, said: 
We have altered the legislation so that there is an automatic increase every six months and we do accept that this is an increase in the social welfare bill. 

 Mr Fraser said on 1 3 March: 
We are committed to take the politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 

 Senator Guilfoyle, again on 5 December 1977, said: 
I've had lots of people say to me: 'You've given us dignity because you don 't argue about our rises every six months '. 
Others made great play of indexation, particularly when speaking in the Budget debate. One can well remember  Senator Baume  crowing in this place about how the Liberals had indexed pensions and how it was the greatest change in social security legislation in history. Who would have imagined that such an action could be reversed so quickly and so callously for $ 1 50m or less? Commitments are worth nothing; promises are worth nothing. The delay for pensioners in receiving compensation for increased prices will be 16 months, not four months. The question may well be asked: Why should the pensioners, of all people, have to bear the brunt of the Government's economic policy? Are they any less in need than the industries in this country which will receive and have received hundreds of millions of dollars by way of the investment allowance in the last couple of years? 
The next group of people who are asked to bear the brunt are the unemployed. Those with dependants, like all other beneficiaries, will receive compensation for price rises only yearly instead of twice yearly as was the case. So, they will suffer and bear this burden like all other beneficiaries. But those without dependants will not receive any automatic increases at all. They will have to await the Government's pleasure. The single 18 to 2 5 -year-old unemployed people- that great and increasing mass of people whose unemployment rate in this country is a disgraceful 25 per cent and who were referred to by  Senator Teague  who believes somehow that the Government is looking after such peoplewill receive no increase at all unless they have the temerity to marry while receiving benefits and to take on dependants. The 40-year-old, 45-year- old or 55-year-old bachelors or spinters who are put out of work because their skills are inappropriate or because of technological changes and who can find no other work because none is available are to be treated as second class citizens and will receive no increase at all. Again, they must await the Government's pleasure. Those unemployed persons under 1 8 years who have received no increase for three years will again receive none. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Paper is admitting that unemployment will increase and that the number of unemployment beneficiaries will increase by 25,000 each month this year. The Government's policies in fact are ignoring unemployment. This is a continuation of the Government's campaign of denigration of the unemployed, the so-called dole bludgers as Government supporters like to call them. The Prime Minister, when in Opposition and when first in Government, claimed that he had a different attitude. The  Daily Mirror  of 9 September 1974 reported  Mr Fraser,  the then shadow Minister for Labour, as suggesting higher unemployment benefits if the number of jobless got much worse. He said that the Government should pay the minimium wage of about $80 a week if the number of people out of work exceeded 250,000. He was quoted in the Melbourne  Age  of the same day as saying that he accepted the principle that as unemployment rose so too should unemployment benefits. He said: 
The principle would be designed to protect individuals who quite innocently are caught in the turmoil of a mismanaged economy. 
He said, on 27 November 1975: 
We will be generous to those who cannot get a job and want to work. 
On 17 July 1977 he said: 
Unemployment is a dispiriting experience that not only undermines self-respect but creates social problems. Its effects are not just confined to the person unemployed, but they are felt throughout the whole structure of family life. 
On 19 November 1976 he said: 
The strategy we are pursuing aims at a gradual and sound recovery. It is designed to achieve a reduction in unemployment by mid- 1977. 
That reduction has not occurred. The Treasurer, and through him the Government, admits that unemployment will get worse; yet the Government in fact takes action to reduce the benefits and assistance available to the unemployed in this country and takes no action to counteract the ill effects of unemployment or to bring down the level of unemployment. The Government will be condemned enough for its deliberate policy of creating unemployment and depression to fight inflation. For its callous disregard of those it deliberately throws out of work by cutting their benefits and reducing their eligibility, it deserves double condemnation. 
The next item in the social security section of the Budget is the freeze on pension increases for those over 70 years of age who have a free of means test pension. This action, of course, is also contrary to the Liberal-National Country Party policy so confidently put forward by the then  Mr Chipp.  It is also contrary to subsequent policies. In the policy speech of 1975, the Government in fact promised to abolish the means test for those 65 years and over. Immediately on achieving office it abandoned that policy. Some concern was expressed that the Government might in fact alter pension eligibility for those over 70 years, but those people were assured that this was not so by the Government and they planned their lives in that belief. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of 5 April 1977 stated: 
The Fraser Government will continue to exempt pensioners over 70 from any means test ...  Mr Fraser  told a questioner that pensioners over 70 were 'quite happy and secure ' in not being forced to undergo a means test to qualify for a pension ... I don't think we can really get back to the situation where the pension is means tested over 70. 
No one in this country can be happy and secure with anything that this Prime Minister says. One can almost guarantee that he will go back on any promise he makes except when he promises that life will not be easy or that there will be pain and suffering for those who come under his care. Family allowances are also looked after in this country by the Department of Social Security. This Budget contained originally an extraordinary proposal to means test children's pocket money. Even the Government in its shame had to withdraw this a few days later. Welcome as the Government's withdrawal was, this diversion should not cloud the important fact, that by not increasing family allowances since their introduction the value of these allowances has been eroded. The low income families so dependent on them have suffered a loss in real income and those pensioners with children and pensioners with rented accommodation who have not had their children's allowances or rent allowances increased since 1975 are now well below the poverty line, as pointed out by Professor Henderson who conducted the poverty inquiry and by almost every welfare agency in this country. 
The payment of family allowances was not an increased government expenditure; it was a transfer of moneys from the old tax rebate system. The extent of the erosion of family income, which has occurred since this Government came to power, was demonstrated in a table prepared by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. It showed that families with children which had one bread winner earning an income on or below average weekly earnings were up to $ 1 1 a week worse off as a result of the present Government's tax policies and family allowance changes. Since that table was produced- and it has been reproduced widely in this country- we have had a further increase in taxation in the form of the levy that was introduced in this Budget. We can see that the Government has aimed at the very aged- the over 70s- by introducing a means text on pension increases for these people. Its actions have been aimed at the pensioners and beneficiaries by cutting back on the frequency of indexation of their pensions and they are aimed particularly at the single unemployed, by depriving them altogether of indexed pensions. 
As I said, the Government originally intended to income tax test the pocket money of children. It also originally intended to tax blind pensions for those under 65 years but this also has been reversed by public pressure. But there are those other handicapped people who will also feel the clutches of the tax man unless the Government, as it has done in the case of the children and in the case of the blind, again feels some sense of conscience for what it has done and changes its mind. I hope that there are some Government supporters who believe that it should do this. Allowances paid to rehabilitees will be taxed for the first time in this Budget. So will living away from home allowances, travel allowances and sheltered workshop allowances paid to rehabilitees. Those who are handicapped by blindness who were to be taxed for the first time in this Budget have had that decision reversed by the Treasurer. I believe that pressure should be applied to the Government to reverse the decision to tax these other allowances. Only some 10,000 people are affected. The revenue forgone would be little. This action will tend to destroy the initiative and independence of these people and force some of them back into dependence and some back into institutions. It is important that Government supporters look at this matter and apply pressure on the Cabinet to reverse this decision. We have a Government which has sought to reduce expenditure by extracting funds from the aged, the pensioners the beneficiaries of all types, the school children, the blind and the disabled. Some have been saved by public protest but others will still be affected. 
Other areas of welfare expenditure will also be affected. Aged persons housing expenditure has fallen well behind promises. The $225m triennium which was promised in 1976 now has no hope of being fulfilled. It is $75m and one year behind target. Home care subsidies which are subject to legislation in this Parliament at the moment and to debate in another place have been reduced from $2 to $1 to $1 to $1. Emergency relief has been completely ignored despite the pleas of voluntary agencies that action is necessary, especially in view of rising unemployment and despite promises by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security that a policy was being developed and was well on the way. I suppose the final example of meanness and injustice is seen in the Government's treatment of its own injured ex-employees and their widows. Increases in compensation payments to injured employees and to survivors of deceased employees when the constitutional difficulties occurred during 1975 were deferred and were not in fact approved until a year later in 1976. No cost of living increases have been given since despite the wage and salary increases which have been given usually at six-monthly intervals. 
So we have had a two-year period without increases. Previously raises were always given at yearly intervals. The implication by the Government in answer to questions was that in future increases would be given every two years. Increases are surely worthy of being given much more frequently than that. These people are employees getting compensation for injuries or sicknesses sustained at work or widows or other dependents of people killed in the course of their work. This year the Government has again deferred the increases and it seems that they will not be given for another year. That is a disgraceful discriminatory act to those who served it; an act that would be condemned in any other employer. The domiciliary nursing care benefit which was promised by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in the 1978 Budget for those aged from 16 to 65 years is ignored. We may hear from  Senator Missen  about the million dollars that has been wasted on the housing allowance voucher experiment which he supported, which I opposed and which has now been abandoned with little explanation and with no information left to us. 
I am complaining about the fact that we have the worst housing situation in 15 years and the lowest employment in the housing industry for 16 years. The housing allowance voucher experiment was doomed to failure. I am grateful it has been abandoned but nothing is left in its place and there is no prospect for those who are seeking houses or employment in this industry in the near future. It is one thing for the Government to announce that we must tighten our belts and introduce anti-inflationary policies; it is another thing to aim these policies at the disadvantaged, the unemployed, the low income earner and every one else in the community who can least protect himself against these changes. At the same time the Government has introduced various measures, which have been spoken about by other speakers, such as the increase in petrol prices which will further aggravate the difficulties of underprivileged people, particularly those living on the edges of urban regions with inadequate public transport, for whom the cost of purchasing goods will go up because of increased transport costs. 
In the Governor-General's Speech in February 1976 the Prime Minister said that the government would not permit economic recovery to take place at the expense of those who were less well off. Two and a half years later we have a Budget which purports to promote economic recovery, though no-one outside the Government believes that it will, contains measures that are aimed directly at the less well off. The welfare aspects of this Budget have been universally condemned and deservedly so. They have been condemned by the Press and they have been condemned by such authorities as Professor Henderson. They have been condemned by the councils of social service, they have been condemned by various welfare agencies, I am pleased to say that aspects of them have even been condemned by supporters of the Government itself 
In the short time I have remaining I would like to bring up another aspect of social security which arises indirectly out of report of the Auditor-General. The Auditor-General's report deals extensively with the over-payment of benefits, particularly in the unemployment area, although it is not directly to this aspect that I wish to refer. On 8 February this year, questions were raised in the Press and the Parliament about the fact that the Department of Social Security was embarking on a mass raid on those on unemployment benefits. It was to be a socalled saturation raid, which was to involve inspectors of the Department of Social Security seeing all the unemployed in Australia to see whether they were entitled to their benefits. Protests were made by the Opposition, and by me. 
In reply to the protests that were made in and out of this Parliament, a statement was made by the Director-General of Social Services at the time commenting on reports that field officers' activities had been stepped up. He claimed that this activity was a normal function and a routine part of the administration of the Department of Social Security and that this was going on continuously. Protests were also made by people such as  Mr Ian  Yates, the Secretary of the Australian Council of Social Services. On the radio program  PM,  he expressed his views on this subject. He was followed on the same program the next night by  Senator Walters  who, quite correctly, had sought information from the Director-General of Social Services,  Mr Lanigan.  He had told her that this was a routine administrative procedure which had been carried out for years. As a Government senator should,  Senator Walters  supported her Government and the Department. The next night it was reported on  PM  that many people had telephoned informing  PM  that  Senator Walters  had been wrong: In fact this was not a routine administrative procedure; these were saturation raids which had suddenly been introduced. 
My complaint is that  Senator Walters  and I and the Parliament have been misled. The Minister for Social Security also reported that her Director-General had stressed that the inquiries that had been made at the time were routine administrative inquiries. Very few people I know believed this story that was coming from the Department at the time. But still the Parliament was informed that this was a routine matter. We now find in the Auditor-General's report that the Auditor-General was told at the time by the Department of Social Security:   . . saturation checks of unemployment benefit eligibility were currently being conducted in all States on the basis of locality. 
These were being conducted as a result of suggestions that people were being overpaid the unemployment benefit. The simple fact of the matter is that this House, a Government senator, the Opposition and the public were informed by the Department that these raids were not occurring, that all that was happening was that there routine checks of unemployment beneficiaries in this community. That is patently not true. That was a deliberate untruth. At the same time the Department was informing the Auditor-General differently. I believe that in future we will all have to view with a jaundiced eye information coming from the same source as that from which this information came. It is wrong for people in this Parliament responsible for legislation and the administration of the government of this country to be so misled. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security a question. In view of the allegations made by the Auditor-General of overpayments of pensions and benefits in her Department and her announcement that changes are to be made to prevent this, will she make available to the Senate the findings of the review team which looked at the operational systems and procedures of her Department so that senators and others may be better able to judge the need for the reforms which are being carried out in her Department? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1978: 
What is the estimated cost to the Commonwealth of providing fringe benefit entitlements to: (a) sickness beneficiaries: (b) special beneficiaries; (c) unemployment beneficiaries; and (d) supporting parents, under the same means test that applies to pensioners. 
-I do not wish to delay the House on the first reading of a money Bill, but I was provoked by the Comments of  Senator Walters  on this matter, and by events which led to her making them. Women's shelters are, of course, very important. The whole program of supporting women's shelters, which was introduced by a Labor government, has been very important to the community in the last few years. I do not suppose that any program has more justified itself. How many hundreds and thousands of women and children who have got into difficulties through the problems associated with nuclear families in this country, who have become split away from the nuclear family, and who have had nowhere to go, have been helped by women's shelters in the various States. 
These shelters are run in all cases by groups of volunteers who devote to them a great deal of their time and effort, both physical and emotional. The people who have gone into these shelters have been in very difficult circumstances and have found the shelters a haven in which they can be protected. This is accepted by everyone. This has been a successful scheme, conducted and funded largely by the Commonwealth. I believe that is the way it should be. It is gratifying to hear, for the first time that 1 can remember,  Senator Walters  supporting a Commonwealth scheme which involves what she calls a centralist approach to the conduct of these centres. Usually we on this side of the chamber are condemned for suggesting that the Commonwealth can run and look after national programs as well as, or better than, the States. So we have established that  Senator Walters  agrees that this has been a good program, although conducted by the Commonwealth. 
However, there are several disturbing aspects of the matter  Senator Walters  brought up which should be aired in this place in order to get the matter into perspective. There may have been some difficulties in the Hobart women 's shelter. I certainly am not denying that. I am not in a position to question that one way or the other. Allegations about these difficulties have been made, and the State Minister for Community Welfare is conducting an investigation. Most of us who have been interested in women's shelters have been careful to keep them out of the limelight as much as possible, to keep the publicity level low. Even the siting of most of them is, for obvious reasons, kept secret. In this way the women who go there can indeed be protected and sheltered. The difficulties arose in this case because some photographs were allegedly taken at the women's shelter in Hobart- photographs allegedly showing behaviour which was not very proper in such a place. 
The women who conducted the shelter admitted that something had gone on. They told me that they had corrected the difficulty that arose at the time; but that is not what 1 am talking about, senator. I am talking about the fact that allegations were made; that photographs were taken and delivered to a member of the House of Representatives, who has said that he was asked to investigate the problem, to see what was going on at this shelter. I accept that that is a proper thing to do; that it is perfectly reasonable for a member of the House of Representatives to be approached with such a proposition, and that he should therefore investigate it. The member concerned did that. He took the photographs to the Crown Law officer, notified the local Minister for Community Welfare and then, as he always does - 
He and his colleague notified the Press; they had their names slapped all over the Press. 
Another one of his colleagues made the statement that this was a disgusting shelter; that shelters should not be conducted anyhow. That is where the trouble starts. We have a Minister who is willing to investigate and does investigate. We have a Crown Law officer who investigates the problem. We have concerned people who, in a voluntary manner, have been running a shelter, who have in most cases been working day and night for no return. We have complaints about the shelter. Those complaints are taken to the local member of the House of Representatives, but what does he do? He runs and gets as much publicity and scandal out of it as he can. That is the tragedy of this situation at the Hobart shelter. 
I hope and I know that the State Minister will investigate this carefully. I hope and I know that he will do whatever should be done to correct any difficulties that have occurred and ensure that such difficulties do not occur in the future. I believe that is as it should be. It would have been just as appropriate for this shelter, having been funded by the Federal Government, to have been under its control. In those circumstances it would have been appropriate for the Federal Minister to conduct an investigation. It is always appropriate for members of the House of Representatives, and for senators, to be approached on difficulties such as this, and to take them to the relevant authorities and have them investigated. I think it is utterly wrong for members of the House of Representatives, or senators, for their own cheap political gain to run to the Press with stories of scandalous photographs, and condemnatory statements about people who, in good faith, have been conducting shelters. This is the first time I have spoken on this subject and I have known about it for weeks. It is the first time that  Senator Walters  has spoken about it, to my knowledge, other than by way of a minor comment. She too has known about it for some time. Members of both sides of Parliament, Liberal and Labor, Federal and State, have known about it for some time, but only two Federal members have carried on in this way, to obtain publicity. One State member yesterday stacked on a turn in the Parliament to get publicity. Such tactics are cheap. These people are abusing their position as members of Parliament, and when the inquiry is over I hope that their part in it will be fully publicised. 
-In the short time I have available tonight to continue my remarks on this subject I inform the Senate that the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, like many other people in the community, consider that the report is a very good one. We consider that the report is very important and should be carefully considered by the community and by the Government in particular. For that reason we intend to keep the debate on the Notice Paper for as long as we can. I give fair warning of that. 
We think that all honourable senators should have a chance to join in the debate, as the  Chairman  of the Committee says. We will encourage every member of the chamber to join in the debate in the future. 
I will eventually, but not tonight. I assure the Minister of that. 
We are very anxious to get  Senator Chipp  into the debate. For many years he has spoken frequently on this subject without as far as we know, giving any definitive views as yet. We think it is important that he and his colleague give some definitive views. So, we will give him the opportunity to do so. When the  Chairman  of the Committee and I last spoke on this matter we pointed out that this report had been very well received in various quarters. Some people did not appreciate it because some of our recommendations may have threatened some of their interests. It is important that Senate committees bring down reports as a result of evidence and careful and considered thought. Although we must consider the interests of others, we must not let them affect our reports and our thoughts on the effects of various drugs on the community. 
Because of the short time available to me and so that I can continue my remarks later, I will inform the Senate of some of the reactions we have received to this report. I refer, firstly, to a letter from Robert L. DuPont, M.D., who is the Director of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in the United States. He writes: 
Dear  Mr Baume: 
Thank you for sending me a copy of your very thoughtful report,  D rug Problems in Australia- an intoxicated society? I  and others on our staff were struck by the willingness of the Committee to thoroughly explore the implications of drug abuse regardless of whether it is abuse of a licit or illicit substance. Moreover, the report does not shrink from making some uncommonly sound recommendations with respect to public policy in terms of discouraging all recreational drug use. Your emphasis on alcohol and tobacco as  the  drugs of most serious abuse is also a much needed-recognition of the relative importance of the various types of drug use from a public health standpoint. 
The letter continues: 
Please accept my congratulations for an excellent, wellintegrated picture of the problem of drug abuse. While there are some differences from country to country, I am very much struck by the many similarities in the problems which confront you and us at this difficult time in history. 
We have received many other letters of this type. I give everyone warning that I will produce them next time. Having said that, and as the time is now 10.30 p.m., I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) On what date did the Minister communicate with the relevant State Ministers informing them of the cuts in subsidy rates and allocation of finance under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969. 
What responses have been received from State Premiers and/or the relevant State Ministers. 
3 ) What is the 1 978-79 allocation to each State. 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to the announcement in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer that in future allowances for those receiving rehabilitation and for those in sheltered workshops will be taxed- or perhaps in view of the Minister's answer a moment ago I should say, 'will have some of their allowances withdrawn'. What effect will this have on the Government's finances in the forthcoming Budget and how many people will be involved in this new tax arrangement? 
Having by word and deed indicated our opposition to this legislation, I wish to reaffirm that opposition but at the same time inform the Senate that we will not call a division in the Committee stage. In view of some of the remarks made in the second reading debate it is worth while emphasising some of the points which the Opposition has made in opposing this legislation. The Bill is opposed not only by the Opposition and the Australian Democrats but also by almost every person and organisation concerned with this legislation since it was announced. Such people and organisations include Professor Henderson, the newspapers, the Council for the Ageing, various welfare organisations and local government bodies throughout Australia as well as back bench members of the Government parties in the other place, particularly the honourable member for Higgins,  Mr Shipton.  We object not only to the subsidy which is paid by the Federal Government to assist those bodies taking part in this worthwhile cause- a cause with which we agree, with which the Liberal Party has agreed in its policy speech and to which State governments have all agreed, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said- being reduced but also to the manner in which the reduction took place. 
The Government makes much of its policy of federalism. It claims that it is a co-operative policy between the States and the Federal Government. However, the Opposition believes that in any co-operative setup the changes to arrangements should be made after negotiation and consultation. The Minister therefore cannot say that the States have accepted the new arrangements because the new arrangements were landed on the States at a Premiers Conference without consultation or negotiation. There was an announcement that that was what the policy would be in the future. If we are to have an orderly federal program of this type alterations to policy should follow negotiation and consultation between the bodies concerned. There should not be just a unilateral announcement, such as occurred in this case and when the Government decided to cease its support for the Australian Assistance Plan. This goes against the Government's stated policy on federalism. 
They are the reasons that we do not support this legislation. They go further than the simplistic reasons for support advanced by  Senator Baume,  who made the claim that most of the people opposing the legislation were protecting their vested interests in the matter. Without wishing to delay the House further, I affirm that we oppose this legislation but will not call a division in the Committee stage. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill, providing as it does for the amendment of the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969, is opposed by the Opposition. The Bill is the legislative result of a statement by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at a Premiers Conference in June which announced the cuts in the Commonwealth contributions under this Act now provided for in this Bill. That announcement provoked considerable discussion in the community and considerable opposition to the proposals from organisations such as the Australian Council on the Ageing; from people such as Professor Henderson, who conducted the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and was commissioned to do so by a Liberal-National Country Party government; from many local government councils in Victoria; from most newspapers- in particular the Melbourne  Ageand  even from Government members of Parliament. The honourable member for Higgins,  Mr Shipton,  was quite outspoken in his opposition to the provisions contained in this legislation, but he explained the situation by saying that public servants had slipped these changes through while the Minister was not looking. That is an extraordinary comment for any supporter of any government to make. One notices that though he repeatedly expressed his opposition in the Press before the legislation hit the House of Representatives, he did not vote against it when it was before the House of Representatives. 
The Government's changes to the States Grants (Home Care) Act in fact are an indication of its lack of responsibility towards Commonwealth programs in the welfare field and towards people, particularly the frail aged, who will be affected by the funding cuts contained in this legislation. This legislation seeks to cut the subsidy to State governments for home care services from a $2 to $ 1 subsidy down to a $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy; that is, instead of the Commonwealth paying two-thirds of the cost of these services, as a result of this legislation it will pay only a half. 
As I said, announcement of these changes was made to the Premiers on 22 June this year. To the best of our knowledge, it was made without any prior consultation with State Premiers, with State Departments of Health, with State Departments of Welfare, with local government bodies or with any voluntary organisations. A month ago, on 16 August, I placed a question on notice to the Minister asking for information about the amount of consultation which had gone on between the States and the Commonwealth and about the responses from the State Premiers. I have been favoured with an answer- coincidentally todaywhich in fact hides more information than it gives. So, in the absence of any contradictory evidence from the Minister, I take it that there has been no consultation, that when the Premiers received news of the subsidy cuts on 22 June there had been no consultation with State governments, with local government authorities or with any bodies, such as the Australian Council on the Ageing, and that the Federal Government intended just to make the cuts and to announce them without any consultation. This is what it did. 
Some two years ago the Government set up its own expert inquiries into the future of health and welfare services in this country. One inquiry was set up specifically to look into the care of the aged. Another, the Bailey task force, had something to say about how we should conduct our welfare funding and particularly how we should conduct it in view of what allegedly is Liberal Party policy.  Mr Bailey,  at page 1 of his report, as No. 4 of his findings and recommendations, states: 
During some of our many discussions reservations were expressed about the Federalism policy, the main grounds being a fear that it will be used by the Commonwealth as a cost cutting' exercise and that the objectives of some programs, if devolved, may suffer the need for consultation, for negotiation of agreements where devolution is intended, and for some assurances about continuation of programs were emphasised. 
In fact, the doubters have been proved correctthe Government is well and truly into cost cutting. At the time that  Mr Bailey  was busy investigating, we might remember that the Government was already abolishing the Australian Assistance Plan, not because it was ineffective but in order to save money. The Australian Assistance Plan also contained many programs to help the aged. At the moment the Government is cutting grants to the States for home care for the same reasons. The Government not only ignored the reservations about cost cutting outlined in the Bailey report; it also ignored the emphasis placed on consultation and negotiation in that same report. The Bailey recommendation on local government reads: 
We believe the growing awareness in local government circles of its potential to act effectively in the welfare/health field, and its growing capacity, particularly in service delivery, should be encouraged, primarily through influencing the States in this direction rather than by direct Commonwealth action. 
The Bailey task force stumped the country by telling local government bodies how appropriate it was that they should provide these services on the basis of need in their communities and by telling them that in fact this was in accordance with Government policy. But local government was not told that Federal commitments would be watered down, as is happening under this legislation, without consultation, negotiation or appeal. The Government has in fact cut the subsidy for welfare officers but has increased by nearly $400,000 the amount of money available for new appointments. The Government has said repeatedly that that is what it is doing, but that is misleading because in fact there will not be any new positions. During the past two years local government, in good faith, has appointed welfare officers and has applied for subsidies. They were not told until March 1977 that funds for this purpose were frozen. The local authorities and councils felt committed and provided the salaries for these appointments until the Commonwealth subsidy was made good. It has only just been made good. 
Much of the extra allocation will be taken up by increased salaries and will involve local governments in hundreds of thousands of dollars more to make up for the part of the subsidy which the Commonwealth is no longer paying. The additional 34 per cent which is usually the amount estimated for the cost of administrative and support services to maintain welfare officers for the aged community will also have to be found by local government. The Government has tried to say that the States and local government can find the money. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said this in a Press release on 3 August. She said: 
Provided that State Governments act responsibly within the framework of the federalism policy, there is no reason to believe that there will be any reduction in the level of welfare officer and home care services. 
I presume that the Minister would still say that if the Commonwealth reduced its contribution to one-hundredth instead of to one half. The evidence is that the States cannot and will not make up the difference. 
Calm down! Let us look at what  Sir Charles  Court and others say about it.  Sir Charles  Court said that the Commonwealth formula was the worst ever presented to the Premiers. He later threatened to withdraw from Commonwealth programs because his State was not going to be left holding the baby. 
I shall rely on more people than him. Why not look to the good strong Liberal Party Government that everyone is praising to see what its attitude is. In the Western Australian Parliament on 7 September the Honourable Lyla Elliott asked a question of the Minister for Lands who represents the Minister for Health in the Legislative Council. She said: 
In view of the announcement by the Federal Government on 22 June 1978, that subsidies for home care services and provision of welfare officers for the aged salaries under the States Grants (Home Care) Act would be reduced from $2 for $ 1 to $ 1 for $ 1 , would the Minister advise- 
1 ) Will the State increase its allocation to this area of social welfare to prevent cuts in home care services . . . 
What arrangements will be made with local government in respect to its commitment to these services? 
What steps has the State Government taken, or does it intend taking, to strongly protest to the Fraser Government about these cuts which will seriously affect a vital area of social welfare? 
The Minister, obviously a very practical man, gave a very practical answer. He said: 
The State's allocation for Home Care Services will remain the same but the cost to the State will increase because the amount received from the Commonwealth will be reduced. 
The Welfare Officers have been employed under an arrangement between the Local Authority and the Commonwealth. In the present financial constraints, it is not anticipated that the State will be in a position to provide funds for this purpose. 
So much for the Minister's idea that the States will be able to find new funds. The Minister continued: 
This is only one of a number of areas where the Commonwealth has reduced the level of funding or ceased to fund programs. Continued protests have been unsuccessful and it is unlikely that a particular protest in regard to this area would be any more successful. 
The Western Australian Government knows exactly what is going on. Funds have been cut. It cannot afford to pay any more and it is no good protesting to this Government because it will not take any notice.  Mr Jona,  the Acting Minister for Health in Victoria had something to say about this. A statement by him is quoted in a letter from the Municipal Association of Victoria. He said: 
. the State will not be able to make up the difference caused by the reduction in Commonwealth Government funding. 
In a Press release of 1 August he said: 
State funds are already committed in programmes which have been completely initiated by the State Government and for which the State Government has a moral and financial responsibility to continue. Furthermore, State funds through the Health Department will continue to be applied to meet existing jointly funded Commonwealth/State programmes where the formula has not been changed unilaterally without reference to the State. 
That of course is exactly what is happening in this case. He also made it clear that it was not easy for local government to compensate for the Fraser Government's abdication of responsibility. In the same Press release he said: 
The decision of the Federal Government can only be regretted and undoubtedly will cast additional burden on local council finances at a time when local government finances are already strained to the limit. 
Professor Henderson had already registered his dismay at the Commonwealth's decision to cut the subsidy from $2 for $ 1 to $ 1 for $ 1 . 1 think, as he said, that we should point out to the Minister that this is a cut in subsidy and not a varying of the formula which is the Government's terminology to describe what is happening. In the  Age  of 28 August 1978 Professor Henderson said that  Senator Guilfoyle  was unconvincing in her arguments. He said: 
State and local authorities are short of money this year due to the restrictions imposed by the Commonwealth . . . an excellent example of penny wise pound foolish. 
The councils and local government organisations are in no doubt as to the disastrous effect the subsidy cut will have on the provision of services to the elderly in their various regions. Fifty councils were represented at a protest meeting held in Melbourne last Wednesday, 13 September. They appointed what they called a war cabinet to discuss tactics and protest at policies they felt were shortsighted, inequitable and against community interests. It was said at that meeting that the Federal Government was paying lip service to the needs of welfare while taking money away from it. The Camberwell Council in Victoria went so far as to send a circular to all residents in which it set out the position. The circular stated: 
The slashing of home help subsidies by the Federal Government shows that it has washed its hands of the responsibility that the community should bear for its elderly and incapacitated. The Camberwell service assists between 900 and 1 ,000 people- of these 56 per cent are over 80 years and receive full pension while 38 per cent are part pensioners. Over the past 12 months Camberwell 's service has cost $350,000. Of this $71,500 is contributed by Council. If the same level of service is to be maintained, the Council 's share may increase by 70 per cent to $127,500. At present home help provides that margin of support which allows these people to remain in their homes in independence and dignity. 
Other councils have made similar calculations and know that it is impossible to provide additional services. They know that they are unlikely to be able to keep up their present services on the money they will get from the Commonwealth. They can raise extra money only from their own rates. This is a very difficult process for a local council and one which places many councils in an inconsistent position whereby they raise the rates collected from property owning pensioners and then give those same pensioners a rate rebate. This means a lot more paper work for no extra finance. It is generally recognised, I believe, that levying local government rates is an unsatisfactory way of financing health and welfare services in the community. Many members of the community are not ratepayers or they have their rates rebated. In a report by the Poverty Commission called 'The Delivery of Welfare Services' the arguments on this very subject are put in a section on local government and welfare. Page 56 of the report states: 
About one half of the revenue of local authorities comes from the levy of a general property tax, but this tax is an inappropriate one not only for financing expanded social welfare programs, but also for financing the current functions of local government. 
The Commission gives 12 or 13 reasons for this. I think it is worthwhile mentioning the main reasons. The Commission points out that rates are not a growth tax in an inflationary situation. They are a regressive tax placing a disproportionate burden on home owners. We have heard a lot of speeches in this place about that. Rates do not conform to either the benefit or the ability to pay principle when the individual taxpayer is concerned. Of course, all local authorities do not have the same tax raising capabilities. The ability of rural local governments to raise revenue is strongly related to the prosperity of rural industries, and metropolitan urban local authorities face problems because of declining population and a concentration of low income earners in many of their regions. 
The Labor Party has been very pleased to see the widening of interest of those local authorities which have set up home care services, which have appointed welfare officers to the aged and which in recent years have generally entered into the area of welfare of not only the aged of all groups. But this increased interest cannot be expected to be continued if funding is cut in this manner without warning and without consultation. Such a cut as this is a discouragement to councils which are prepared to survey and cater for the needs of the less fortunate within their boundaries. They have the aged, the ill, the handicapped, the single parent families and all sorts of groups in their areas. What hope is there for any preventive health or welfare measures in this area if the Commonwealth slashes the funds and if the States cannot make up the deficiency- as the States of Victoria and Western Australia say they cannot- and if the councils, because of their nature, cannot raise their rates even further? The situation is difficult enough for the aged, and particularly for the aged poor. It is this group which has led a lot of the protests against the Government's actions in this legislation.  Mr Pomeroy  of the Combined Pensioner Association in Box Hill was reported in his local newspaper as saying: 
For each person who manages to walk to the elderly citizens club for a meal, there are at least nine or 10 at home who are unable to make the distance. The Government has encouraged the councils to establish these services and now they're going to take it away from them. 
That is the crux of the argument and that is the basis of the very real disappointment of so many people. Professionals in the health and welfare area have warned time and time again how short-sighted it is to force aged people and others into dependence and institutional life. They point out that old people want to stay at home, in their neighbourhoods, surrounded by their own possessions and within reach of their families and friends.  Dr Van  Tiggler, Co-ordinator of Geriatric Services for the Victorian Mental Health Authority, said recently: 
No one should be forced to go into an institution because of the lack of home health. Everyone has the right to live and die in their own home. Sending an old person to a nursing home is a one-way ticket- a death sentence. 
Not only am I suggesting it in good faith but also Professor Henderson and the Council for the Ageing are suggesting in good faith that the very actions of this Bill will contribute to that sort of thing. I make no bones about that. The honourable senator will have his chance later to refute that argument and all the other arguments that have been given. I suppose the Minister may be concerned that the whole business has become an emotional issue. 
It is already an emotional issue. It always has been an emotional issue and it has become a political issue only because the Minister has chosen to reduce the subsidy for this care. I suppose one could say that all the local councils in Victoria, the Council for the Ageing, the Pensioner Association and Professor Henderson are misled, but they, of course, can only read what they see. They can only make clear interpretations from their own experiences. If they are unconvinced, as Professor Henderson was, by the Minister's reply in the  Age,  she had better try to do some more convincing. Certainly the Opposition fails to see how a reduction in a subsidy can be called 'varying the formula' and be anything other than a reduction. We know that that is what is happening. 
-The allocation in the Budget has been raised. The honourable senator is right. Let us put that in perspective. For two years no subsidy has been paid towards the costs of welfare officers whom the councils have put on in good faith. Finally the Government is measuring up to its responsibilities. As far as home health services are concerned, the additional money nominally allocated by the Commonwealth will be called on only if the States and the councils themselves can find the additional funds to contribute. These additional funds were not expected to be required. This is an unexpected burden on their budgets. If they do not find the extra money the Commonwealth will not be putting up new funds. Honourable senators can bet their lives that the Commonwealth will do its best to blame others for the lower expenditure. The Government might as well have added $ 100m or $200m to this estimate but if the States and the councils cannot find the initial funds the Government is just wasting its time by trying to fool people. That is what is happening in this area. That sort of deception is relevant but what is really relevant is the effect that this will have on the people, particularly the old and the handicapped, who are concerned. How many of them will remain hospitalised because of the uncertainty about the provision of home help services? We just do not know. Councillor Zeleznikow of Caulfield Council said: 
Longer periods of hospitalisation will ultimately mean higher costs for Australians. 
Much as the Minister may not like it, the  Age  editorial of 8 August referred to the Government's decision as: 
One of the meanest and most shortsighted of the Federal Government's welfare cutbacks . . . manifestly false economy. 
Earlier this year the Government established a policy unit within the Department of Social Security to co-ordinate policies on health and welfare. I would like to know how much coordination there was in this case. To save a few million dollars, I think generally said to be $3. 8m, did the Government count the costs in terms of hospitalisation, in terms of occupancy of nursing home beds or in any other area? Is there a policy on the economy, the efficiency or the humanity of giving the frail aged and the disabled the ability to remain at home with community services? Is there a policy on community services generally and on whether these services should be contracted or expanded? I remind the Senate as I did earlier that when the Australian Assistance Plan was axed, at least 50 ongoing projects for assisting old people, with handyman and meal services which were community-based and largely voluntary, were axed at the same time. As Professor Henderson has said, in this action the Government has been 'penny wise and pound foolish'. 
Experience in Australia and overseas has shown that as the Federal Government moves away from funding welfare projects they tend to contract. The very real difficulties of local governments in finding more money, about which we have spoken earlier, and the squeeze on the States- Labor and Liberal- about which they talk continually, points to the same sort of thing happening in this area. I believe that local government in this country can very well determine the need and the delivery of health services. But to do so it needs the stimulus, guidance and financial support of an assured Commonwealth program, not a program which can be cut without consultation by the mere announcement of a Minister at a Premiers Conference. The Commonwealth is involved in other areas. It is involved in the provision of meals-on-wheels and other such assistance. The subsidy for that provision has not increased for some years but at least it has not been cut. Up until now the councils assumed that it never would be cut, but what can they think in the future? At last Wednesday's meeting 50 Victorian councils called on members of Parliament on both sides to prevent the erosion of financial support to councils for home care and welfare officers. I suppose today we will see whether they get any more sympathetic response than they did in another place. I know that some honourable senators on the opposite side are not mesmerised by official figures. 
Of course we know that the allocation of money goes up as local government assumes more responsibility in agreement with the States but as the State allocation has dropped from the basis of $4 to $ 1 in response to cuts from this Government, local governments cannot depend on the money and the community therefore cannot depend on the services. It is the cuts contained in this legislation that should be worrying members of the Senate this afternoon. They should be concerning supporters of the Government in the Senate, as they obviously concerned  Mr Shipton  and others in the other House when the cuts were first announced, even if they did not do anything about the legislation when it first came before their own House of Parliament. Every government report issued in the last five or ten years has urged support for domiciliary services, for increased support and in fact, one report advocated a doubling of the current subsidy. It goes against commonsense, expert opinion, and common humanity to cut subsidies like this and to cut them without consultation and without negotiation. I add that I believe it goes against Liberal Party policy. The Liberal Party health policy says: 
We will encourage people to remain in their home or familiar social environment with a comprehensive home care program which would include assistance with home alterations, and community supports such as half-way houses, short-term nursing beds and hostels. 
A Liberal and National Country Party Government will therefore consider extending the provision of home nursing care and home help. 
The Government has not delivered an expanded nursing care benefit, which was promised during the last election campaign, and now it has cut home care and welfare subsidies. The Opposition believes that it is time it put its policies into operation. It is for this reason that we join with all those other people in the community who are protesting at the cuts in the Commonwealth subsidy for this important, humane and vital area of home help. We will add to our protest by voting against this legislation in this House. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill. It is obvious to everyone that this Bill will extend for another year the operation of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. But we certainly have questions to ask, particularly in relation to what the Government has in mind for the future of this program, which was initiated by the Labor Government in 1974 to devise ways of supporting destitute people in the community who were without community support and settled homes of their own. 
In November last year, before the election, we had before us a Bill which was similar to this one. Its purpose was to extend the then program for a further year. During that debate many people in the House talked of the traditional group who have been covered by the Homeless Persons Assistance Act since 1 974. We talked about the fact that these were typically men who were homeless, destitute and more vulnerable to the problems and illnesses which beset our society than most people in the society. They were vulnerable to injustice under the law because of our outmoded laws on vagrancy and drunkenness. Their desperation made them prone to commit petty crime and their weakness made them prone to be the victims of all sorts of crimes, both petty and otherwise. 
Such people are vulnerable to the diseases of our society- invalidity due to accidents of which they have a greater proportion than others in the community. They have a higher incidence of epilepsy, venereal disease, heart disease, bronchial disease and liver disease. Of course, some of them are subject to the ravages of alcoholism. These people have a low life expectancy. Their average age is only 46 years, despite their appearances. The average age, in fact, is dropping because of the devastating social effects of longterm unemployment. A common complaint made by those who are helping the homeless men in our community is that the average age is falling because of unemployment. They are getting a different sort of person in their rufuges because of the unemployment situation which is facing this community. 
Of course, there are other groups which many honourable senators have mentioned and which could come under legislation like this. They may do so in the future if some of the Minister's projections from past years become true. These groups include women who need protection in shelters, the increasing numbers of young homeless people as job opportunities decrease and as society's problems become difficult with increasing unemployment. The Salvation Army, St Vincent de Paul and the various other city missions in our cities and towns cannot be expected forever to bear completely society's burden for homeless persons as they have in the past. We certainly believe that they need more help. In 1974  Mr Hayden  certainly believed that they needed help. The size and nature of the problem facing us is evidenced in information available in the Poverty Commission's reports on this subject- I refer particularly to health studies of selected disadvantaged groups and homeless persons and the law- together with the excellent document which was recently produced by the Department of Social Security called 'A Place of Dignity'. I believe that these documents should be read and considered by all senators. 
As I have said, almost a year ago just before the last election a Bill was rushed into the Parliament to extend the homeless persons assistance program from a three-year to a four-year program. It would otherwise have come to a conclusion with the onset of the December 1977 election. The reason given at that time was that the Government had not yet devised a firm direction for the program and had not yet finished considering the Bailey task force report on health and welfare. In fact, it was one of the last occasions on which we heard anything about the report of the Bailey task force. The Minister made it clear in her second reading speech that the Government wished to consider the implications of this report before proceeding with the matter. This reason which was advanced had not stopped the Government's consideration of any other programs investigated by  Mr Bailey.  Lacking a firm program, the Government gave  Mr Bailey's  report as the reason for doing no more than giving one year's extension last year. We are now considering an extension of another year. The purpose of the Bill is exactly the same as that of last year's measure.  Mr Bailey's  report is no longer given as the reason for extending the program. This time we have a new notion, and that is that full consultation is to be held with State governments on future arrangements to meet the needs of homeless people in the light of experience with the program to date. 
We have just concluded consideration of the States Grants (Home Care) Bill, a measure which reduces subsidies for home care services for States and which, in turn, we assert will reduce their subsidies to local government which will either reduce services to the frail aged or make it necessary for local government to find more money from ratepayers. At this time there is some confusion as to what will happen. We assert that certainly some services will have to be cut or not increased in the manner in which we think they should be increased. We are being given warning that the homeless persons assistance program, with its fairly clear lines of communication to State consultative bodies and its fairly clear lines of communication to voluntary organisations which care for the homeless, is to be passed across to the States. 
One can assume only that, as last year the program was extended to allow time for consideration of the Bailey task force report, this year it is being extended to allow time for consideration and consultation with the States. To us that means that inevitably there is going to be a further devolution and pushing across of responsibilities to the States. That is something about which I do not particularly argue but with this Government it inevitably means pushing across to the States responsibility for the funding. As the means which the States have to raise those funds are limited, and as they are certainly not based on our usual principles of ability to pay, one can be concerned about what might happen in future. I believe we can legitimately ask whether the States are being given notice that they might be asked to fund or to control this program for which they have previously had no responsibility. In the light of recent experiences of the States accepting the burden of Commonwealth programs, how keen will they be to take on the responsibility of meeting the future needs of the homeless persons- needs which are recognised in all of the reports which have been made to this Parliament on this subject. 
The Minister has recommended for our interest a document called 'A Place of Dignity'. I certainly back up that recommendation. This report was tabled in the Parliament early this year and was written in the Minister's Department as a result of surveys done to evaluate the operation of this program during the previous 3 years. I might add that the title of the report comes from the speech of  Mr Bill  Hayden, Leader of the Opposition, who as Minister for Social Security introduced the program in 1 974. He introduced it with these words: 
This BUI is designed to provide both a reasonable standard of support and increased opportunities for homeless people, enabling them to obtain a place of dignity in the fabric of Australian society. 
In regard to the funding of this program, the findings outlined in the report 'A Place of Dignity 'state: 
There was overwhelming agreement that the Federal Government should have chief responsibility for providing the money for homeless persons assistance . . . and corresponding rejection of the proposition that State governments should have chief responsibility . . . However, most thought that local government has an important part to play as a supplier of special services for homeless people. 
That is to be found on page 58 of the report. Again, as with other reports on other subjects, there is overwhelming evidence that organisations working with the homeless do not want State governments to take over financial responsibility. As State governments have had no experience in administering this program, I wonder what the Government's motivation is in being so concerned about apparently trying to pass this program and others across to the States. I believe that if there are consultations on this line or on any other lines with the States the Minister should keep the Parliament informed, as well as the organisations which depend on finances through the homeless persons assistance program. We should not have the sort of situation which we have had previously under the States Grants (Home Care) Act in which decisions were made apparently without any consultation at all. Some of the confusion and anxiety about which the Minister spoke arose after her announcement of the changes to the States Grants (Home Care) Act. In fact, it arose because of the lack of consultation, because there was no negotiation, just a bald statement from the Government that the program would be changed. It is worth noting- I do not raise this in any contentious manner- that although the program has been extended for two years from the 1977-78 Budget no extra finance has been provided. In last year's Budget we were given a figure of $5. 75m for capital works. This amount will be used for this program in the next financial year. As I said last year, I appreciate that many projects which are put up for approval in this area have a fairly long gestation period because organisations, apart from having more enthusiasm than cash, frequently face delays from local government,  planning  authorities and appeals from residents. We are a difficult society at times when people try to establish programs like the traditional homeless persons assistance program. I do not claim that any more money or more speedy administrative processes could have been provided. It is possible but we do not know. We do not have information on this. I believe we should have it. I point out that by extending the program for two years the Government has merely kept the legislation in being to give effect to approvals and financial transfers on the basis of last year's Budget. That is certainly no measure of additional generosity, whether there should be any or not. 
One of the themes implicit in the legislation since its inception, and a strong theme in 'A Place of Dignity' and in other papers and documents on this subject, has been the undesirability of treating homeless persons as outcasts and the desirability of considering them as members of our society who need short term or long term help to survive and who can often be assisted to find a more satisfactory way of life- frequently to find a job- as a result of the facilities provided. As has often been discussed, these facilities do not always mean just dormitory facilities in which people can sleep. We can have situations like Club 139 in Queensland. These people merely need a place to meet; a place where they can have an address, receive advice and gain some confidence which frequently they have not had in the past. We should always recognise that the problems they face mainly are personal ones which have kept them apart from family and friends, and that their way of life without a settled environment adds to the problems. All the surveys have shown that very few of these people are free of illnesses. Many are alcoholics. Many have a degree of psychiatric disorientation which may be primary to their problem but which is often secondary to the difficulties which arise from their homelessness. I suggest that those who have not done so will learn a good deal from a reading of the report on the health screening of homeless men in Sydney called Health Studies of Selected Disadvantaged Groups'. This report was produced by the Henderson poverty commission. It can teach us a lot about who is in this group of people, and it can also remove some of the misconceptions about these people which are frequently around in the community. We know from this survey that of the heavy drinkers in the group half were regularly heavy drinkers before the age of 19 years. This is something which is significant when considered in the light of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare of which  Senator Baume  is the  chairman  and I and others are members. The Committee has pointed out the great difficulties created in this society by alcohol. It is interesting to note that 8816 per cent of those surveyed were smokers, against only 48 per cent of the industrial workers in our community. Those in the survey had four times the incidence of heart disease, twice the incidence of high blood pressure and three times the incidence of bronchial disease. 
In the past these people have been largely defined in our community by their use of institutions and facilities for destitute people. In general, as I have said previously, they are destitute men. They know the shelters in the cities and towns, the meals, the rules and their companions in the same straits. They tend to gather together. It is because of the way society has seen destitute people- without a settled home, associating in areas like this-that more provision has been made for them in the past. It was to give extra support to people trying to provide this meagre shelter and sustenance and to give them support to give counselling and medical care- and where appropriate rehabilitation and work preparation was necessary to give this support- that this program was started. I believe that the program should continue. Inadequate as it may be, many people would be much worse off without it. We can learn a lot from this program, and about how we should plan for the future. The program should also move on. Those who want to be part of the community outside the walls of institutions in these circumstances should have provision made for group housing or for single rooms in inexpensive areas. Rights, privacy, the opportunity for companionship- even of the opposite sexrights to legal aid and employment are matters raised by homeless men who were asked in the various surveys to talk about their various situations. We should recognise these rights and do what we can to protect the rights of people in these institutions rather than consider them in the narrow manner in which we have tended to do in the past. 
We have always favoured institutions, I believe, because they keep homeless men off the streets. The same unfortunate people in the past were always expected in some way to show gratitude to society for providing these institutions. But I believe that the time has now come to consider special services and for homeless people to have direct access to them. Understanding from welfare agencies and even banks and medical services can be a big factor in building up selfrespect in these people, as can the establishment of a rights program to lessen the sort of authoritarian structure that we have used to deal with these people in the past. It is important that we get away from the sort of thinking that we had in the past that put us into a strait-jacket on how we would consider these people. It is important that we change- if necessary by publicity and education- society's attitude to these people from the narrow thinking we have had in the past, the tendency to push them away into alleys in certain sections of the city, to keep them away from our comfortable existence. Society generally has been uncomfortable in the presence of people looked after under this program. Local councils do not like them because of the obvious social problems that sometimes are associated with them. Ratepayers do not like them because they think they will send down the valuations of their houses. We have had this very sad picture. So far the emphasis of this program has been on capital works- bricks, mortar, shelter and sustenance. But a rights program and an improved staffing program perhaps should have a higher priority in the next phase of the scheme. 
I take it that the scheme will not conclude at the end of five years as some people may have expected. I expect that the results of the many evaluations that we have had in this area and the response that so many organisations have made to this very real problem should produce results worthy of the society in which we live. It may even be that we, and the Minister, should consider the appointment of a welfare rights officer for homeless persons, not necessarily attached to particular organisations as such people tend to be, say, in the ethnic communities, but appointed in one of the major cities to take up cases and make recommendations to the Department of Social Security and others on positive ways of helping these people to find a more satisfying place in the community. The inclusion of these people for the benefit of the whole community is of great importance. So far it has been reasonable that the organisations involved in helping the homeless should be able to continue their interest and develop their building and operational plans. Their interest is proven and certainly consistent in the very difficult circumstances. 
The report 'A Place of Dignity' indicates that new ideas have not been prominent so far and that the organisations involved in this area have had difficulties in developing new ideas because of the very real restraints society has put on their work. I refer not only to financial and social restraints but also to restraints caused by the narrow thinking of the past. It is important to remember, as I said, that an increasing number of displaced young people will be in need of accommodation. This may be the catalyst in looking at homeless persons as if they have a future and not only looking at them as if they have only a past, as we have tended to do previously. 
People can say many other things about the homeless persons program. I daresay honourable senators will say them in the debate. Many areas, including homeless women and children, and girls in need of protection, could well come under such a program but have not done so in the past. As long at our program encourages independence, as long at it encourages rehabilitation in society and not exclusion from society, we probably will go in the right direction. We should not be afraid of failure, particularly in this area. If a government sets up programs or assists private organisations in establishing programs and some fail or some are seen later, after evaluation, to have been going in the wrong direction, we should not be discouraged or allow people to be discouraged; nor should we turn back from supporting programs for homeless people and other destitute people in general. We are too prone in this society to consider that failure means the end of government programs or the programs of voluntary organisations. With built-in evaluation in future programs and with careful surveying of future programs we should proceed and have greater success and end up in the right direction. If we have successful programs whereby these people are included in society, they can approach their own situation with more confidence and vigour. Organisations can probably be less restrictive, less protective and less paternalistic than in the past. The users of their services will become more assured and they will be able to assist us in the future development of schemes like this. 
As I pointed out initially, we do not oppose the legislation. We look forward to hearing from the Minister in future on the developments which will come from her consultations with the States. We hope that the Government does not intend merely to take part in a process of devolution of this whole program across to the States without considering the very real problems of financial responsibility. We hope that the consultations will be real and that the Commonwealth, with its quite considerable experience in this area, will be able to develop a national program so that all members of our society in this difficult situation will be treated as equals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and follows that asked by  Senator Harradine.  Why has the Government changed its mind and gone completely contrary to the plans that the Minister gave us in the Senate in August? How much money will be saved in next year's expenditure by this new proposal? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
How many members of the Greek community in Sydney who were charged with alleged social security frauds have been granted Commonwealth legal aid. 
How many have been refused such legal aid, and for what reason. 
What limitations have been placed on the legal aid made available to those granted it. 
What is the cost to date of legal aid. 
-The Opposition opposes the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill. The Bill was the subject of considerable debate in another place. We certainly do not wish to extend the program of the Senate unnecessarily in our opposition to the Bill in this place. Three basic reasons were given in the other place for our opposition to this Bill. Firstly, we believe that it is wrong in principle for the Government to make this move to transfer the fund raising capacities of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority to the open market before the people of the Australian Capital Territory have proper representative government and are properly responsible for their own affairs. We think that it is rushing the process to do so. We think that it may lead to complications in the control of the ACT electricity supply. The people of the ACT should have proper representation in the establishment and the functioning of this 
Authority. Until they have we believe that it is only proper that the Government should continue to fund the Authority in the manner in which it has done so in the past. 
Secondly, we point out that the transfer of such fund raising from the Budget to the open market is, in fact, another means of reducing the amount of government expenditure in the Budget and artificially reducing the Budget deficit. I have no wish to extend the debate; I merely express our opposition to this move. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask whether the arrangements that she announced were going to apply to the previous income test will apply to this income test also? In other words, will the family allowance be withheld, or partly withheld, from mothers of those children who between June 1977 and June 1978 earned and spent income of more than $20 a week, unaware that a mother would be penalised for the whole of the next year because of what had been earned in the previous year? 
I wish to take advantage of the Standing Orders which allow me to speak on any subject on the first reading of a money Bill. I give warning that I will ignore the subject of the Bills, namely, the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. Even though that subject is important to me and dear to my heart, I will leave any remarks I have to make on it to the second reading debate. 
This is the first opportunity that the Opposition has had to comment on the Government's newproposals for the family allowance. I want to make some comments, firstly, on the manner in which they were introduced and, secondly, on some of the effects that the Opposition believes will result from these changes. There are two aspects of the situation. The first relates to the answers given by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to various questions on this subject in the chamber in August and this week, and I am sure I will not be the only  speaker  on that subject this afternoon. The second, and equally important, matter is what will happen to the family allowance scheme when the changes are introduced. 
I shall start by pointing out that the family allowance was introduced in August 1976 as a replacement for the child endowment scheme and the tax rebates which were available in respect of children. This innovation has positive advantages. The payments went to poor people who did not pay tax, whereas previously tax rebates were unavailable to them. Under any system the rebate would have been indexed and increased according to the increase in the rate of inflation, and the Opposition pointed out at the time that the family allowance similarly should be indexed and should increase at the same rate as inflation if it were to be a reasonable replacement for the tax rebate. With this proviso, the Opposition certainly did not oppose the legislation introducing these changes; we agreed with it. The child endowment and tax rebate schemes which previously existed were both a recognition of the fact that to rear a child costs money and that families with children, whether they are rich or poor families, had expenses associated with child rearing. Therefore the Government, through the Taxation Office, recognised those expenses and allowed a rebate and, through the Department of Social Security, also recognised those disadvantages and paid child endowment. That endowment had not been increased for many years and had lost much of its significance. 
Another important factor is that these family allowance payments, except in the few cases where there is no mother, are paid to the mother. This is an important point. It was recognised by the Opposition and the Government at the time of the introduction of the new family allowance. Much was made in that debate of the fact that the new family allowance was a recognition of the work of the mother in the home- inadequate as that recognition may have been- and was an important part payment to a mother to assist her in rearing a child. It has never been suggested, since child endowment was introduced or since the family allowance scheme was introduced, that these payments should be considered a pension in any sense of the word and available only to those who pass a certain means test. They were payments in recognition of the fact that it costs money to rear children. In August 1976 when the family allowance scheme was introduced there was much fanfare and backslapping but we on this side of the chamber had some suspicion that it was being introduced to avoid the indexation of the tax rebates. We also had some suspicion that the family allowance would not be increased regularly. The Opposition had no suspicion that the Government would wish to modify this scheme as quickly as it has in order to cut public expenditure. 
In this year's Budget there was an extraordinary proposal- the income of the child for whose benefit the allowance was paid was to be subject to an income test. The upper limit, as honourable senators will recall, was to be $3 12 a year or $6 a week. It was quickly recognised, on both sides of the House, outside the Parliament, in the media and by various organisations- one could go on endlessly naming the organisations which recognised this fact- that this was going to be unfair and would produce the ridiculous situation whereby paper boys and kids who work in milk bars, chemist shops and so on, would be deprived of family allowances because they were earning a few dollars. The volume of the protests from within and without the Parliament was such that the Government backpedalled quickly and modified its approach. On any reading of  Hansard  it can be seen that the Minister gave assurances- whatever the Minister may say now- that income derived from the personal exertion of the child would not be considered part of the income test. She said it not once but several times in answer to questions asked by many honourable senators. She also said it in Press statements and in television interviews outside this Parliament. Either the Government has changed its mind or the Minister was misleading the Senate in August. I believe that this is a serious matter. The suggestion of misleading the Senate should be taken seriously. Other honourable senators will take up that matter today. 
At the same time I want to concentrate on another important aspect- the injustices and the administrative difficulties which will arise following the introduction of this new family allowance scheme. One could call it the family allowances scheme mark III in view of the changes we have had to it since it was introduced in 1976. The matter of the Minister's answers to questions asked in the Senate is important and will be taken up later, but the Government should not be allowed to cover up the fact that the family allowance scheme has lost much of its benefit and that the changes will have serious effects on those who come under this legislation. The Opposition believes that the proposals of the Government are in many cases unfair, are administratively clumsy and will cause considerable confusion. They will bring into disrepute a reasonable scheme which is of considerable benefit to the people. 
I shall deal now with some of the difficulties which will arise. The first and most obvious fault in the new proposals is that they will penalise poor families the most, as do so many of this Government 's actions. There may not even be a large number of poor families affected but individually they will be affected and those who will be affected the most will be the poorest. In some families, particularly those on benefits or on minimum wages, the children earn their own pocket money, sometimes to the extent of $20 or $30 a week, and sometimes even $40 a week, by delivering newspapers, selling newspapers, working in shops and in part time jobs in factories, and doing various other jobs in the community. It is frequently the only way they can raise money for further study, for musical instruments, for field trips at school, for extra clothes, and for the extra things other children have. In future if they earn sufficient money they will be torn between having these little extras and taking away from their mother the family allowance money she needs to feed, shelter and clothe them and to assist in providing them with the normal necessities of life. Children of rich families do not need to work but they frequently do. Such families will not notice the drop in income which may result from this provision. But the very poor families- and there are very poor families- will notice it. 
Let me give an example. A widow who has two or three children and who is receiving the widow's pension is at present, as Professor Henderson has pointed out many times, some $20 below the poverty Une in this country. If one of her children earned $30 a week by working weekends in a supermarket, which many children do- I know children who do this- she would in fact lose her family allowance for that child, she would be forced further below the poverty line than she was before and the child's efforts to assist his mother to achieve a more reasonable level of income would be defeated. 
If the first child earns sufficient money to cause the family allowance received by his mother for him to be eliminated, it would seem from the answers given by the Minister in the past that the second child will attract a family allowance of only $3.50 a week instead of $5 a week and the family allowance for the third child will be reduced to $5 a week. Therefore, a mother of three children who has one child who becomes ineligible for the family allowance will lose not only the $3.50 a week in respect of that child but also $2.50 a week in respect of the next two children, who will become respectively the first and second children instead of the second and third children. She will forego some $6 a week in family income. This is a considerable amount of money for a woman who is already below the poverty line. It will place her further below the poverty line. That is quite unfair. 
The second unfair feature of the new proposals is the fact that they are to be made retrospective. In the Minister's own words the proposal is that the mother will lose her allowance next year- after 1 January- in respect of income which was earned by the child between July 1977 and June 1978. In other words, from July 1977 to June 1978 a child may have been earning $20, $25 or $30 a week completely unaware that in the 1978-79 Budget the Government would introduce a proposal which would deprive his mother of part or all of her family allowance in 1979, depending on what was earned from July 1977 to June 1978. That is retrospectivity. One cannot argue with it. There are difficulties which arise out of this situation- difficulties which need to be resolved and which we tried to resolve when the first proposal was brought forward in the Budget. What happens to the child who earns, say, $30 or $25 a week when he is 15 and who at the end of that year leaves school, earns an income and therefore is not eligible to attract a family allowance? Does this mean that the family of the child who is in his last year at school will get the full family allowance when he is 1 5 years of age and that the following year that family would not be affected because the child would no longer be eligible for the family allowance? If so, that child 's family would have a considerable advantage over the family whose child continues at school for two or more years. The possibilities of inequity and confusion in this area are quite considerable and we believe that they need to be explained. 
The third difficulty is that this proposal would well force back into dependency single working parents who, without the family allowance, are better off receiving a pension. We in this community are supposed to encourage people to get away from dependency on the Government and people on both sides of the Parliament would agree with that view. It is quite wrong to deprive single parents, widows or any other low income people in the community of a family allowance on the basis of what their children earn. Payment of the family allowance is made to the mother. To deprive a family of the family allowance on the basis of what the children earn in an effort to assist that family's income is quite wrong and may well put it back into a situation of dependency on the Government which it does not want and in which it need not be. In many cases, the drop in the family income, as I demonstrated with the case of the widow, will be such as to cause people to drop below the poverty line if they are not already there now. 
For instance, a child who earned $40 or $30 a week in 1977-78 will be responsible for his mother losing in 1979 at least $3.50 a week. She will lose that if he is the first child. The child may not be able to earn the same amount of income in 1979 or he may consider it better not to do so if his mother is to lose the family allowance in 1 980 as a result of his earning income in 1979. The family may decide to forgo the family allowance because of the child 's income. Alternatively- this unfortunately will happen- the family may decide not to declare the child's income. This is encouraging tax evasion and avoidance of one's responsibilities at an earlier age than has been encouraged in this country in the past. 
As  Senator Georges  says, we are potentially going to force kids into telling lies about where their income comes from and the amount of income they have earned. We are doing this unnecessarily. We are doing this for what the Minister for Social Security claimed would be a gain of some $31m. However, she later agreed that no one really knows how much money will be saved. The Treasury claims that it will be $31m and the Department of Social Security has no idea how much the saving will be. I suppose that the Government could even be said to be discouraging children from earning money and gaining early work force experience, which is something they may well need in the future. 
I think we should look at the administrative situation which will arise out of these proposals. The Minister said this morning that initially some 400 staff are expected to be put on to process the income statements received from these children. This is in addition to the 900-odd staff who have already been put on by the Department of Social Security this year. It is interesting to note that in the Budget documents an increase of only five staff was allowed in the family allowance section when the previous proposals were introduced. Those proposals involved sending income statement to just as many people in the community as will be involved under this proposal. The increased staff claimed to be needed in the Budget was five. The Minister now tells us that the number needed is 400. That is an extraordinary difference, which suggests to me and people on this side of the House that the Government had not really thought through the problems that it would be bringing upon itself when it put forward this proposal in the Budget. 
Some two million people in this community will have to be contacted on behalf of some  4V*  million children and they will have to answer questionnaires on how much those children earned from all sorts of sources. One may well ask how people with language difficulties or literacy difficulties will cope with these questionnaires. After all, we are told that 270,000 people in Sydney alone are functionally illiterate because they simply cannot handle the bureaucratic hassle. There are many people who fall into that category. What will happen to those people who do not reply to the questionnaire and those who never receive the questionnaire because of the ordinary administrative snafu or muckups that always happen in this sort of situation? Will they be automatically refused a family allowance? 
What provision has been made for investigations to be carried out about the people who have not sent in their particulars. Are poor migrant families or poor families of any group in the community who through no fault of their own do not get their income statements in on time to be arbitrarily deprived of family allowances for which they are presently eligible? If so, what appeal provisions will be made available to them? How long will these appeals take and will the number of people on the appeals tribunals in the Department of Social Security be increased? Will the amount of money which was provided in the Budget be increased to provide for the increased number of appeals which obviously will occur? We could end up with an administrative nightmare as  Senator Knight  suggested in his question to the Minister for Social Security this morning. 
Why is the Government taking this action? Why is it necessary? Is it really essential for the benefit of this community that an ill-conceived, ill-thought-out measure such as this be introduced to save some $30m? Will it really save $30m or, as the Minister suggested this morning, does the Government really have no idea how much will be saved? Is the Treasury just taking a guess? It is also worth mentioning in passing that the Minister gave as the reason for putting a limit of $20 a week on a child's income before he or she will lose any family allowance that this would bring the amount into line with the limit for pensioners. A pensioner can earn $20 a week before his pension is reduced. I have pointed out, and others undoubtedly will point out, that this payment is not and never was a pension. In making this statement the Minister automatically and once again downgraded those who receive unemployment or sickness benefits who can earn only $6 a week before their benefits or pensions are reduced. We believe that this House, this Parliament and the public in general need a lot more explanation of just what is going on. We need an explanation firstly of the difference between the Minister's answers to people such as  Senator Harradine, Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Wriedt  and others in August of last year and what is being done now. We certainly need clear indications of just how much is really to be saved by this proposal. 
It was alleged that the original proposal would save $90m in part of a year and therefore, we assumed, considerably more in a full year. We are told that this proposal will save $31m without being given any proof or indication of where that money will be saved. As the Minister said, her Department does not know. We also want to know what will happen in the real administrative jungle that will be created by this proposal. What will happen to the people who do not get their returns in, the people who have difficulties with the bureaucracy already, the people whose children earned over $30 a week in 1977-78 and then earn nothing in 1 979? Will the parents of these children really be deprived of their family allowances in 1979 on the basis of something their children earned in 1977 and 1978? It is worth realising that when earning this money these people did not know then that the Government would take this action. 
As I have said, the introduction of family allowances was welcome and was not opposed by the Opposition. They were introduced as a result of a recommendation of Professor Henderson's Commission of Inquiry into Poverty to bring more equity into the old system of tax rebates and child endowment. Their value has been eroded because they have not been increased since they were introduced. Their value will be further eroded by this proposal. The sad part of this proposal is that once again the Government's changes will affect the poorest in the community. Although they will affect the middle income and high income earners they will not affect them to any extent that will cause them great distress. But this proposal will cause distress to some very poor families in the community. The proposal will also affect some women in the community who sometimes find that the only income or personal money they receive is the family allowance payment. If these women or poor families are to be deprived of these payments in part or whole by this proposal it is an unjust measure. We need much further explanation as to why it has been introduced than we have had from the Minister and the Government in the past. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) On what date did the Prime Minister communicate with the State Premiers informing them of the cuts in subsidy rates and allocation of finance under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969. 
What responses have been received from the State Premiers. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Have the representations and protests by various organisations within and outside the Parliament had any effect on the Government's Budget proposals to income test family allowances and to tax invalid pensions and allowances payable to rehabilitees? If they have had such an effect, how will such changes affect Government revenue and expenditure in the forthcoming year? 

 Senator GUILFOYLE The Government has reviewed all aspects of the proposed changes that were announced in the Budget and subsequently with regard to family allowances. In view of the administrative complexities and the inequities which could arise between families with regard to the means testing of family allowances, it has been decided that the present arrangement for family allowances will continue. That is, the family allowance scheme will be a universal benefit on behalf of Australian children. Present arrangements will continue with regard to student children, with the exception of those who receive a Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance. As announced in the Budget, there will no longer be dual payments of the TEAS allowance and the family allowance, but the TEAS allowance has been increased to take account of that change. 
As regards the matter of the taxing of sheltered employment allowances, it is not strictly within my ministerial responsibility to announce such changes as they are related to the responsibilities of the Treasurer and of the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents him. However, if the Leader of the Government in the Senate will permit me, I am able to say that the Cabinet has reviewed the taxing of sheltered employment allowances and either the Leader of the Government in the Senate or the Treasurer will be making the appropriate announcement that the Government has decided not to tax such allowances. My understanding of the effect of these changes on the Budget is that it was expected that some $16m would have been saved in the family allowance area and some $3m in the other pension area. I think I should leave the precise figures to the Treasurer to announce. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. How much does the Government expect to save by indexing pensions only once a year instead of twice a year? Will those savings justify the Government's breach of one of its proudest promises and boasts in the last two years? 
-This evening I make my third attempt in as many weeks to speak to this report. It looks as though tonight I will be able to say a little more than I said the last time and perhaps the time before. The  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare,  Senator Baume,  when introducing this subject some three weeks ago, pointed out that at that time the Committee had been very concerned to ensure that, in future, debate and investigation of the problems of drug abuse in this country was looked at in a serious way by this Parliament, by the public and by everyone concerned, as free as possible from the emotional atmosphere in which this subject is usually considered so that we can ask the right questions and get the right answers as to how to attack what is a very real problem in some areas of this country. 
The last time I spoke I had started to read some of the reactions to this report from people in Australia and overseas. I remember that just before the Senate adjourned I had threatened to read a large number of letters which were available to the Committee and which dealt with the report. However, I will spare those honourable senators here tonight the tedium of my reading them all because earlier on the natives were a bit restless and, being a pacificist by nature, I do not want to provoke anything unnecessarily. 
I think it is important to realise that the Committee's report has been accepted here and overseas in a very serious manner. The people who have read it and studied it consider it to be a good report. I believe that their recommendations are sufficient to make this Senate and the public take the report seriously and take the very problem that the report talks about seriously. Only a few days ago,  Dr Mahler,  the DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organisation, wrote to  Mr Thomson,  who is the Secretary of the Committee, thanking him for providing a copy of the report. He commented that the World Health Organisation had studied the report and thought that the report presented a logical, common sense approach to dealing with alcohol-related problems and drug dependence and that, if implemented, would provide a sound basis for national policy.  Dr Mahler  went on to say: 
The section of your Committee's report on drug abuse is very well documented and comprehensive and does not appear to have a particular bias in the cannabis area, which is often prevalent. The problem has been dealt with in a pragmatic and realistic way and the recommendations reflect an in-depth study of the problem in Australia. 
Last week I read out the comments of  Dr R.  L. DuPont, who is the Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse in the United States. The Committee has actually received favourable comment from people like Professor Ian Webster, who is Professor of Community Medicine at the University of New South Wales, Professor Ryan of the University of Queensland,  Dr Hetzel,  the Chief of the Division of Human Nutrition of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and various authorities, such as the Australian Foundation of Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the Uniting Church in Australia. A wide variety of people in this country has taken this report seriously. These people are using it in teaching, as a data source, in their investigations and in their thoughts on what should be done about the drug problem. It is important that the rest of us look at this problem in the same manner as the Senate Committee looked at it and accept that we have to approach the problem of drug abuse in a rational and unemotional way. 
It is a pity that when the Senate Committee's report was released a few items appeared in the local Press and other media and that the Committee was immediately attacked by people who had not read the report and who had preconceived ideas. We had from people such as the Premier of Queensland comments that we were doing the work of communist infiltrators in this country. The Reverend Fred Nile apparently thought that we were doing the work of the devil. Other people in the community, without reading the report and without really considering the problems and the recommendations, immediately made judgments of this type. One found that  Senator Peter  Baume and  Senator Walters  were in league with the devil and the communists and all sorts of people because of their presence on this Committee. I am always considered to be in league with the devil and the communists in this country. It is this sort of attitude to this report and its findings which is so often seen in the community in the debate on the drug problem itself. The Committee mentions in the report that unless we get away from this sort of dogmatic attitude and take a proper approach, we will continue on as we have been doing, spending vast sums of money and vast amounts of energy and producing pages and pages of words about the problem. All the time the problem gets worse, the volume of drugs abused and consumed gets bigger and bigger and the only people who benefit from investigations are the printers, the researchers who get paid and those who are pushing the drugs. 
Because our resources are finite it is important that the community comes to realise that we have to establish a list of priorities in dealing with this problem as with any other problem and that when one considers the volume most of our problems lie in the field of alcohol and tobacco. This does not mean that we should ignore the abuse of cannabis, of heroin, of illicit drugs or of analgesics, but it means that if we are to get a rational return for our efforts we must concentrate on the very real problems of the abuse of alcohol and tobacco in this country. I spoke a little about this last time and the time before and  Senator Peter  Baume spoke at considerable length. We must realise that the big problem is alcohol and that the second big problem is tobacco and we must get the community to realise that. We must overcome the very real problems of the vested interests of the manufacturers of those products- I am not condemning them personally for their efforts to protect their industries- and the very real efforts of the advertising industry which seems to have taken a personal dislike to the  Chairman  of the Committee and to have used him as the whipping boy when approaching the recommendations of this Committee with regard to advertising. We must realise that we must overcome those vested interests if we are going to get anywhere and accept that they have the right to express those views; but we must reply to them with hard facts, where we have them, and with hard data and not with the same sort of emotional arguments which are so often used right across the broad spectrum of the drug debate in this community. 
I suppose that the area which caused most controversy was the chapter on cannabis and in dealing with cannabis the Committee was not unanimous. This disagreement in the Committee was the result of an examination of the facts and was partly a result of philosophical differences; but it was not the result of personal enmity or in any way of blind prejudice and it is important that such differences, where they exist, are brought out and discussed. In fact the split in the Committee reflects very much the division in the community. We would have had a false report, I believe, if the Committee had reached a unanimous report in view of the state of our knowledge of cannabis and the state of the political nature of our community because the community, as the report said, is polarised over the use of cannabis. Cannabis is very much a political and emotional problem as well as a medical and scientific problem and the debate, therefore, will be a political and emotional debate, as we see it. 
The problem of dealing with the policy on cannabis in the community is aggravated, as it is so often in the fields of social welfare and medical policy, by a lack of certainty about the facts and a certain amount of conflict about those facts and figures which are available. The first thing to remember, I believe, is that although cannabis has been known since antiquity, has been used commonly in all sorts of civilisations over the years, was once legal in this community and was once used quite frequently by the medical profession in this community, we in fact still know less about its biochemistry, its metabolism, its use and its distribution in the community than we know about many other drugs and medicinal compounds which we use. It has been extolled through the years as a plant having medicinal value and even religious and spiritual values. At various times it has been banned and praised by various societies, and this has also complicated our approach to it. In some societies such as Jamaica, as honourable senators know, it is a very commonly used recreational drug and is accepted throughout the community. 
There is no agreement, of course, on the extent of cannabis use in Australia. We have some figures, we are getting more and we hope that they are more detailed in future than they were when this Committee investigated the problem. I can remember evidence which was produced in the newspapers in this city that 90 per cent of high school students had used cannabis at some time or other. I can remember equally firm evidence from the welfare officers in this city that this claim was nonsense and that it was not used to anywhere near that extent. We had surveys in the community made by people from universities in Sydney, New South Wales and Melbourne and we had surveys done in schools in Queensland, but we still could not be sure of the accuracy of those surveys. One thing that came through all the time was that people generally accepted that the use of cannabis was increasing. This was reflected in our other means of knowing how much cannabis is used in the communitythe figures for people who are convicted of the illegal use of various cannabis substances. The conviction figures also cannot be considered to be extremely accurate. There is a great bias in those figures towards the young and away from the so-called middle class and the upper middle income groups. A lawyer who works in the field commented in the  Age  newspaper on 10 April 1976 as follows: 
It's the born losers, the kids in jeans in the street who get busted. Police rarely stop and search the Mercedes or the Volvos. But their drivers are trying it too. 
The 'it' being pot, marihuana or cannabis. I think that this is accepted as a factual sort of a statement by all thinking people who realise what is going on in the community. I am not particularly saying that it is only in drug abuse that there is this bias, this skew in the statistics towards those in the lower income bracket, those who are unemployed, the students, those who have long hair or those who wear jeans and away from those who are more conventionally respectable and more wealthy. There is a problem in determining the statistical basis of what we are arguing about. There is difficulty in determining the exact nature of the problem we are facing because unskilled workers and others are consistently over-represented in drug conviction surveys in this country. It is a factor that we must always remember. So we have a real difficulty immediately in that we do not know the extent of the problem although it is generally accepted that the problem is increasing. 
The second task that we as parliamentarians have in taking legislative action concerning the abuse of a substance like cannabis is to determine what we should do in the face of very firm community attitudes. As I have said, the community is polarised over the use of cannabis. Its use is controversial. The penalties imposed and the methods used in the past to approach the problem are themselves controversial. It is a political issue as much as anything else, as is mentioned in the Committee's report at page 140. The report reads: 
Some people 's beliefs as to the propriety of use or non-use depend on factors which have little to do with the nature and effects of the use of the drug. 
All the surveys, such as the one carried out by the ANOP Market Research Pty Ltd in April and May 1973, show that it is a political issue, in that attitudes towards the use of this substance, that is, marihuana, are a function of age, education, urban residence, church attendance and voting intention. The attitudes are not based on any knowledge- where that exists- of the effects of the drug, good or bad. Usually they are not based on any personal knowledge or personal experience of the use of the drug. They are based on pre-conceived ideas on all sorts of issues. The attitude to marihuana, as to other drugs, fits into a pattern of belief common enough in all sorts of beliefs, but it is important that we as members of parliament recognise this when we are deciding what to do. This leads to the extraordinary situation which was referred to in the Committee 's report. Evidence was received that in families where alcohol was an accepted substance and marihuana was a taboo substance there was an extraordinary attitude to the actions of children. One social worker cited an experience as follows: 
At one home, parents experienced such anguish as a result of their 19-year-old daughter's use of 'pot' that when the younger daughter started drinking heavily they were deeply relieved! 'She'd get so drunk', a social worker explained, she would be throwing up in the morning. Yet her parents were happy'. 
They were happy because she was not smoking pot. This is the sort of difficulty that we as legislators will always face in drawing up legislation. We must recognise the very real prejudices which exist in the community. As the Committee reported, there is in our own community an increasing knowledge of cannabis; there is an increasing availability of information about cannabis; and there is also an increasing availability of misinformation about cannabis, from both sides of the argument. Those who propose the complete legalisation and liberalisation of the use of cannabis, and frequently other drugs, ignore any possibility of harmful effects. They ignore any possibility at all that the drug can be harmful. Those who are very much prohibitionists will not accept that any recreational drug can be of any use or that there can be any excuse for people to use it. This bedevils the debate on cannabis at all times. One frequently hears cited examples such as literature from the United Kingdom. It was alleged in one article in the  Lancet  that cerebral atrophy resulted from smoking cannabis. It causes atrophy of the brain cells, so that the brain shrinks. This article was published many years ago. It has been repeatedly discredited by all sorts of authorities. It has been discredited because the people used in the investigation were in fact users of multiple drugs and were sufferers from mental illness. The experiment was not controlled. Yet this discredited example is repeatedly thrown up as a reason for banning the use of cannabis of any form in the community. On page 142 of the report the Committee pointed out that it was concerned because it appeared that a person seeking information was more likely to encounter unbalanced misinformation than relevant knowledge conducive to responsible personal decision-making. This of course does not occur only in the case of marihuana or cannabis; it occurs in all sorts of drug abuse. 
One only has to consider the myths in this country about the merits or demerits of alcohol to realise how much misinformation on this sort of subject is fed into the community. But the Committee recognised- all of us must recognise- that in fact the active part of cannabis, tetrahydrocannabinol, THC, has a pathological effect on human organisms and human cells. Not to recognise this is to ignore the obvious. There of course is such a thing. There is a reality, as the Committee described it of acute intoxication which results in reduced work performance and psychomotor impairment. Quite apart from the obvious relationship to drivingtrie difficulty with driving that cannabis createscannabis represents and will obviously represent a significant hazard in certain industrial situations, as do alcohol and most other drugs of abuse. But we must recognise that this occurs and we must recognise that the claims that cannabis is harmless and has no effect on human organisms are nonsense. We must recognise such claims as the nonsense they are. 
We also must recognise that more frequently tolerance to the drug is being reported from reputable clinical and biochemical studies. But we must above all recognise that, as I said before, cannabis has an adverse effect on drug skills and, combined with alcohol, has a very serious adverse effect on drivers' skills. This is becoming even more important. In this country, at least in the 1960s, I believe it was recognised that cannabis was the drug of protest, that cannabis was the drug of those who were not happy with the establishment, that cannabis was usually used, in circumstances away from alcohol, by those who did not drink whereas in more recent years surveys and common observation are suggesting that the pattern is changing- that people more and more are combining the use of cannabis and alcohol. It is a dangerous combination, a very difficult combination for those who are driving on our roads. It is important therefore that we get information to those people who use cannabis and those potential users of cannabis about the very real and proven effects that it can have. It is important that we get away from the nonsense of the past about cannabis being a drug of addiction, about it causing people to stare at the sun and go blind, about it causing people to walk off the tops of buildings, and about other anecdotal unproven- in fact disproven- stories which - 
Including brain atrophy, as I mentioned before. When these stories are demonstrated to be false to those people who use the drug, they have a very bad effect. Those people who have had it demonstrated to them that the previous truths about a substance are in fact false will not believe any of the real difficulties which arise. So we have to get the debate down to a proper level and we have to look at the problem at a proper level before we can make a proper decision. Despite the fact that I said that we still have a fair bit to learn about the effects of cannabis, in fact it has been the subject of human studies for a long time. The Committee looked at some of the studies that were made. It looked at reports such as the Commission into Indian Hemp Drugs which was conducted in 1894 and which has been described as a complete and systematic study of marihuana. In 1894 this Commission concluded in regard to the physical effects that the moderate use of hemp drugs is attended by practically no evil results at all. With respect to the alleged mental effects of the drugs, the Commission concluded that moderate use produces no injurous effects on the mind. Whether or not it is correct, people were saying that in 1894. 
In 1944 the report of the first of the very big studies, made by the Mayor of New York's committee, the La Guardia Committee, was published. This was a time of great hysteria about the use of drugs in the community and when talk of marihuana being a drug of addiction, the source of all crime, and that it affected people's sexual behaviour was common. The La Guardia report, the report of the New York Academy of Medicine which Mayor La Guardia requested to study the problem, presented the following findings: That the practice of smoking marihuana does not lead to addiction in the medical sense of the word; that the use of marihuana does not lead to morphine or heroin or cocaine addiction; that marihuana is not the determining factor in the commission of major crimes; and that the publicity concerning the catastrophic effects of marihuana in New York City was unfounded. That report was published in 1944. 
The Wootten report which came out in 1 968 in Britain contained similar findings. It found that it is the personality of the user rather than the properties of the drug that is likely to cause progression to other drugs and that the evidence of a link with violent crime is far stronger in the case of alcohol than in the case of smoking cannabis. The Le Dain report in Canada, which was published in 1972, also destroyed many of the popular myths when it stated that it appears that the heavy use of sedatives, alcohol and barbiturates rather than cannabis has more frequently preceded heroin use. Similar findings were contained in the Shafer report published in the United States in 1972. The Jamaican study of the use of ganja in Jamaica, where cannabis derivatives are used very commonly in all sorts of shapes and forms and where 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the lower section of the rural population are regular users of the substance, was published in 1975. It concluded that there was no evidence to confirm any of the allegations about the deleterious effects of the drugs. It indicated that ganja was often used in place of alcohol, being regarded as a more sociable and peaceful drug, and that it reduced the alcohol problem in Jamaica by comparison with other West Indian nations. 
Other studies, such as the Greek study which was conducted by the United States and the Costa Rican study, did a lot to destroy the myths surrounding the use of cannabis. Yet those myths are repeated in our society. They are repeated in documents which are produced by organisations that wish to be taken seriously. They are repeated in sometimes rather lurid and hysterical productions aimed at decreasing the use of the drug. Such productions have not resulted in a decrease in its use, nor have the penalties that we have introduced in our community; nor have the education methods that we have attempted to use. Therefore I believe the Committee members, I believe unanimously in this case, said that we must look seriously at the future and how we will handle this problem, if we consider it a problem at all. 
Members of the Committee differed on the methods which should be used. One section of the Committee took a fairly conservative approach- to retain the present system of penalties but to increase the penalties for trafficking in the drug. The other section of the Committee, the majority, took the attitude that there should be a so-called 'decriminalisation' approach; that although we wanted to discourage the use of this and other drugs in the community - 
Equally divided. But it was the majority report. Let us not quibble about semantics; they are irrelevant. That section of the Committee took the view that in fact we should take a decriminalisation approach; that the previous approach of making the use of the drug a criminal offence in fact had as bad an effect as the drug itself, that it was not succeeding in its aim and that it was having unfortunate social effects. We came to the different conclusions without too much enmity or too much bitterness and I think both sections of the Committee respect each other's views. 
When the report was seriously written and published- it was backed up by evidence, backed up by a concern on the part of all members of the Committee to improve the situation in this community, and to make it a less intoxicated society and to decrease the use of drugs in the community, licit and illicit - unfortunately the people who backed the majority report on marihuana were subject to the sort of abuse which came from people such as the Premier of Queensland and others. On the afternoon on which the report was released this sort of nonsense and argument appeared, this personal abuse. It is a great pity. 
The situation has improved somewhat since then- I believe that has happened as a result of this report, the recommendations of which were considered fairly controversial at the time. However, as the  Chairman  said the other night, they would now be considered fairly conservative in view of the findings of other reports that have been published overseas and preliminary reports of committees in this country. I believe that as a result of this report and more sensible debate we can all look seriously at the problem and consider the approach we will adopt in the community. If we adopt the attitude of many people in the community- adults and legislators- and merely abuse those people who are doing things differently from the way in which we would like them to be done, we will have very real double standards. This is described in the annual report of the Commonwealth Director-General of Health where he stated: 
It is seen in the attitude of many adult moralists who castigate young people for their attitudes to drugs while at the same time declining to moderate their personal over: indulgence in alcohol- a double standard which is indefensible in the eyes of the young. 
If we continue this attitude in the community we will maintain this very real division which exists between the older and the younger generations, between conservatives and progressives, radicals or whatever they may be called, between those who live in one suburb and those who live in another. We will continue to shout at each other instead of indulging in rational discussions about the very real problems. We will come to no solutions. Education on drugs will consist of a competition between the two extremes instead of an examination of the facts and effects and an evaluation of programs to do something about this problem. 
Those who claim that this society is being damaged by the abuse of drugs of all types will be laughed at by those who are abusing the drugs if they do not produce rational argument, if they produce emotional argument of the type we have heard over the years about marihuana, and if they produce deliberate lies in order to bolster up their own stance, which is frequently based on a moral, philosophical or even political viewpoint. That is why this Committee unanimously sought a national strategy in the approach to drug abuse. That is why it sought a careful examination of the methods that we have used in the past, particularly the methods of education we have used to cope with drug abuse in this country. That is why it has sought a careful evaluation of any programs which are introduced with public funds or otherwise to cope with this problem. That is why the Committee unanimously asked for rational debate and for a rational look to be taken at the situation so that we can get to the right questions and therefore hopefully get the right answers. I hope that this report and the result of any debate in this chamber will result in a wider, more sensible and less emotional community approach to the problem so that we will not forever remain an intoxicated society- probably the greatest pillpopping society of the world, the greatest abusers of licit drugs and among the greatest abusers of illicit drugs on this planet. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate. I rise briefly because of some words used by  Senator Harradine  in an interjection and because of some words used by  Senator Walters  earlier this evening.  Senator Harradine  remarked on the absence of  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Walters  remarked, in a derogatory way, on the fact that  Senator Ryan  was not present. I inform the Senate that  Senator Ryan  is not present for a good and proper reason. I would stack  Senator Ryan's  record of attendance in this place against  Senator Harradine  's at any time. She was unable to be here this evening. 
We have seen tonight from  Senator Harradine  a very good example of a tactic which he uses quite frequently. Last evening in this place a mild exchange took place between  Senator Harradine, Senator Wriedt  and myself about an issue relating to family allowances. Later on there was a more vigorous exchange between  Senator Harradine  and  Senator McLaren  on the subject of  Senator Ryan's  previous views.  Senator Harradine  brought forward as evidence for his views a letter from the Women's Action Alliance. According to him there was later an altercation in the corridors of this place, something which I suggest is not unusual. It happens quite frequently. Of course  Senator Harradine  in typical manner blows this up into an enormous incident. He stormed in here tonight and gave us a burst on  Senator Ryan's  alleged views and included, for good measure, the fact that  Senator Ryan  was asked and agreed to open a conference of homosexuals in this country. Apparently this is a crime in  Senator Harradine  's view. Although homosexuals are a minority in the country they have every right to hold a conference. I believe that if someone is asked to address such a conference they should be happy enough to do so. Such a person should not be condemned in this place for doing such a thing. 
We then got a burst on the giant conspiracy theory which involves the radical feminists of the Women's Electoral Lobby taking over the Government in this country. It seems that anyone who disagrees with  Senator Harradine  's views is a communist, a Left Liberal- I think that is the term correctly used in  Newsweek-  a trendy or a radical feminist. This includes the Liberal Party members as well. There is a blanket condemnation of anyone involved, including  Mr Macphee  who can well defend himself. If he cannot there are others on the other side of the chamber who can. 
As  Senator Missen  says, he is a trendy feminist. We got a tremendous burst on all these people tonight. Then we got another example of  Senator Harradine  's tactics when  Senator Puplick  had the temerity to express his views in this place tonight and quoted John Stuart Mill, hardly the most radical man ever on this earth.  Senator Harradine  's interjection to  Senator Puplick  's quotation of John Stuart Mill was: 'You must be joking'. I warn  Senator Puplick,  not that it will worry him at all, and  Senator Tate  that anyone who rises in this place and gives a view which slightly deviates from the rather rigid views that  Senator Harradine  has of the world will be abused in the manner that  Senator Puplick  was abused by way of interjection. He or she will be condemned, right, left and centre for holding those 'deviate' views and will get no tolerance from  Senator Harradine. 
As I said,  Senator Ryan  is not in this chamber, for good reason. I will leave it to my colleague to defend herself. I merely wished to rise to express my disapproval of the sort of tactic which has been used by  Senator Harradine,  although I have seen him use it many times. I will leave it to my colleague to reply to the specific allegations when she returns on the next sitting day. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it a fact that last Tuesday, 3 October, a meeting was held in Sydney between officers of her Department and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and representatives of Greek welfare organisations who are looking after the interests of the 175 people charged in the recent conspiracy case? Who called the meeting? By what criteria were people invited and by what criteria were people excluded? What was the purpose of the meeting? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 September, 1 978: 
What was the total amount approved under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974 for the Triennium 1976-79. 
What amount was approved for expenditure by: (a) geriatric organisations; (b) disabled adults' organisations, and (c) disabled children's organisations, in each State. 
What was the total amount expended during the first two years of the Triennium. 
What amounts were expended during this period by: (a) geriatric organisations; (b) disabled adults' organisations; and (c) disabled children's organisations, in each State on: (i) grants in respect of approved projects; (ii) grants in respect of rents of approved projects; ( iti) grants in respect of approved equipment; and (iv) grants in respect of approved officers, in each State. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, seeks information which will assist senators in the debate which will take place shortly on the Social Services Amendment Bill. Can the Minister tell the Senate what is the saving to the Government in a full year of indexing pensions only once a year instead of twice a year? What is *he saving to the Government in a full year of income testing pension increases to the over- 70s? If she does not have these figures could she let senators have them before we debate the legislation shortly? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
I claim to have been misrepresented in an article in today's edition of the Hobart  Mercury.  In an article on page 3 under the headline 'Hodgman Abortion Challenge', the newspaper claims that I am in favour of the establishment of private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory and  Mr Hodgman  is alleged to have claimed that I and other Australian Labor Party members were openly promoting the establishment of private abortion clinics. The article refers to a motion by  Senator Ryan  to disallow the Australian Capital Territory Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance and implies that the aim of this disallowance is to establish private abortion clinics. Quite apart from the fact that  Senator Ryan's  motion does not do that and is not intended to allow the establishment of such clinics, I have not expressed my views publicly or privately on this issue anywhere. Therefore,  Mr Hodgman  's statement is not based on anything he has heard or read. In fact, I am very much opposed to the establishment of such clinics in the Australian Capital Territory or anywhere else. That  Mr Hodgman  makes such claims without evidence is, I believe, understandable and occurs only too often, but that a newspaper claiming to be responsible should make such statements without checking with me or on the authenticity of the statements is unfortunate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has her attention been drawn to correspondence in the Italian newspaper  La Fiamma  recently, urging the Italian Government not to agree to a request by the Australian Government for a list of names of Italians receiving Italian pensions in Australia so that the Australian Government will not be able to reduce Australian pensions by that amount and suggesting that Australian pensions are meagre and cause empty stomachs compared with Italian pensions? Has the Australian Government made such a request? What reply has it received from the Italian Government? Could the Minister give the Senate a comparison of pension rates in Australia and Italy? 
-The Social Services Amendment Bill 1 978 is an omnibus Bill, as social service amendment Bills frequently are, amending many sections of the Social Services Act to provide for the Government's Budget policy. We of the Opposition oppose this legislation. We oppose it because of the injustices which will result from the implementation of its provisions. We oppose it because of the broken promises contained in itpromises made during election campaigns in 1975 and 1977. We oppose it because of its discriminatory nature. It discriminates against welfare recipients in general but, more particularly, it discriminates against the single unemployed. It is mean legislation, making pensioners and other beneficiaries bear an excessive share of the Government's economic measures at little gain to the public purse. 
Sections of the legislation have been condemned by supporters of the Government, by almost every welfare organisation in this country and by the editorials of some of the most conservative journals in this country. We believe that we are in good company in our opposition. Originally, of course, the Government had other intentions. It intended to tax the blind and the handicapped. Proposals in that respect have been withdrawn. They have been withdrawn as a result of protest- protest by members of the Government, protest by members of the Opposition and protest by members of the public. It was intended to introduce an administratively difficult and unjust means test on family allowances which would partly have the effect of penalising poor families whose children helped out by earning small amounts. These proposals were also discarded as a result of public outcry. 
We believe that the Government would do well to look again at the injustices which remain in this legislation. 
In the debate in the House of Representatives on this measure we had the quite extraordinary situation of only the Minister handling the Bill making any real attempt to defend it.  Speaker  after  speaker  on the Government side of the chamber attacked various provisions of the Bill and some abstained from voting. Government back bench members were plainly embarrassed, and they have much to be embarrassed about. The Bill runs contrary to promises made in two previous election campaigns when the Government went to great pains to reassure pensioners that they would not be disadvantaged by Government measures. This Bill is merely the latest in a long series of actions by this Government in the last three years or so against the underprivileged in this country. These actions started with the first legislative act of the Government in 1976 of abolishing the subsidised health and pharmaceutical benefits scheme and continued with a long campaign conducted by Government members against the unemployed and with the failure to increase benefits to pensioners and children as well as supplementary benefits in the time the Government has been in power and they culminate in this legislation. I daresay that it will not stop here. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was very keen in 1975 and 1977 on making promises to the aged and disadvantaged. He went on at length about his concern for those who needed help. Back bench members and new candidates, taking their cue from their leader, promised to look after their aged constituents. I can well remember stating last November that if the Government pursued its policy of unreasonable contraction of the economy and blind faith in the reduction of the deficit pensions would inevitably suffer and the indexation of pensions twice yearly would go. The Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  alleged that I was being unfair and trying to frighten the pensioners. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who is ever delicate in his approach, called me bluntly a liar. I ask the constituents: Who was misleading the pensioners? Who was a liar? I leave it to the pensioners to judge that, as did the electors of New South Wales a little more than a week ago. 
This Bill abolishes the twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits and replaces that indexation with annual increases. This change has dismayed pensioners across the country- we have all heard from pensioner organisationsand disturbed some Government members, as well it might. The promise to index pensions twice yearly was made in 1975 by the then shadow Minister for Social Security,  Mr Chipp. His  chief cry- a cry that has been taken up by the Government many times since- was that the Liberal Party would take politics out of pension increases by indexing them. When, after considerable prompting by the Opposition and  Mr Chipp,  who was then a back bench member of the Government, the Fraser Government introduced indexation there were loud cries of self-praise and many quotes about fulfilling promises. The indexation in fact was not what was promised but it was indexation of a sort. The promise was for automatic and immediate indexation. There was a delay of four months in allowing the pensioners to catch up with price increases, but it was a regular increase and it was an expected increase and the Government felt that it had fulfilled it promise. Now, to save the expenditure of $27m this year and $60m in a full year, the Government has abolished the twice yearly pension increases. 
Despite all the promises of  Mr Fraser  and his colleagues, this method of indexation has been abandoned. The only reason given for that, the only excuse given for that, is that the rate of inflation has been reduced somewhat and that a twice-yearly change is not necessary. That was not the view of the McMahon Government. In 1971 the rate of inflation was 5.2 per cent and in 1972 it was 7.8 per cent but the McMahon Government increased pensions twice yearly. A search of the promises made by  Mr Fraser, Mr Chipp, Senator Guilfoyle  and  Mr Snedden  reveal that no-one at any time qualified the promise to increase pensions twice yearly with the qualification that if the rate of inflation dropped the increases would cease. The simple fact is that pensions were assured that they would receive the increases twice yearly. They were assured regularly. They were assured at the last two elections but the promise has been broken at the first available opportunity. As a result of this legislation the unemployed who do not have dependants will not receive indexation at all but will await each year the whim of the Government. The unemployed with dependants will, of course, receive the same treatment as other pensioners and beneficiaries and will receive their indexation yearly instead of twice-yearly. This failure to index unemployment benefits paid to those without dependants will not apply to sickness beneficiaries or anyone else. 
Is the implication of this action that the unemployed people without dependants are out of work because they do not wish to work? Is the Government saying to the thousands of young people seeking work that they are second class citizens? Is the Government saying to the middle-aged bachelors or spinsters or widows or widowers in this country who have no dependants, who have lost their jobs through technological change or structural change and who cannot get jobs because of their age that they are less worthy than others in the community? The Government recognises the fact that it costs more to live singly than in pairs when it pays pensions. Why has it reversed this situation in the case of the single unemployed person? Is it another example of the long-standing campaign conducted by this Government against the unemployed, the campaign against the so-called 'dole bludger'. 
I remind the Government that unemployment in this country is at a record level and that on a seasonal basis it is increasing. On the admission of the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in this Budget, unemployment will increase even more. The end is not in sight. If one looks at the unemployment statistics, amongst the biggest areas of increase are the young, who cannot get jobs at all, and the middle-aged who are being displaced by technology and by automation because their skills are no longer needed and who cannot find replacement jobs. We all have endless queries from people in this age group who seek work but cannot get it and who are told that they are too old, that there are no retraining schemes available for them to retrain and that there are no jobs for them to be retrained for. These people are out of work through no fault of their own. The Government is saying to them that they are overpaid and that this affluent country cannot afford to assist them. 
Not only is unemployment at a record level; the duration individuals are receiving unemployment benefit is also at an all-time high. The average duration people are receiving unemployment benefit is now 26.2 weeks, that is, 6 months plus a bit, which is double the time it was when this Government took office. Also the ratio of unemployed to job vacancies is very high. It is 18 to one and quite recently it was 20 to one. In the case of the young it is very much higher than that and in some regions, such as the area around Newcastle where for juniors the ratio of unemployed to job vacancies is in excess of 100 to one, it is extremely high. 
Last week figures were produced by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which tell us that 98.6 per cent of unemployment beneficiaries without dependants in this country have a continuing income of less than $3 a week. That means that there are some 200,000 single unemployed beneficiaries with no children who are totally or almost totally dependent on unemployment benefit cheques. They represent 75.6 per cent of all unemployment benefit recipients. Yet in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  we are given no explanation for this harsh measure and no costing. We are just told that it is to be done, that it is a Budget decision. This is from a government led by a man who in 1974, as Shadow Minister for Labour, said that unemployment benefit payments should be increased as unemployment rises, who said that unemployment benefit payments should be increased to the level of the minimum wage as unemployment increases and who then showed an apparent concern for the unemployed. 
-That was well after the election in 1974. This comes also from a government whose Minister for Social Security says repeatedly, as she did last Thursday, that there is no evidence that the unemployed are abusing the system any more than any other beneficiary; yet we hear frequently from Government members- we have heard it in another placethat this is the reason for this sort of discriminatory measure. Why has this harsh discriminatory policy been introduced against the unemployed? In the absence of an explanation one can only assume that it is to feed the conservative discrimination of members and supporters of the Government. But there are other reasons to oppose this legislation. A further reason can be seen from the manner in which this legislation and the manner in which this Government, since it has been in power, have failed to recognise- it has frequently taken steps to disadvantage them- families with children, particularly families of those in receipt of various social security benefits. When the family allowance system was introduced it was pointed out from this side of the House that unless the payments were indexed for inflation their value would drop. The people who were so reliant on them and the people who were initially advantaged by the introduction of the family allowance scheme, the low income earners, would suffer unless there was a regular upgrading of these payments. Many people have introduced into this House and had incorporated in  Hansard  tables demonstrating that this in fact has happened. There is no need to do it again. 
Allowances for pensioners' children and beneficiaries' children have not been increased at all by this Government, not in this Budget or in any previous Budget. They have remained at their present level since 1975, an effective annual cut in assistance to these people. Supplementary assistance to pensioners and beneficiaries for rent has not been increased by this Government. These people are the poorest of the poor in the community. They are on the pension. They have next to no extra income and they are in rented accommodation. They have not had an increase in their supplementary assistance. In this legislation the children of pensioners or beneficiaries who manage to get one or other of the tertiary scholarships available in this country will not have family allowances paid on their behalf. We will have the situation, once this legislation comes into being, where the children of those who are well off, who have no scholarship, will attract the family allowance while the children of the poor, those in the lower and middle income groups, who have a scholarship, will attract no allowance. One must remember that tertiary education allowance scholarships are in fact heavily means tested. 
These people will not in fact receive a family allowance.  Senator Walters  makes one of her brilliant interjections. She points out that the tertiary education allowance has been increased by $3 odd and that this in fact makes up for this means test. It does not make up for it and it does not get away from the argument,  Senator, that  your children and my children- separate children- who may not have scholarships will attract family allowances whereas the children of the poor - 
I have made that distinction very clearly. Those children will not have a benefit paid at all. This is a ludicrous and unjust situation and demonstrates, as I believe this legislation and other measures have demonstrated, that the Government again has not thought things through. Added to these thingsthat the family allowance is eroded in value, that the allowances for pensioners' children and the allowance for rental assistance have been eroded because they have not been increased, and that children who get a tertiary allowance of some kind will not have the family allowance paid in respect of them- other things have been done without warning, such as the maternity benefit being abolished. I accept that this benefit was not much. It had not been increased for something like 35 years. But it had become part of our social security system. People were expecting it. The only people, I will admit, who benefited from it were the low income earners. 
-' Why shouldn't they?', as  Senator Tate  says. If we want to stop people who do not need it getting it, then we should introduce a means test, not abolish it like this. I put it to the Government that a pensioner or beneficiary who has three or four children will lose about $30 in the first year because of the changeover to the new system of child endowment. We will produce the figures to show that quite clearly in the Committee stage. Their family allowances, supplementary benefits and rent allowances have been eroded in the last three years. In future they will wait 16 months for increases in their benefits instead of the four months that they wait at the moment. If they should have a child they will lose their maternity allowance. All these are small changes, but when added together they can mean a large sum relative to the total income of these people. When added to the general increases in costs, they mean that these citizens are falling behind the general population. 
As  Senator Baume  knows, I will accept a means test; I will accept an efficient means of distribution; I will accept an abolition of a maternity benefit and the introduction of proper family support paymentsanything he likes. But, if one is going to reform, one introduces changes and gets rid of the old. One does not just blindly come in and scrap whatever exists. 
Leaving the family, a further reason for our opposition to this Bill is the Government's complete about-face on pensions for people over 70 years of age. Very recently pensioners were given a firm assurance by the Government that these pensions would not be affected. It is my understanding that the Liberal Party platform still says that the means test will be abolished. 
No. I accept that. I was one of those who were responsible for having it removed. Cheap political tricks like that will not help the Government in this situation. This will save the Government some $ 14m in this financial year. It will save the Government some $45 m in a full financial year. When the Government came to power in 1975 the firm policy was that it would abolish the means test. In 1 977,  Mr Fraser  was asked what his attitude was and what his Government's attitude was to the means test free pension for people over 70.  Mr Fraser  assured the pensioners that they could be quite happy and secure that they would not have a means test introduced to qualify for their pensions. He said that he did not think we could really get back to the situation where the pension would be means tested for people over 70. This was a firm electoral promise. No one- no pensioner organisation- expected that the Government would go back on it. Yet the Government, at the first available opportunity, has introduced an income test. It would seem that in the field of social security the best way to predict what will happen when the present Government is in is to take the Prime Minister's assurances in the past and assume that he Will go back on all of them. He seems to have a pathological desire to kick the less fortunate in the community in the teeth, and his colleagues go along with it. I know he believes that life was not meant to be easy. I have said in this chamber before that that does not necessarily mean that life has to be difficult for those who are in an unfortunate situation. 
There are other aspects of the Bill which cause disquiet and which we will seek to clarify in the Committee stage. The second reading speech does very little to clarify some of the decisions. In fact there are not explanatory notes and there is no explanation of many of the changes. The migrant community, rightly or wrongly, is deeply suspicious of the restrictions introduced on the payment of family allowances and other benefits overseas. In view of recent events in Sydney, I suppose they can rightly have some degree of suspicion of the Department and of the Government. We need a greater explanation of the reasons for these changes and we need an explanation of the effects of the changes, the effects on some of the migrant communities, the migrant families, and the effects on the Government purse, before we will agree willingly to what may or may not be reasonable changes. The migrant communities deserve reassurance and they deserve an explanation. Similarly, the change to the definition of a child to an upper limit of 25 years seems quite reasonable on the surface, but what will be its effects? How much money will be saved? Are there not some handicapped persons perhaps- I have no means of knowing- who, because of their disability, need more years to develop their skills and to develop self-reliance in the community and who are still getting this benefit or who may qualify for this benefit in the future? Will those families be disadvantaged by this measure, and to what extent? 
The reason given by the Minister for the changes, that is, that there should be uniformity in the legislation, is just not good enough if people are going to suffer in these circumstances. We need much greater explanation. We will seek much greater explanation. For instance, I know that the change in clause 16 of the Bill seems, to my untutored mind, to make no difference to the legislation. I have asked my legal colleagues, and I even went to the extent of asking a lawyer who is not on my side of the House, just what it means. None of them seemed to know. I am hoping that my legal friend,  Senator Cavanagh,  will be able to explain it to us in the Committee stage. Certainly we will be seeking an explanation of this in the Committee stage. 
I hope that it is a liberalisation. The Minister may be sure of that. Her Director-General who has the discretion may be sure of that. But I am afraid the lawyers whom one consults 'around the place are not sure just what it means. Briefly, we oppose this legislation in general and we will oppose the motion for the second reading. In Committee we will oppose those clauses which we find offensive. We oppose it because it is mean legislation and because it breaks almost every promise made in the field of social security by the Prime Minister and his colleagues in the last two years. We oppose it because the decisions in it are frequently unjust. We believe that the Government has not thought through the consequences of all those decisions. 
It is not often that someone on this side can quote from an editorial in a newspaper like the  West Australian,  but in fact the  West Australian  is opposed to certain aspects of this legislation. The  West Australian  of Saturday, 14 October, points out in its editorial, in talking about the decision to change from twice yearly to once a year indexation of pensions- it had previously talked about the changes to the family allowances scheme from which the Government withdrew: 
Now the focus shifts to an even more niggardly and less justifiable proposition- a switch from twice-yearly to onceayear indexation of pensions. This renunciation of yet another election pledge (plus the erosion of a commitment to ease the means test on pensions) has brought a heartening back-lash from the Government backbench - 
Then there is a bit of parochial stuff:   . . and it is good to see the MHR for Perth,  Mr Ross  McLean, in the forefront of the critics. The Government's attempt to justify the change took up only one sentence in the Treasurer's Budget speech: 'This decision has been taken in the light of the significant reduction in inflation which this Government has achieved since its return to office '. The argument could be applied with equal force in reverse: Reduced inflation should make it easier for the Government to preserve the spending power of pensioners. 
That sums up very well the situation with regard to that matter. But the Government's arguments for that change and, I submit, for other changes are completely unconvincing. Where there are arguments at all, the Government has failed to produce figures on the effects of this legislation on the deficit and on Government spending. The only way that we have been able to receive such information is by asking questions at Question Time and we hope that the information that we further seek will become available at the Committee stages. So the Government has failed to argue for the changes. It has failed to give us detail of the effects of the changes on the Treasurer's Budget. It has also failed completely in many cases to give us any details of the effects on the families who will be so badly affected. For this reason we oppose the legislation. 
Sitting suspended from  5.56  to  8  p.m. 
-I seek some clarification from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  Clause 3 amends section 1 8A of the principal Act to put an upper limit of 25 years of age on student children for whom a handicapped child's allowance can be paid under this section of the legislation to age and invalid pensioners. It seems to me that the only reason given for this is to make uniform the provisions in the Act regarding children. I do not have any particular objection to a 25 years of age upper limit being placed on a definition of a child. But we should ensure that the Government and the Department of Social Security have made sure that, in fact, some people will not be considerably disadvantaged. I believe that the Minister misunderstood my remarks at the second reading stage. One can imagine the handicapped child of a pensioner, because of his or her difficulties, needing to be considered as a student child until after the age of 25 years. Has some investigation been undertaken to find out how many people over the age of 25 years in this situation are considered to be children and receiving benefits so that we can get some idea of how many people are affected by this clause and similar clauses throughout the legislation? 
-I accept what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said. But one wonders why the change is necessary if, as she said, it is to remove a difficulty which may exist if the change is not made. I find it hard to find what difficulty exists now. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) How much money was spent on executive suites for the Department of Social Security on the 3rd floor of Australia House, Sydney. 
How many staff will occupy these offices. 
How does the staff/space ratio compare with other floors occupied by the Department of Social Security. 
-The provisions contained in clause 4 are also repeated throughout the Bill. The clause prevents the payment of an additional pension for children who are living 'permanently abroad and separated from the parent'. Superficially, one finds no violent objection to this. I can understand the Australian electorate objecting to the use of taxpayers' money to pay benefits to children under such circumstances. But the provision has caused some disquiet in the migrant community, probably because of the lack of clarification by the Government. Although the clause is superficially innocuous, it should make us think a little. Australia, unlike some Western European countries, does not have a large guest worker population. Those countries have the benefit of guest workers. Perhaps they are paid social security benefits while they are working there. But once they are not needed they are sent back to their own countries. This has occurred a great deal in Europe. 
Australia has an active immigration program which has encouraged people to come here. This applies particularly to members of the Turkish community who have been actively and vigorously encouraged to come and work in this country for the benefit of this country. It is quite wrong for us to take the attitude, as some Australians do, that we are doing these people a favour. We encourage these people to come to Australia to work. But members of the Turkish community and other ethnic communities find that when they come here, in order to acquire reasonable accommodation and a reasonable standard of living, both parents need to work. So that they can establish themselves, the parents then send their children home for several years to their grandparents because family ties are very close. I am concerned that these people may be in some difficulty. Both parents may be tax payers and contributing to the welfare of this country. 
Whether we agree with it or not, the parents feel that their children are better off back in their own countries with their grandparents. Yet, in the case of age and invalid pensions- I admit it is not likely that many cases will come under these circumstances- we deprive the pensioners of these benefits. However later in the Bill in the case of other benefits and family allowances, people are deprived of those benefits. I wonder why the Government felt it necessary to introduce this restriction. What amount of money will be saved? How many people and what groups in the community will be affected? When changes like this are made which disturb and create suspicion among members of our ethnic community the Government should give its reasons. It should give the numbers involved. 
If the Government believes that people are abusing the system, it should say how many people are doing so. I do not believe that the explanation in the second reading speech is sufficient to satisfy the Opposition of the necessity for this change. 
I accept the Government's philosophical objections and I am sorry if I sounded too aggressive and provoked an aggressive response from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
My understanding is that this provision does not refer only to family allowances; it refers also to allowances for children of pensioners. Such payments come out of what is normally described as family allowances in this scheme. For example a migrant couple from country Z- it does not matter what country it is- comes to Australia, having been attracted here, as families were until recently, by our immigration policies. After they arrive here they find it necessary, as do so many Australians- about 43 per cent of Australians- to work to maintain their standard of living. Then something happens. One becomes an invalid pensioner and the other needs support. They have a child whom they send home to country Z because they feel it is the best place for that child. What sort of criteria is the Director-General of Social Services going to use when under these circumstances he stops the payment for the child of a pensioner? All we really need is some guarantee of compassionate treatment in such a case. I have some philosophical difficulties about a country such as Australia that actively encourages migrants, has them working and paying taxes and then, because one of their children happens to be living out of the country, deprives them of benefits. I accept that my view might not be shared by all my colleagues. I seek that reassurance from the Minister. 
-Clause 5 of this Social Services Amendment Bill seeks to amend section 28 of the principal Act. The part in which we are interested and which makes us oppose this clause is where the clause seeks to amend sub-section (2aa) of section 28 of the principal Act and to remove people who are permanently blind and people who are aged 70 years or over from the provisions of that section. That will have the effect of imposing an income test on future increases to pensions of people aged 70 years or over. I am perfectly aware that the clause sets a minimum income at which such a pensioner would be entitled to receive a pension increase without being subjected to the income test. We find this proposal to reimpose any sort of income test sufficient reason to oppose this clause. We do this because the people concerned had a firm assurance from the Government, particularly from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in November 1977, that they could rest assured that no such test would be introduced. 
We believe that, although the Government might firmly believe that its economic policy is such that it must restrict public spending in the manner in which it is going about it, the burden of this action should not fall on people within that age group- people who previously were assured that they would not be interfered with. It is basically for this reason that we oppose this clause. If this clause were not agreed to it would have the effect of leaving section 28 (2AA) as it is and of leaving the blind and the pensioners of 70 years of age and over free of an income test. 
If only I were as successful at fishing for fish as I am at fishing for  Senator Walters!  When we were in government, I stated quite clearly in this placemany Government honourable senators will remember this-that I questioned the top priority given by both the coalition parties and the Australian Labor Party to the abolition of the means test on pensions. As I said yesterday, our party platform no longer contains as a top priority the abolition of the means test on pensions. Previously, our platform gave priority to the abolition of the means test on pensions paid to people aged 65 years and over within three years of a Labor government coming to office. I believe that our present approach is sensible and practical. I have never suggested that we should reintroduce a means test for pensions received by people aged 70 years and over. In fact, I think that we have a pretty reasonable system now whereby people have to be concerned about a means test on their pensions only between the ages of 65 and 70 years. I have never suggested, neither has any member of the Labor Party suggested, that we would reintroduce a means test on pensions received by people aged 70 years and over. 
The point is- we are talking about this Government's legislation, not my legislationthat in 1977  Senator Walters  and her colleagues and her Prime Minister promised those people aged 70 years and over that a means test or an income test on their pensions would not be introduced. When I suggested- honourable senators opposite will well remember this-that if the Government kept going the way it was going it would have to introduce a means test on pensions received by people aged 70 years and over and that the Government would have to cut out twice-yearly indexation of the pension,  Senator Walters'  colleagues called me a liar and one of her ministerial colleagues said that I was trying to frighten the pensioners. As I said during the second reading debate on this Bill: Who is frightening the pensioners and who is the liar? 
The matter at issue is not the Labor Party policy, although I am perfectly happy, as I always have been, to debate it. I believe that, in view of the economic circumstances, it would be wrong for the Government to give priority now to abolishing the means test on pensions received by people aged 65 years and over. I believed that in 1974 and 1975 when I sat on the Government side of this chamber. But I believe that it is wrong to reintroduce an income test of any kind on pensions received by people aged 70 years and over when a few months ago the Government promised that it would not do so and when the Leader of honourable senators opposite promised that such people could rest easy in their beds because such a measure would not be introduced. It is very easy in this chamber to turn the debate to discussing the policy of honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, but we are debating the Government's Bill and its promises, not mine. 
-The point I wish to raise is an extension of  Senator Townley  's question. I really think that the Minister for Social Security knew what our policy was. I do not think she really believed that our policy was just a means test free period for those between 65 and 70 years of age forever. One would hope that the introduction of some sort of national superannuation program in this country would eliminate the need for that. As  Senator Townley  has said, the Government is introducing a new means test on pension increases for those over 70 years of age. This will involve the filling in of forms by those people and an income testing of them. People are easily confused and sometimes intimidated by such filling in of forms. There has been experience in the past of considerable repayments being necessary by people who, through no fault of their own, have been overpaid. I will be more specific than  Senator Townley.  Can the Government tell us how much revenue is expected to be gained from this measure? What will be the administrative cost of gaining this increased revenue? Have the Government and the Department taken into account the considerable administrative difficulties which obviously will arise in dealing with people of this age group under these circumstances? 
-I repeat that the Labor Party has a couple of objections to this change. The main one, of course, is that in 1977 all members of the Government parties, in particular the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  told the people of this country over 70 years of age that they could rest easy in their beds; that they would not have an income test introduced on their pension. That may be relatively unimportant to  Senator Chipp,  but I have been a member of this Parliament long enough, though not as long as the honourable senator, to hear people from the other side of the chamber parroting about credibility, parroting about honesty and parroting about decency. Here, at the first available opportunity, we have them telling the people in this country over 70 years of age that what the Government said last December was nonsense and what it was doing was lying to them. 
I have never made any bones about my attitude in this place to means tests. I made my views known as a supporter of the Labor Government and now as a supporter of the Opposition. I happen to believe that the introduction of a means test pension for those people over 70 years of age- and this was not the intention- is not a bad or costly proposition. But the Government is going back on its promise to the pensioners so that it can save $22 m, as  Senator Chipp  says, at no cost. The Government has not really given us any reason for these people being picked on. 
I do not agree with the Government's economic point of view. I do not agree that the Government has to go beserk and cut government expenditure as it is doing. But if I did agree with the Government's economic strategy I would not agree that the people we have to take it off are the people over 70 years of age any more than I would agree that the people we have to take if off are the crippled, the blind or any other unfortunate people in the community. For that reason we oppose this clause. We will continue to do so despite  Senator Chipp  's attitude. 
-The Opposition opposes clause 6 which has the effect of changing the relevant period between which pension increases are automatically made from six months to 12 months. I do not need to go on at length about this provision. The Government parties initially made a promise in 1975 that the Government would automatically adjust pensions. That promise was originally made by the then  Mr Chipp,  now  Senator Chipp,  who was the shadow Minister for Social Security. After the 1975 election the Government seemed reluctant to introduce automatic indexation until prompted by the Opposition and, I must admit, by the then Government backbencher,  Mr Chipp.  Eventually, automatic indexation was introduced. As I said during the second reading debate, that is not quite what was promised. What was promised was automatic and immediate indexation of pensions with the consumer price index. 
As has been pointed out by many people, particularly the pensioners' organisations, there was nothing immediate about indexation. There was a delay of up to four months in pensioners catching up with price increases. Not only was that indexation promised but also it was eventually introduced, albeit imperfectly, and we had a form of indexation of pensions. Lengthy speeches were made from the government benches with self-praise pouring out and statements were made that politics had been taken out of pensions.  Senator Guilfoyle,  during the last election campaign, said that pensioners had been daily knocking on her door and thanking her for taking politics out of pensions. Firm promises which one can cite over and over again were made that this was firm government policy and that it would remain. In another place, in debate on this Bill, we have heard back benchers saying that they went around their electorates and told the pensioners that this automatic indexation would be retained. I see a stranger in the chamber now who, as I said before, called me a liar when I suggested that automatic indexation might not be continued. At the first available opportunity, that is the Budget, out came that promise. 
First of all, I believe in the automatic and regular increase of pensions with the consumer price index. The index need not necessarily be the consumer price index. It may be appropriate to do what many countries have done and that is introduce a social security index. Secondly, I believe that when a government makes a promise as firm as this one to the pensioners of the country it should follow it through. Thirdly, I believe that it is quite immoral for the Government to have done what it has in this case. I do not believe that the Australian Democrats will have trouble voting with us on this issue. 
-I want to speak briefly to this clause and repeat the Opposition 's objection to it. I am sorry that the debate has degenerated into the sort of personal clashes that it has because the issue is far too important for this. I was quite surprised by  Senator Rae's  contribution to this debate. I was in this chamber when  Senator Rae  actually crossed the floor to oppose a Budget measure- the abolition of the funeral benefit. This action resulted in an increase in expenditure at the time. To find  Senator Rae  now saying he does not believe that senators should indulge in this sort of ad hockery surprises me. It also surprises me that in the many discussion I have had with  Senator Rae  on the future of this place and the many times that I have heard him speak on this subject, he has frequently proclaimed the Senate's right to take action in situations like this. 
However, this clause is not just about the small amount of increase to the revenue which the Government will gain. This clause is about an absolute breach of faith by the Government. It involves the complete reversal of a promise the Government made to the pensioners of this country at two elections and many times in between. This clause involves the pensioners' faith in the legislative processes of this country. I believe such a loss of faith is severe if clause 6 stands and pensions are indexed only once a year. A few days ago at a meeting of a Senate Estimates committee, a senior officer of the Department of Social Security told us that no administrative problems were involved and that the administrative costs of six monthly indexation, as against yearly indexation, were very low indeed with modern computer methods. The only saving to revenue is the decrease in the amount of payment to pensioners. If 12-monthly indexation had been in operation in 1975-76, the pensioners would have received slightly over $2 a week less. If it had been in existence last year, they would have received over $3 a week less. We have inflation at a level barely more than it was in 1972 when the then Liberal Government introduced two pension changes. The inflation level is not that much more than it was in 1971 when the then Liberal Government introduced two pension changes. I am reminded of the Canadian situation where, under its pension plan, the rate is adjusted in many States every month and at the least every three months. There are no administrative difficulties there. The only saving to speak of is in the payment made to the pensioners. 
I come back to the fact that this action is a complete breach of faith and a complete going back on a promise. The small amount of money that is saved will not make one scrap of difference to the inflation rate in this country or to the budgetary strategy of the Government. It is a stupid action. It is the result of a government relying on unfeeling technocrats to draw up its budgetary strategy rather than showing concern for the social and financial effects on the people involved. I repeat our opposition to the clause. 
I rise to speak briefly on this matter. In the past,  Senator Cavanagh  and others, including me, have spoken in this place on this aspect of the social services legislation. Along with  Senator Cavanagh,  I believe that it is one of the most unsatisfactory aspects of the parent Act and of this amending legislation. But we do not oppose it this day, because what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Government have done is in keeping with the principal Act as it has always been written. I can remember reading- I believe that the Minister brought this up once before in this chamber- that when the original Act was introduced it was the people on the Minister's side of politics who objected to the powers given to the Director-General. They referred to him as the 'Dictator-General'. For years the method of handling applications by giving the Director-General a certain amount of discretion did not seem to cause much difficulty. It has been only in recent years, in particular because of the Karen Green case- those who do a lot of constituent work will know of many other cases- that the discretion used by the DirectorGeneral seems to have been changed. It seems to have been affecting people more harshly. 
I understand from the Minister that the Act is being looked at and that the Government is talking about rewriting the Act. I hope that the Government will look seriously at the provisions in this Act which give such discretions to the Director-General so that in future people will have their statutory rights under the legislation clearly written out; so that they will have their right to appeal clearly written out in statute. I hope that the discretion of the Director-General to overturn appeals by independent groups such as social security appeals tribunals will be written out of the Act. Then people may feel that justice is seen to be done as well as being done, and we will not have the hassles which have arisen in the past. Otherwise, we do not object to these clauses. 
-In my second reading speech I said that I had some personal difficulty with the wording of the amendment to clause 16. I continued my trek around the lawyers in all sorts of places in the Parliament to get some explanation. The consensus of my searches seems to be that it is indeed as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  says- that the result of the change in wording is to liberalise the section. I have personally accepted that explanation but I cannot speak for my legal colleague  Senator Cavanagh  who may not agree. I have no personal objection at the moment. 
I merely rise to express the Opposition's objections to clauses 21 and 22. I understand that  Senator Harradine  has an amendment to clause 22. These clauses abolish the maternity benefit. As I said in the second reading debate, the maternity benefit has decreased in value over the years. I believe it has not been increased since 1943. It is still a benefit which remains useful particularly to the very low income earners. The abolition of this benefit, combined with the failure to increase the allowances for pensioners' children and other beneficiaries' children and the failure to index the family allowances will contribute to the difficulties of low income families. As I said last night the Opposition opposes the abolition of the maternity benefit although we will not divide on it. 
I express the Opposition's objection to clauses 23 and 25. They introduce a new concept into those sections of the Social Services Act which deal with child endowment. The source of our objection is the definition of prescribed educational schemes. These include the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, the Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme, the Pre-School 
Teacher Education Assistance Scheme, the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme, the Commonwealth Teaching Service Scholarship Scheme and the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme. These clauses prohibit the payment of child endowment on behalf of children who are recipents of any of these scholarships. We think that these are unfortunate and fairly mean provisions. I accept that the Government has increased the TEAS allowance by some $5.50, not $3.30 or $3 or whatever figure I plucked out of the air in my comments during the second reading debate which upset  Senator Walters  so much. The TEAS allowance still remains a fairly low benefit. It is still a very severely means tested benefit. I think all honourable senators have had letters from groups and individuals who will be quite severely affected by this provision, particularly those in country areas who have children living in cities and trying to study at tertiary institutions. Times have changed since I was at a tertiary institution when it was relatively easy to get part time jobs to assist in surviving at such institutions. I believe that those reasons and the reasons we gave last night during the second reading debate sufficiently express our opposition to these two clauses. Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 24 (Child endowment). 
-Clause 24 changes the payment of child endowment from every four weeks to every month. There was some discussion in the second reading debate about how this will affect the amount paid to various recipients under this scheme. Although we do not oppose the change we merely point out that in the first year, which includes the payment date of 1 5 May, there will be a loss to parents with three or four children, which would I think include most parents. It is a small loss amounting to some $30, but we believe that added to other changes it may affect the income of low income earners. It may be a relatively large amount compared to their income. I realise the administrative difficulties of making up that loss in the first year. I realise also that in future in a full year they will in fact lose nothing and sometimes gain nothing. I certainly would not try to introduce an amendment to make up that $30 if I could because of the administrative difficulties. However, we point out, as Parents Without Partners and other groups have pointed out, that the difficulty does exist. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 26 to 44- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clauses 45 and 46- by leave- taken together. 
-The Opposition strenuously opposes clauses 45 and 46. These clauses have two effects. Clause 46 changes the indexation of unemployment and sickness benefits in the same way as previous clauses changed the indexation of age and invalid pensions from twice yearly to yearly. Our objection to that has been expressed in long debate this afternoon. Clause 45 changes the concept as far as unemployment and sickness benefits are concerned so that in future the unemployment beneficiary under the age of 1 8 will receive only $36 a week. We point out that that payment has remained the same since 1975. We accept we did not put it up in 1 975 but we believe the time has come now, in view of inflation and the effluxion of time, for that to be increased, even though I am not suggesting that it be increased to the full adult level. The provision we particularly object to is that those who are unemployed but who have no dependants will not have their benefits indexed as those who have dependants will. As I said last night in my second reading speech, I can find no justification for the introduction of this discriminatory measure. 
I realise that for many years the Government, even before it came into government, has been conducting a campaign against the unemployed in this country, particularly the young unemployed. I realise that, despite the figures, many Government members have refused, and still refuse, to accept the fact that there is an unemployment problem in this country. However, I am pleased to note the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  albeit reluctantly, now agree that there is a problem which is increasing. I point out two main groups which are affected by this unemployment situation. First, we have the young unemployed who can find no jobs. The second group comprises the middle aged unemployed who are being put out of work by automation, technological change and structural change in the community; they have particular difficulty, because they have no other skills and because of their age, in finding new jobs. This will become more serious particularly in the clerical and communication industries with the introduction of word processors, computers and the various technological changes in electronic communications. 
These people are unemployed through no fault of their own. Because they have no dependants, frequently they live alone. What the 
Government is doing is introducing a discriminatory measure whereby the middle aged unemployed whether they be widowers, bachelors or spinsters who have no dependants, will wait at the whim of the Government before they have their benefit increased. There is an implication in this proposal that these people are in fact unemployed through their own fault. I believe it is an implication that is not justified and there is no justification for separating these people from others in the community. I realise that the Government has succeeded fairly well over the last couple of years in its campaign to denigrate the unemployed. We do not accept that action. I can see no justice in this proposal. The only explanation the Minister has given is that it was necessary for budgetary measures, and very few figures are provided on the amount that will be saved. I pointed out last night that this is a significant percentage of the unemployed and that approximately 98 per cent of the people affected live on some $3 a week or less apart from their unemployment benefit and are dependent on their unemployment benefit. Therefore, we oppose this measure. 
-The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1978 is opposed by the Opposition. We cannot support the Bill, the chief intentions of which are to freeze pensions paid to the sufferers of pulmonary tuberculosis, to grant no more new pensions under the present basis for that illness, to do away with the sustenance allowance and replace it with a loss of earnings provision and to bring Service pensions into conformity with the other social security pensions by indexing them only once a year and granting cost of living increases to those pensioners over 70 years of age only if they qualify under the means test. We concur with the Government's intention in the Bill to widen the definition of organisations representing returned soldiers for the purposes of nominating them to positions on determining boards. However, that is not a major purpose of the Bill and can be passed separately. 
I accept that times have changed as far as tuberculosis is concerned. The present tuberculosis allowance was introduced in times when the treatment of tuberculosis was not adequate, when it was important that those people who suffered from tuberculosis and had been treated did not return to conditions of economic difficulty. People suffering from tuberculosis and receiving treatment at the time needed more peace of mind than could be guaranteed by the economic conditions of the day. Therefore, it was reasonable to have this very generous benefit. The Opposition agrees that this benefit could now be modified but it does not agree that the benefit should be abolished in the way proposed. We particularly object to the method by which the Government has gone about this change. It introduced legislation to perform this task before the last election. When it became obvious that the Government was calling an election earlier than expected, the legislation was withdrawn. The representatives of the tubercular exservicemen were under the impression that the legislation had been withdrawn for good. At the first opportunity after its re-election, the Government introduced this Bill to remove the benefits that were previously available. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the Opposition's spokesman on veterans' affairs in the other place, has adequately put the case for our objections to this legislation. He did so in a particularly telling manner by reading a document from Padre A. Singleton on behalf of those exservicemen who suffer from tuberculosis. It would do members of the Government a lot of good to read this document which puts the case succinctly and clearly. It should make Government members think, particularly in view of the fact that they had previously given tubercular exservicemen the impression that this Government had withdrawn the legislation. 
The Opposition's objection to the other clauses of the Bill are clear and have been given in the debate on the previous Bill, the Social Services Amendment Bill. As there is no undue necessity to debate this subject at length, I express our opposition to it and am happy to let the debate move to the Committee stages. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the Housing Allowance Experiment been abandoned or postponed. 
What was the cost of work done on the Housing Allowance Experiment program since the program was established, including staff and consultants. 
What investigations and reports were prepared in connection with the Housing Allowance Experiment and will the Minister make these available to senators and members on request. 
I enter the debate because I am not completely satisfied with the reply of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in regard to clause 14. In drawing the Minister's attention to the difficulty in regard to clause 14,  Senator Cavanagh  has demonstrated his ability to indulge in lateral thinking, for which many of us envy him. I must admit that when I read clause 14 I took the Minister's attitude to it; that it was to enable a fund to introduce new conditions which would attract more customers to it. Therefore the fund would advertise such schemes, as the Hibernian society has done, to attract certain groups. But as  Senator Cavanagh  has pointed out, this provision also allows a fund to introduce conditions, with the approval of the Minister, without the knowledge of existing or future contributors. Therefore the contributors would not know what was going on. 
Thinking off the top of my head, I must say that it is difficult to imagine circumstances in which funds would do that, but we have all sorts of medical funds in this country. We have health funds that are run by doctors and by all sorts of sectional groups which may at various times run into trouble. To get themselves out of trouble they may get the Minister's approval- secretly if the Minister is that sort of person- to change their regulations without any of their contributors knowing what is going on. That is a possibility well worth looking at. I really cannot see why the Rules Publication Act is not applied in this case, why it is not necessary for any such changes in guidelines, if the Minister approves them, to be made public and to be made available to this Parliament. To my mind the Minister has not given a proper explanation as to why the Rules Publication Act does not apply in subsection (4) of proposed new section 73E and why the Parliament's ability to peruse the new guidelines approved by the Minister have been removed in this way. 
-Can the AttorneyGeneral clarify the situation of the Australian Legal Aid Office in Tasmania? In particular, how much is the Office in debt? Are solicitors and other legal practitioners in Tasmania not being paid money owed to them? How many people are being refused assistance because of the shortage of money in this Office? 
-Tonight when I came into the chamber to speak I found on my desk a note which said: 'Don, I am terribly sorry I will not be in the Senate tonight to hear your forty-eighth speech on the health insurance legislation. I remember with nostalgia the time we spoke au pair on this issue'. It was signed by my colleague who sits next to me. This certainly seems to be about the forty-eighth time that I and others in this place have spoken on this subject. My colleague in another place,  Dr Klugman,  reminded the House of Representatives that this was the eighth time in the last two years that the national Health Act had been amended and the ninth time in the last three years that the Health Insurance Act had been amended. Prior to that we had had two debates in the House of Representatives and the Senate, a joint sitting and a further two or three debates in both Houses in order to introduce a national health scheme in this country. It seems that since 1974 we have done nothing but modify that scheme. 
As I have said on previous occasions during debates such as this, it is a great disappointment to those of us who are interested in health care that for all the words that have been spoken in this chamber and in the other chamber, for all the words that have filled the newspapers and been heard on television and radio programs, we have never done anything that really affects the quality of health care in the community. Nothing we have done has ever made one iota of difference to the longevity of people in this country, to the infant mortality rate, to the morbidity rates or mortality rates for any of the illnesses, and that is a great pity. The result of all the changes, particularly in the last two years, has been confusion in the community and an insecurity which is obvious to all members of parliament when they consider the number of inquiries by constituents about the best action for them to take to deal with their health insurance in the future. One leading newspaper in this country today had a four-page supplement advising people what to do about the latest changes. It is not often that I quote editorials in this place, but I should like now to quote the first couple of paragraphs of the editorial in today's  Canberra Times,  which I think sums up the problem very succinctly and very well. The editorial states: 
As the people of Australia decide this week whether to insure themselves against sickness or injury, they are entitled to ask how long it will be before the national health scheme is once more turned inside out. It has been a feature of the present Government's management methods to arbitrarily overhaul the rules governing health insurance, personal income tax, company taxation and other areas of government business without giving due regard to the economic and social costs thereby incurred. The result has been a proliferation of laws and regulations, upheavals in the Public Service, disruption in private enterprise and confusion and puzzlement on the part of the vast majority of people. Any private business managed in the same way would go to the wall. 
Significantly, the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  is not prepared to say outright that the health scheme introduced in the Budget, and developed after the Budget, will not be changed again next year. The budgetary circumstances in which it was introduced indicate that it could be short-lived and, besides, the main components of the scheme will probably lead with inexorable logic to a number of possible outcomes that will in effect mean breakdown. 
As the editorial says, the result has been confusion and insecurity. That is a great pity because none of the substantial changes in these Bills will affect the standard of health care in this country. I submit that none of them will increase the efficiency of the system, none will decrease the cost of health care. It is for that reason that the Opposition wishes to move the amendment circulated in my name. It expresses our opposition and our desire that the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) be withdrawn, redrafted and resubmitted in a more sensible manner. However, bearing in mind the realities of the situation in this place, that will not happen. Nevertheless, as a record of our attitude, I move: 
At end of motion add- except the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1 978 in relation to which the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide- 
for the bulk billing by doctors prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment; 
for the bulk billing of eligible pensioners at 85 per cent of the common fee in full payment; 
for the payment of a refund of 75 per cent of the common fee or all except $20, whichever is the greater, for medical bills; and 
that the Health Insurance Commission continue to be the paying authority. 
There are some minor sections of the legislation that we do not oppose, but the major portions of the legislation, which has confused everybody in the community, including members of parliament, we do oppose. We believe that they are unnecessary; we believe that they are based on wrong premises. The only certain results of this legislation that we can see are that hundreds of Medibank employees will lose their jobs and many low income earners and so-called disadvantaged people will suffer because of the changes to bulk billing. We can see no other results. Those are the only results that will occur. The legislation also introduces what we believe is a distasteful concept whereby doctors will be asked to make judgments about who in the community is disadvantaged- what was previously called socially disadvantaged- and therefore will receive their charity. We believe that that concept is more appropriate to the last century. It was removed largely by the introduction of the original Medibank plan and we believe that it is quite wrong to reintroduce it. 
No, it says 'disadvantaged'. Previously the legislation referred to socially disadvantaged people, which is a concept I will talk about later on. Another significant thing is that all the major changes being introduced by this legislation are introduced without supporting evidence as to their expected effectiveness, their economic effectiveness and their medical effectiveness. One of the tragedies in this country is that largely we have no data on which to make judgments about the basis of health insurance planning. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  admitted this in another place on 24 May when he said: 
Until an improved data base becomes available, the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. 
That was on 24 May last, and there has not been much new data available since then. But what evidence we have had available, evidence produced by the Minister's own Department and by  Dr Deeble,  suggests that in fact the changes to bulk billing will add to the costs as well as cause disadvantage to patients. There is no more evidence available, no more data, but these considerable changes are being introduced. The changes are not the result of the monitoring of the system; they are not the result of alterations to the system. They are the result of ideological prejudices and misconceptions on the part of the Government, egged on by the Australian Medical Association. Despite the fact that a survey of doctors in general and members of the Australian Medical Association in particular showed that a majority of doctors favoured bulk billing, the AMA disregarded its members' views and, with the assistance of the voluntary health funds, supported the Government's approach to bulk billing. Without evidence, initially the Government proposed to abolish bulk billing except for pensioners; now it is introducing a modified form of bulk billing. This ideological blindness, regardless of the facts and regardless of the views of people who conduct health care in this country, bedevils our health insurance planning, and has done for some time. An unfortunate side effect of this legislation is that the facts and figures which will be needed for further planning will not now be available. This will add to the general atmosphere of blindness with which we approach health and welfare in this country. 
The main effect of the legislation is in fact the abolition of the Medibank levy although a 1.5 per cent levy on taxation has been introduced in other legislation. The legislation involves the payment of 40 per cent of the schedule fee as against 75 per cent in recent months or 85 per cent when Medibank was introduced. It involves the retention of the payment of 85 per cent of the schedule fee for the treatment of eligible pensioners and the payment of 75 per cent of the schedule fee for the bulk billing of patients who are, in the view of the doctor providing the service, socially disadvantaged. 
No, it is not in the legislation now. There are changes consequent to the changes to the Health Insurance Commission. I will not go into detail on them but we may deal with them in Committee. The Government's attitude to the Medibank levy is a perfect example of its confused approach. When the Government was in opposition I sat where  Senator Hamer,  who is to follow me in this debate, is sitting now. I well remember members of the then Opposition opposed the introduction of any sort of levy. They voted against it. We all remember that on achieving government they introduced a levy of 2.5 per cent. They claimed that this would create efficiency, make people aware of the costs of health care and reduce their alleged abuse of it. Now we find that the levy is to be removed again. All this has happened in less than three years. In the process, the cost to revenue will be $62 lm. That is a considerable contrast to the attitude last week of the Government in relation to its social services legislation. 
The payment of only 40 per cent of the schedule fee will be unfortunate enough in its effects on low income earners, but the manner in which the payment is to be made makes it doubly unfortunate. The efficient structure of payment and record keeping which has been built up by Medibank is to be dismantled. Payments will be made the responsibility of the multiplicity of voluntary health funds in the community and Medibank Private. These funds, as everyone knows, vary considerably in their efficiency. There is no doubt in the world, as admitted by the health funds themselves, that they will seek and obtain a considerable increase on the amount of $1.52 per claim that they are to be paid. I submit that there is no possibilitycertainly no evidence has been produced by the Government- that there will be any gain in efficiency or economy after the introduction of such a method of payment. Only confusion can result. 
One of the results of this legislation and the confusion which obviously was not predicted when it was first introduced is that we now have appeals in the letter columns of the newspapers, and advertisements by the Minister for Health, Government representatives and representatives of the Australian Medical Association for people to insure, to take out voluntary health insurance. This new-found concern for universal coverage in health insurance by the AMA arises out of the fact that the young and healthy in this country will eventually do their sums. They will discover that it is worth the risk not to insure at all. As economic conditions worsen this tendency may well increase. People will take the human approach of not worrying about the future but worrying about how much comes out of their pay packet each week. A result will be that those who take out health insurance will be those with high claim rates- the chronically ill and those who are prone to illness. The insurance pool of premiums paid by these people will be atypical and the cost of insurance will be higher than it should have been and could have been. 
It is no wonder that the medical profession and the Government are concerned that such a large number of people will be uninsured, people who in this modern life can suffer all sorts of unforseen accidents. But the Government and the profession are concerned as a result of their own actions. It is the result of continuing pressures by the ideologists in the upper echelons of the Australian Medical Association. The result may not be what they wanted but it will be their own fault. This is why we believe, obviously the  Canberra Times  believes and certainly any knowledgeable observer of the scene believes that Medibank Mark 4, Mark 3  Vi,  Mark 5 or whatever it is cannot last and will not last. There will be further and further modification. I believe that the sooner the spokesmen for the medical profession and the Australian Medical Association in particular become concerned about total health care and are not totally preoccupied with methods of payment to themselves and methods of funding, the sooner government will receive sound advice and the sooner we will get a better health system. 
This gypsy syndrome, as I call it, which is defined as the condition in which proper medical care cannot be provided unless the palms of the doctors are crossed with silver should not dominate health care discussions in this country, as it has in the past. I dare say that some of those who follow me in this debate will say that I am knocking the doctors and that I am knocking my own profession. I am not doing so. I am knocking those ultra-conservative people, most of them are not in active practice, who are giving the sort of advice which the Government is taking at the moment. The concept has been introduced in this Bill of creating a special category of person who is 'in the opinion of the practitioner rendering the service a disadvantaged person'. This concept, which was introduced so that these people can be bulk billed at a lower rate other than eligible patients, such as pensioners, is, as I said before, distasteful and archaic. As  Senator Cavanagh  said, the term used when the concept was first mentioned earlier in the year was 'socially disadvantaged'. We were to have some legal definition of this term so that people would know where they stood. There is no such definition in this legislation. There will be no such definition because, as the Government says, it cannot be defined. I am perfectly aware, as a medical practitioner, that doctors in practice have made this sort of decision in the past. Because of our health system they have had to decide that some people were poor and could not afford the full cost of medical care. 
That is certainly so. The fact that doctors have had to do it in the past does not make it correct. It certainly does not make it appropriate in this day and age. The term 'disadvantaged' is not defined in the legislation because it is indefinable. I know that the Government envisages that many noble men and women will make decisions- on what grounds we know not- as to whether a patient is disadvantaged. But doctors, like everybody else in the community, will vary considerably in their judgment. A doctor who works in the slums, the low socio-economic areas, will see all his patients as disadvantaged. He always has. The troglodytes from the General Practitioners Society will see no one who is disadvantaged. They will charge them all as they do now. They will not even give pensioners the benefit of a concessional rate. 
Medical practitioners are not, nor have they ever been, trained to make decisions like that. One of the criticisms of the professional training of doctors- I believe it is justified- is that they are too separated during their years of training from the mainstream of society. As we all know, they are separated from the mainstream of university life, certainly in the last three or four years of their training. I know that efforts are being made to change this but the vast majority of doctors were not trained to make this sort of judgment. 
The fact remains that many disadvantaged people through the ignorance of their doctors, through the inability of their doctors to judge them as disadvantaged or through the fact that their doctors are too busy to look at this concept properly will have to find 60 per cent or more of their medical fees whereas previously they had to find much less. This is 1978 and we should not have people in the community dependent on the charitable whims of others when we can avoid it. If a patient considers himself disadvantaged, can he appeal against the decision of a doctor to the contrary? If so, on what criteria can he make such an appeal? Perhaps the reply is the old one that he can go to the outpatients section of the hospital, if there is one around. I suggest that the whole concept is distasteful. I suggest that those few doctors who welcome the opportunity to make these decisions are the last ones who should have the right to make them. I believe that to introduce this sort of thing in 1978 is quite wrong. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Health have both indicated that bulk billing of this type will be monitored and a careful watch will be kept to see that it is not abused. But on what basis does the monitoring occur if the group cannot be defined? How can the Government monitor bulk billing if it cannot write down who is supposed to be in this category? It probably includes new migrants and a few others. A final unfortunate consequence of this restriction is that many hard working rural doctors who travel long distances, who work without relief and who do not receive the income or the leisure time of city doctors will be reimbursed at a lower fee and will receive lower benefits as a result of this move. It is quite unnecessary. It was this group of doctors which convinced the Minister and the Government that bulk billing should not be abolished altogether. It is this group of doctors who will be disadvantaged by the present scheme. 
Another aspect of this legislation is the fact that the abolition of Medibank Standard and the cutting back of the functions of the Health Insurance Commission will, of course, mean a loss of some hundreds of jobs and the loss of skills acquired in the last few years by Medibank personnel. We have all seen their efforts to preserve their jobs and to preserve a system they believe in. The handing over of the payment of the Government's 40 per cent benefit to the health funds is done, as I said before, without providing any evidence for administrative or economic advantage. In fact, it is hard to find a commentator who does not believe that the opposite will happen, that there will be in fact administrative difficulties and economic disadvantage. The gathering of statistical information on which to base future reviews of health care and health insurance will be immeasurably more difficult with this division of functions. We know that many people will not insure. We know that as economic conditions worsen this number will increase. As I said before, this inevitably will mean a skewing of the pool of insured people towards the unhealthy, towards the high risk patients and towards the high claims group. 
Inevitably this will result either in higher premiums or higher government subsidies. That is why none of us believes that this present modification of Medibank can last. This is the reason why not even the Government believes, if one reads the second reading speech, that it will last very long. The reason is that the answer to higher health costs in this country and the answer to a more efficient health service lies not in fiddling with the health insurance system. We need a system of universal health insurance. We had it from 1 July 1975 when Medibank was introduced. It was a system that was working effectively. It was a system that was accepted by the community. It was accepted so much that the Prime Minister, in his election speeches in 1 975 and again in 1977, even after he had made some modifications, said: 'We are committed to preserving Medibank. We are committed to preserving this system.' Then, of course, he proceeded to tear it apart. 
The claim has always been that the reason this is being done is that the rate of increase in total health costs was too great and that the changes made by the Government each time would bring down that rate of increase. Concern has been expressed about the rate of increase of health costs in this country, not since 1975 when Medibank was introduced, not since 1972 when Labor came to power but back in the late 1 960s when we had the Nimmo investigation into health insurance in this country.  Mr Gorton,  then Prime Minister, at that time had his famous argument with the profession and with the voluntary health funds, and  Mr McMahon-  as he was then- in a much milder way, of course, later had his arguments with the voluntary health funds. If we look at the figures in recent years, we find the annual rate of increase in total health costs in this country was 20 per cent in 1 973-74 and 36.6 per cent in 1974-75. 
This was before the introduction of Medibank and it reflected the reaction of the doctors at the time who were panic stricken at the thought of having a health insurance system introduced. They slapped up their fees right, left and centre. The figure then dropped back to 27.1 per cent after the introduction of Medibank in 1975-76 and came down in 1976-77 to 19.7 per cent. One could argue perfectly reasonably that these increased costs had nothing much to do with the introduction of Medibank or that they actually started' to go down after the introduction of Medibank. But to suggest that they have only decreased because of the modifications made by this Government is ludicrous and is laughed at in many circles. It is important that we have a universal health scheme. It is important that that universal health scheme pays out to those people in need in the community. In my view, it is equally important that contributions to that universal health scheme have as their basis people's ability to pay. That was the original concept of Medibank. This concept of paying only 40 per cent means inadequate payments for medical services in the community. This concept means that people who can well afford to pay will opt out if they are young and fit. This will mean an imbalance in the contributions to health insurance in this country. I believe from that will result disaster and the necessity for further change. As the Minister and the Department well know, if we are to look at the future of health care in this country so that we have efficient and economic health care, we cannot look only at health insurance. In fact, once we have a proper universal health insurance scheme- this scheme will not provide it- we can then look more correctly at the number of hospital beds in this community and their distribution. We can look at the use of diagnostic and therapeutic services, at their costs and at their cost benefits in the community. We can look at the use and abuse of drug therapy in this community. Then perhaps eventually we can get down to looking at the efficiency of that sacred cow in this country- the fee for service system. 
We can look at the figures that are available with an eye that is not jaundiced or biased by ideological prejudice as to whether the fee for service system really is the most efficient and best system not only for the community but also for the individuals in the community. That is what other countries are doing, not only the countries of Europe which have social democratic governments but also the United States where vast numbers of people are looking at this sort of system. They are looking at health maintenance organisations. They are looking at other methods of funding health insurance which do not rely on a fee for service system and which do not rely on the crossing of the palm with silver to ensure efficiency. When we get to that stage, when we get over the debate on health insurance which is befuddling or clouding the issue and obsessing doctors, patients, the Press and governments in this country, and when we get down to looking at and evaluating the sort of system that we have now and looking carefully at the methods we use and the distribution of our services, we may end up with an efficient health service: we may end  up having in this place and other places debates which involve increasing the longevity of our citizens, improving our infant mortality rate and improving our situation in the world health stakes. We may look at the reason why, in the 1930s, we used to vie with New Zealand as the most healthy country and why now in the 1970s we are eleventh or twelfth on the list of healthy countries. We may look at why countries such as Japan have a better infant mortality rate and why countries such as Italy have a better longevity rate. Then we may get some sensible debate on this subject. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Is the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Grimes  seconded? 
-The Minister now has me deeper in the mire and I suspect that the Government is deeper in the mire. I can appreciate her difficulty because it is not her legislation. If the Minister for Health is to require that any fund which has optional deductibles makes those deductibles public by way of advertistements, publications and all the other things the Minister listed what on earth is the reason for including sub-section (4) of proposed new section 73E, which states that the Rules Publication Act 1903 does not apply. If the whole matter is to be made public in that way why not make it public in the normal way that rules under this Act are made public? My second question is: Why take away from this Parliament the ability to disallow guidelines which the Minister has approved and which the Minister may approve for motives quite apart from assisting the contributions to that fund? Why make the guidelines secret in the first place? Why, if the guidelines are not going to be made secret, scrub the Rules Publication Act? Why take away from the Parliament the power to disallow such changes in the guidelines? I have not heard an explanation. I cannot now, even more than when  Senator Cavanagh  first raised the matter, understand why this change has been made. I seriously suggest at this hour of the night that if the Minister for Health has a further explanation, the Minister for Social Security should seek that information and let us know of it tomorrow. 
Taking up a further point, I just do not understand the reference of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to the term flexibility'. She says that the provision somehow allows more flexibility. My understanding of proposed new sub-section (4) is that the Rules Publication Act does not apply to sub-section (2) and therefore the Minister does not have to publish and make known the guidelines which are introduced under sub-section (2). I just do not see how the application of proposed new subsection (4) makes any difference to the Minister's ability to approve new guidelines or new optional deductible tables at all. All the provision means is that the Minister does not have to publish the guidelines in the usual way under the Rules Publication Act. Under the changes to proposed new section 73E(2) the Parliament will have no ability to overrule the Minister's regulation. What has that to do with flexibility? 1 do not know. I would like to know. I still have not been convinced. I am fascinated that the proposed new sub-section (4) is sought to be inserted in the Act. Why should the Rules Publication Act not apply? Why did it apply before? 
I repeat the suggestion I made earlier. I am afraid that it is not good enough for me or any other honourable senator on this side of the chamber to have the reply: 'I have sought advice. 
I have given you advice. That is as far as we can go. Surely the Committee should be satisfied with that advice or, if it is not satisfied with that advice, it should take a vote on the issue'. It is very difficult to take a vote on an issue when we believe that we have not received an explanation of this proposed change. I do not want to be unreasonable about this, and I am sure that  Senator Cavanagh  does not want to be unreasonable about it. 
We have heard nothing from any honourable senator on the other side of the chamber apart from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  We would like at least to receive a further explanation on this and, perhaps, to have the opportunity to consult with some of our legal colleagues on this. I merely suggest- 1 November is a long way off- that we leave this issue until tomorrow so that the Minister can seek further advice. We could then consider it. 1 believe that there is a problem. I merely make that suggestion and do not make it in any obstructive way. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. We merely remark that the need for them demonstrates the haste and the difficulties that the Government had in introducing the latest modifications. I re-emphasise the Opposition's objections to the introduction of certain proposed new sections to the Act, the sections which introduce the new concept of what the Government calls 'disadvantaged people'. When the changes were first announced the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  referred to 'socially disadvantaged people '. There is no definition in the legislation of a disadvantaged person. This means that the definition is left entirely up to the medical practitioner who is providing the service. There is no appeal by any person against a doctor who refuses to consider him a disadvantaged person. 
The Minister pointed out during her summing up of the Bill at the second reading stage that in fact the Australian Medical Association and the Doctors Reform Society had promised to cooperate with the Government in its treatment of disadvantaged persons. That is simply not good enough. Certainly one can expect all members of the Doctors Reform Society to take a reasonable attitude as to who is disadvantaged under this Bill. We cannot expect the Australian Medical Association with its broad spectrum of members to ensure that its members take a reasonable attitude. But there are other doctors who are not in the Australian Medical Association or the Doctors Reform Society, some of whom are in the General Practitioners Society of Australia, who simply refuse to treat anyone as disadvantaged. These doctors will not even bulk bill pensioners. They practice in some pockets of the population where pensioners and disadvantaged people will get short shrift. One can pinpoint a section of the eastern shore of Hoban in Tasmania, for instance, where this will happen. It is not good enough. 
We do not know what patients can be considered disadvantaged patients. Doctors do not know. They have no guidelines apart from the few categories listed in the Minister's second reading speech. Doctors do not really know what disadvantaged people are. Doctors will have varying views on what disadvantaged people are. We have an increasing unemployment rate in this country and, on the Government's own admission, this unemployment rate will increase. Under anybody's criteria, the vast majority of unemployed people will surely be considered disadvantaged people. They will not receive medical benefit cards as do pensioners; yet we will have a situation in which people in some cities or parts of cities and in some towns and parts of towns will be treated as disadvantaged people by doctors and not be charged anything and in other places people will either have to pay or have to go to a local outpatients clinic if there is one. This is surely an entirely unsatisfactory and archaic situation which should not have been introduced into this country in 1978. It would not have been introduced and this difficulty would not have arisen if the original concept of Medibank had been retained and a return of some 85 per cent of the scheduled fee was available to uninsured people. 
This portion of the legislation is one portion which will need to be changed. It is one section of the legislation which makes me predict quite confidently that next May or even earlier we will be back here again debating a health insurance amendment BUI as we have done every six months almost since this Government came to power. It is an unfair provision. It is unfair to doctors. It is unfair to patients. It is unfair to the so-called disadvantaged people in the community. We regret that the Government saw fit to introduce it. 
What the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has just said is the very crux of the Opposition's objections to this legislation. I would prefer not to see any bureaucratic definitions. I would prefer to retain the original Medibank concept of an 85 per cent refund. The Minister, in reply to  Senator Harradine  and me, has talked about groups of disadvantaged people and the very real possibility that some doctors will refuse to consider them as disadvantaged or will refuse to treat them as disadvantaged. In those circumstances they will receive only a 40 per cent refund, as  Senator Harradine  mentioned. The Minister has quite clearly stated that only 40 per cent of the fee will be refunded to them. Therefore, they will become even more disadvantaged than they were in the first place. The Minister has - 
That was what I am about to ask. We, as members of Parliament, I understand are to monitor this situation. If we find areas where there are groups of people who are being ignored and not being treated properly, I understand from  Senator Baume-  not from the Minister- that the solution will be to march in - 
One solution of this may be to march in salaried medical officers to treat them. I will accept that as a very sensible solution. It is one solution but I am interested to hear of other solutions. That is all very well if we have groups of disadvantaged people, groups of unemployed, groups of low income earnershowever they can be detected- and groups of new refugees and migrants, but what about the poor individual, not a great group, who is disadvantaged in an area and is ignored- 
-What about the poor disadvantaged person like  Senator Georges  who has just interjected, who is not in a group? Will the Government send in a salaried medical officer to treat him? This whole matter is fraught with difficulties. It is fraught with impossibilities because the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have talked about monitoring the situation to do something about those doctors who will bulk bill everybody, will regard everybody as disadvantaged and thereby in the eyes of the Government, will be ripping off the system. How will we find out who those doctors are, and what will the Government do about them when they are found? What will it charge them with? How will it monitor the situation when there is no definition of disadvantaged people in the Act. I think the whole situation is impossible. I think it will be administratively impossible and that is why again I predict we will be back here next May looking at further amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill 1978 
The Bill. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: What has happened to the  Social Security Quarterly  formerly produced by her Department? It seems not to have appeared this year. Has the impounding of this journal by her Director-General during the last election campaign anything to do with its non-appearance since then? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether it is the Government's intention this year to refuse the unemployment benefit to workers laid off during the Christmas period or the three-week factory shutdown that we have over the Christmas-New Year period. If this is so, would she advise any persons considering accepting work in the next month to take only casual work so that they will not be considered as employed during the shutdown and therefore ineligible for the unemployment benefit, as happened last year? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: What plans are there for the continued funding of National Employment and Training scheme programs directed at retraining unemployed women? In particular, I ask about the future of Tasmanian programs. Will they continue to receive funding when the present courses finish in December? 

 -Mr Chairman, as I have been dragged unwillingly into this debate, I wish to point out that, unlike the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  at this late stage of the session I do not think I have lost my sense of humour, and that was the basis of my interjection. I merely point out that I share  Senator Cavanagh  's disgust and concern that we should allow something like this to go through this place- something with such unnecessary verbiage in it. We get enough unnecessary verbiage in this place from both sides without having it appear in Bills and Acts. I am sorry that the Minister will not take  Senator Cavanagh  seriously. I am sorry that he has lost his sense of humour so early in his ministerial career. It augurs badly for the future for him and the whole of the country, I believe. 
Bills reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the total amount approved under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act 1974 for the Triennium 1976-79. 
What amount was approved for expenditure by: (a) geriatric organisations; (b) disabled adults' organisations; and (c) disabled children's organisations, in each State on: (i) staff payments; (ii) food supplies; (iii) medical supplies; (iv) domestic payments; (v) motor vehicle operating costs; (vi) fuel and power; (vii) maintenance repairs; (viii) administrative payments; and (ix) assets under $400, in each State. 
What was the total amount expended in the first two years of the Triennium. 
What amount has been expended during this period by: (a) geriatric organisations; (b) disabled adults' organisations; and (c) disabled children's organisations, in each State. 
-Does the Minister for Social Security recall, in answer to me in the Senate Estimates Committee C hearings on 16 October, saying that the reason that the Commonwealth compensation payments once again this year have not been increased was that the Commonwealth payments were ahead of some of the States. She agreed to give figures to show this position. As the figures have now been supplied, I ask the Minister: Do the figures in fact show that the Commonwealth is ahead of only two States and that four States in fact have indexation of their compensation payments? Is it the Government's intention to wait until Commonwealth payments are behind all of the States for all of the specific payments that are available under the Act, or at what level will the Government consider increasing compensation payments under the Commonwealth employees' compensation scheme? 
-The Senate is discussing a matter of public importance raised by  Senator Ryan,  namely, the Government's discriminatory actions towards the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed, in a period of worsening employment opportunities. We have just listened to a speech from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I must say that I have some sympathy for  Senator Durack. His  heart obviously was not in it, but I will concede that at the end of his speech he said that  Senator Ryan  quite rightly raised this matter for discussion before the Senate. I point out that  Senator Ryan  not only raised this matter but also listed specific cases of what she considers to be discrimination against the unemployed. I would like to point out that  Senator Durack  answered none of those points.  Senator Ryan's  matter of public importance is most appropriate in the closing days of this parliamentary year because in it she refers to the most serious and pressing problem facing this country today. This is not only the view of the Opposition but also the frequently expressed view of  Mr George  Polites of the Australian employers organisation. He certainly is not a Labor supporter. More recently it has become the view of the now  President  and ex-secretary of the Returned Services League of this country,  Mr Bill  Keys. It is the view of almost every newspaper editorialist in this country. It also is the view of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  and I recommend to honourable senators a reading of his major speech on this subject in the House in the last few months. It is even the view of other Government members. 
All that  Senator Ryan  got for her pains was to be castigated for presenting in the Senate a tale of woe, as it was described. We received from the Attorney-General the complaint that he was unable to check the figures for 1978 on such things as the number of school leavers entering the work force this year. I recommend to the Attorney-General the Australian Bureau of Statistics publications, such as  'Labor Force in Australia'  which is produced regularly, and surveys of civilian employees and of employment and unemployment which are produced monthly and in some cases quarterly. To find out the estimated number of school leavers entering the work force this year I recommend that he use the same method I used this very day, that is, ringing the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, which I understand he represents in this place. From it he will learn that 255,000 young people will leave school and come into the work force this year. The figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics show us that at the end of last month almost 100,000 young people under 20 years of age were unemployed in this country and that about 40,000 of them were looking for their first jobs. Most of these were school leavers from 1977. 1 do not believe that anyone in this Senate should view that situation with the complacency with which it was viewed by the Attorney-General. 
In some of the more populous suburbs of this country, the percentage of unemployed people under 21 years, expressed as a percentage of the total number of unemployed, is in fact quite frightening. Let me take Sydney as an example. In Liverpool, some 49 per cent of people unemployed are under 2 1 years. In Parramatta, some 41 per cent of people unemployed are under 21 years. In Mount Druitt and Blacktown the figures are 45 per cent and 46 per cent respectively. In Penrith, 45 per cent of people unemployed are under 2 1 years. In the western suburbs of Melbourne and the equivalent areas of other States the figures are similar. In the rural areas of Australia, where unemployment generally is higher than in the metropolitan areas, the figure for youth unemployment is almost consistently higher still. 
What we must remember also, and what is not shown in the statistics because so often they are inadequate in this regard, is that these people are frequently the sons and daughters of people who are unemployed. Unemployment in this country and in other countries frequently runs in families and is perpetuated in families. Disadvantage breeds disadvantage. In fact, looking at the figures produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and those in the quarterly survey of people in receipt of benefits which is prepared by the Department of Social Security, we ascertain the following facts: More than one person in four who is unemployed is a young person under 20 years of age who has not had a job; more than half the unemployment beneficiaries who are classified as school leavers had been receiving an unemployment benefit for more than six months; and 40 per cent of beneficiaries receiving the married rate of unemployment benefit had been receiving that benefit for more than six months. In August 1978, 98.5 per cent of beneficiaries without dependants had no continuing income. These are the people who, as  Senator Ryan  mentioned, will be discriminated against by the Government's budgetary action. A total of 94.7 per cent of beneficiaries with a dependent wife and children had no continuing income. Out of those people receiving the unemployment benefit, 53.7 per cent are under 25 years of age. In August 1978 more than 20,000 people had been receiving the unemployment benefit for more than 18 months. The average time for which people receive the unemployment benefit at the moment is 26 weeks, which is twice as long as it was when this Government took office.  Senator Durack  may well call that a tale of woe. I certainly call it a tale of woe. It is a tragic situation. It is not a situation which can be written off with mere words spoken in the Senate and with words of condemnation of  Senator Ryan  for bringing up the subject. 
I realise that the endless repetition of figures that are familiar to us all does not help the situation. It is enough to say- this is accepted by almost everyone in the community- that unemployment is bad, that we have a very serious situation and that it is particularly bad amongst the young. On the admission of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget, unemployment will get worse. On the admission of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, in a very serious and major speech in another place recently, the problem will be long term and intractable. Lastly, and reluctantly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  appropriately perhaps at a Rotary Club luncheon, admitted for the first time that we have an unemployment problem. He was possibly the last person in this country to publicly admit it. I assume that there are still Ministers like  Mr Eric  Robinson who believe that unemployment is a myth. I suppose that there are still Ministers who believe that to continue the disgraceful campaign of attacking so-called dole bludgers is a worthwhile political tactic. 
I must say that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has had a change of heart, however belatedly that change may be. When she first became Minister in January 1976 she castigated school teachers who at the time were telling their school leavers how to lodge unemployment benefit forms and how to cope with the problems at the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. In an article in the  Bulletin  at the time she stated: 
To take that as a starting point of a working career is very dangerous. It is cultivating a dependency from the beginning. 
At least one Minister has now changed her mind. Last week she incorporated in  Hansard,  in a reply to a question from one of her colleagues, the text of a leaflet that has been made available to school leavers in Victoria on what they should do to obtain the unemployment benefit. She finally has realised that many of these school leavers are far more likely to be unemployed than they are to go on to further study and that many of them will have difficulty getting a job. Three years ago she castigated headmasters for offering the same help. Now she is supplying it herself but only in Victoria. I believe that this leaflet, deficient as I think it is, should be handed out in other States to all school leavers, particularly those in areas of high unemployment. To take up a point made by  Senator Ryan,  I believe that these pamphlets should be handed out in languages other than English. I believe that the pamphlet should be extended to point out to school leavers the traps in our unemployment benefit system. They should be told that single persons will forfeit their benefit if they are over 1 8 years and will not leave home. They should be told that if a job offer from the Commonwealth Employment Service is refused their benefit will be withdrawn. They should be told that a post office address is insufficient and they should be told of the very real difficulties they may have in establishing identity under the new rules. However, the Minister for Social Security at least joins other honourable senators in admitting that we have a problem and in that regard she is trying to do something about it. 
I need not go over the long and disgraceful history of the continuing campaign against the socalled dole bludgers in our community. I need not reiterate in detail the continuing and disgraceful treatment of school leavers who are being refused payment of the unemployment benefit for six weeks after they leave school. 

 Senator Ryan has mentioned this matter. We need mention only that it was first done illegally, as was demonstrated by Miss Karen Green in her case in the High Court of Australia. Later the practice was legalised by the passage of legislation. I merely point out that at a time when youth unemployment is at a record high and is increasing, and when jobs are becoming increasingly difficult to find, to deprive school leavers of this assistance while they are seeking work is, as stated in the wording of the matter of public importance, a discriminatory act. In fact, it is something which no government should do. 
Finally, I point out in regard to this matter that the Government's own inquiry, conducted by  Dr Myers,  recommended that such practices should cease and that school leavers should be paid the unemployment benefit when they leave school because not to do so is discriminatory. In more recent times an equally discriminatory campaign has been conducted by some members of the Government. They are indulging in the practice of castigating people who are attempting to assist the unemployed. Some of the unemployed people who are attempting to organise their own groups in order to achieve their rights and to inform their colleagues of their rights are being castigated as acting politically. They are being subject to attack by Government members, particularly in my State. In the recent Budget, quite apart from the breach of faith obvious in the Government's action of abandoning twiceyearly indexation, the relegation of unemployed people without dependents- largely the single unemployed- to second-class citizenship so that they receive no indexation of benefits, which is a grossly discriminatory act as  Senator Ryan  said, the Government continually indulged in other acts of discrimination against the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed. The work test in the last three years has been modified repeatedly in attempts to deal with the so-called miscreants who fill the dreams of Government members whenever they think of the unemployed. Unemployed people who the Government considers to be voluntary employed have been deprived of the unemployment benefit for six weeks. 
These actions also have been contrary to the findings of  Dr Myers  who said that those who leave work voluntarily should not be penalised during times of high unemployment and that registration for work with the Commonwealth Employment Service should be prima facie evidence of being eligible for the unemployment benefit during times of high unemployment, as exists now. The Attorney-General mentioned that the Government will solve its problems by looking at the findings of the Williams Committee. The Government already has the findings of the Myers Committee and the Norgard report, but it takes no notice of them. It chooses to ignore those findings and we see no reason to believe that in future the Government will take any notice of any future inquiries. 
The Attorney-General inevitably, as he should do, mentioned that the Government has taken actions, such as introducing the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the Commonwealth Youth Support Scheme and the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme, to attempt to do something about the youth unemployment problem. Despite these three schemes, youth unemployment rises inexorably. These schemes have not succeeded. In some cases, particularly with the Special Youth Employment Training Program, employers in fact have abused the scheme. They have not been obliged to create extra positions; they have not been required to retain the employees after the end of the period for which the training is subsidised. No sanctions have been imposed against employers who have sacked these trainees to gain others under the subsidy. The training period is very short and the jobs for which people have been trained have not been long term jobs. This scheme has been discredited and the Government has not made any attempts to overcome the difficulties that have arisen with the scheme. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  This is the first time in this debate that that rule has been applied. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Employment Service inform the Department of Social Security of persons registered for employment who refuse an offer of suitable work. 
Does the Department of Social Security keep records of the numbers of people involved. If so, how many persons have been so reported in each State since 1 January 1977. If not, why not. 
How many people have been paid unemployment benefit in each month since 1 January 1977 after they have failed the work test. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) To what percentage of the costs of home help services in Victoria did the Commonwealth 2:1 subsidy under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969 apply before 1 July 1978. 
What percentage of the costs of home help services in Victoria has been covered by the Commonwealth since 1 July 1978, when the 1: 1 subsidy was introduced. 
What guidelines operated in relation to the Victorian subsidy before I July 1978, and what guidelines have operated since. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the events of 3 April 1978, in which Commonwealth Police arrested some 175 citizens of Sydney who have since been charged with conspiracy to defraud the Commonwealth. Did any senior officers or officer of her Department accompany the Commonwealth Police on these raids? If so, who were they, or who was he, and what was the purpose of accompanying the Commonwealth Police? 
-The opposition does not oppose the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978. 1 have no desire to hold up the Senate. I wish to make only a few general remarks. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will note that my legal colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  is in the House tonight and he will wish to make some comments of a specific nature on one section of the Bill. I will confine myself to some general remarks. 
This Bill, like so many before it, has the general aim of increasing the powers of the Minister for Health to regulate the voluntary health funds in this country. It is with some amusement that whenever an amendment Bill of this type comes up I remember the days in 1974 and 1975 when, as a supporter of the then Government, I spoke on many occasions on amending legislation introduced to give the then Minister for Health the powers to control the voluntary health funds. This legislation was, of course, regularly opposed and defeated in this House by the then Opposition. In fact the gentleman who at the moment is making vast sums of money out of the serialisation in the newspapers of a very dull book used the repeated defeat of that legislation, among other legislation, as a reason for a double dissolution of the Parliament. Of course, after that double dissolution the new Government immediately passed the legislation. Of course the Government realised then as it realises now that the voluntary health funds in this country are controlled by and contain some of the slipperiest and shadiest characters in the business. As the Minister for Social Security pointed out in the second reading speech which she made on behalf of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  among the shadiest and slipperiest are the gentlemen from the Hospital Contributions Fund, who in order to avoid their responsibilities recently tried to exclude large numbers of disadvantaged members from receiving benefits. 
It has been an unfortunate fact that the voluntary health funds in this country have repeatedly, time and time again, tried to avoid their responsibility and tried to exclude various groups from receiving benefits at the same time as constructing large buildings, buying aeroplanes and other things. Governments of both persuasions have had to amend this legislation repeatedly to bring these funds under control, to make sure that they carry out their responsibilities to their contributors and to bring them into line with various government policies. 
I make the same prediction about this Bill as I made about the other health amendment Bills which have been introduced this year. This legislation will be back again next year for further amendment to enable the Minister yet again to curb the slippery and shady characters who will continue to manipulate the national health legislation of this country as much as they can to avoid their responsibility. We will be watching to make sure that the new powers given to the Minister will in fact be used by him when they should be used and not left on the shelf when they should be used, as they sometimes are because of the undoubted influence that some of these funds have over the coalition parties. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. We realise the necessity for it. Therefore I will not further delay the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
How many appeals in each category dealt with by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals in the March and June quarters 1978 corresponded to the headings provided in the Minister's answer to question No. 211 (Senate  Hansard,  1 June 1978, page 23 10). 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns the installation of a computer, type CN202, in the Melbourne office of her department. When was this computer installed? Who authorised its installation? What are the details of the hire, or purchase, or any other arrangements, of this computer? Was a certificate of expediency acquired to install the computer? Finally, what other departments have computers of a similar type? 
-On behalf of  Senator Button,  who has had to absent himself, and as it is the last day of the sitting for the year, I seek leave to present a petition which was not received in time to meet the requirements of Standing Orders 76, and to have the text of the petition incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The petition read as follows: 

Education Funding 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for 
. Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for' 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1 979. 
* Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for 
Government schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
-I am sorry to break into this jovial occasion with a somewhat more serious subject. It is something I have been trying to do for a couple of days now but have been unable to get the opportunity to do so. I well remember a former Liberal Party senator who regularly spoke on serious subjects in the adjournment debate on the last day of sitting and caused some controversy. 
He was not from the same State. Therfore I do not feel constrained not to raise this subject today. I feel that I must do so because the subject is an important one and I would like the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to make some inquiries in the forthcoming recess into what should be done to ensure that justice is seen to be done in this country. I am sure that justice is not at least being seen to be done in this matter I am going to talk about and I am certainly not at all sure that justice is in fact being done. The subject, as the Minister and others know, is the large number of people, mostly Australian citizens of Greek descent, who have been charged with conspiracy to defraud the Commonwealth through the social security system. 
The subject is a difficult one to talk about for several reasons. Firstly there are people before the courts and, therefore, their cases are sub judice. I do not want to touch on any of the details or make any judgment as to whether anybody is guilty or not guilty. Secondly, most of the cases concern people who are or have been ill and, therefore, involve medical reports. We in this country have a tradition of respect for the confidentiality of the relationship between a doctor and his patient and we believe that reports from the doctor about the patient should be privileged and confidential. As a result, it is difficult to discuss cases like this. Thirdly, the community concerned has suffered and is suffering as a result of the publicity given to these cases. I believe that this Parliament is the place where, allegedly, we are able to redress injustices of this type and that is what I will try to do. 
As I have said in the past, the facts are that at the beginning of April this year people were arrested, some of them doctors, some of them psychologists, most of them pensioners, allegedly for conspiring to defraud the Commonwealth. Initially and since then the treatment of these cases in the media has been unfortunate, and senators on both sides of this chamber have commented on this. There were dramatic headlines and dramatic reporting of the type which appeared on 3 April following the raids and when the cases came to court. We saw Inspector Don Thomas, who was leading the investigation, giving interviews in the Press, describing how proud he was of the investigation he had conducted and saying that in all some 1,000 people were involved, that there would be 1,000 future charges, that there would be 350 people, if possible, brought back from Greece and that, hopefully, all 1,000 people who were guilty would be charged. There were allegations that telephones were bugged and police tapes were handed to Greek interpreters. There were claims in several newspapers that up to $42m was involved. On the day of the court case there was extreme confusion in the court because of the lack of interpreters. The next day the newspapers ran photographs of the policeman in charge of the case, Chief Inspector Thomas, and the DirectorGeneral of Social Services,  Mr Lanigan,  leaving the court together and expressing satisfaction with the way the situation was progressing. 
The people in the Greek community, not unfairly, I believe, became very annoyed at the way in which their community apparently was being singled out by the Press in this unfair way. As I said, people on both sides of this chamber have talked about it. This has continued since. We had a disgraceful article in the  Bulletin  in July by a  Mr Peter  Samuel in which he not only took to the Greek community but to other communities. For example, he said: 
The $60m a year fraud by Greeks is said to have been only one of three major organised ripoffs detected by the Social Security Department. Turks and Lebanese have been involved in other major organised frauds, say departmental officials. 
Members of this Parliament, and I single out particularly  Mr McVeigh  in the other House, have frequently made remarks in speeches about Greeks ripping off the system. Comedians like  Mr Barry  Humphries have decided it is a suitable vehicle for cracking jokes at the National Press Club. So we have a community that is upset. 
As honourable senators know, I have been interested in the situation. I have an enormous file on the problem, and the Minister knows that I have had correspondence with her Department. We had a claim that over 1,000 people would be charged. In fact, less than 200 have been charged. We had a claim that 350 people were going to be brought back from Greece. In fact, of course, nobody has been brought back from Greece because the Greek Government would not agree to extradition. Only 135 people in total lost their pensions in Greece. We had claims that people who were being investigated would not lose their pensions until the investigations had been held. We know, and the Minister knows because she and her staff later had to deal with the problems, that people were losing their pensions. It was only at a later date that the Department corrected this situation and people got their benefits back. We know from Greek welfare workers and from cases that members of Parliament have had that some people went without support for some six to eight weeks, relying on friends for help. Some of this could be put down to the difficulties and the chaos that reigned at the time, to the inexperience of some departmental officers in dealing with problems of this type, because there were a lot of people involved. However, the result was confusion in the community and a heightening feeling that the community was being got at. 
If I could recapitulate to this stage, we have a situation where the Commonwealth Police have conducted an investigation and laid certain charges. The Department of Social Security has been closely involved and has been seen to be closely involved, although I am not implying that there was anything improper about the Department's action. People in the community who have been charged or who have lost their pensions and are appealing have had to go back to the Department, which they see as co-operating with the police. They feel that they have difficulty getting justice in a situation where they do not really understand our system of justice. Greek social workers involved with the Greek community in Sydney have written repeatedly since this has arisen to me, to other members of the Parliament and to the Minister expressing their concern. There have been repeated meetings expressing concern about their treatment, about the difficulty of appealing, and about the difficulty, particularly in Greece, in getting justice and appealing there. We have had two debates in this place, yet still I find, and I know that others find, that the complaints are flowing in just as they were before. The feeling that members of the community are not getting a fair go is as strong as it was before. For instance, I know that one Government member at least has had an unpublicised meeting with members of the Greek community because of his .concern over what is happening. 
In the course of investigating this matter certain things arose which disturbed me. The first was that on looking at the official records of interview between the Commonwealth Police and the people who were charged, one finds certain, absolutely rock solid evidence that police did in fact have the medical records of these people before they were arrested and charged. As I said, in this country we believe it to be important that a doctor's medical records of a patient are confidential, that they are held in a secure place, secure from other people, from third parties. Yet now we know absolutely that in fact the Commonwealth Police had these records before charges were laid. I think that raises all sorts of questions. It certainly makes it difficult for people, particularly those with psychiatric illnesses, to approach the Department if they believe that at some future time their medical records may not be secure and might be handed to a third person. 
The second matter is- and this does not involve the Minister for Social Security- that I have absolute evidence, in writing, that a member of my profession, the medical profession, forwarded a patient's medical report to the Department of Health without the permission of that patient and without the permission of that patient's general practitioner. As a doctor, I am horrified that such a thing could happen. I am most concerned that it happened, as are other people and they are taking action about this case. This, when added to the other things, makes it difficult for the people of the Greek community to have any sort of faith in the system. 
I have here evidence of another case- I will give the documentation to the Minister but as it contains medical records I would be reluctant to divulge it all on the records of the Senateconcerning a man whose invalid pension was withdrawn. This man had obtained his invalid pension on the evidence of two medical practitioners- one a clinical psychologist and the other a general practitioner- but his pension was withdrawn on the evidence of one other specialist. I shall call that specialist  Dr R.  When this man appealed against this decision, he was referred by the Department to  Dr R  for his appeal. In other words, when this man's pension was withdrawn he appealed against the decision and was sent on appeal to the same doctor who recommended the withdrawal. Incidentally, this doctor has been the source of many reports to the Department of Health and, I understand, to the Department of Social Security because of his attitude to members of the Greek community. 
Another thing that disturbs me is the treatment of people in Greece. We know that a fairly high proportion of people of Greek descent in receipt of invalid pensions went back to Greece. We know that after 1 April some 135 of these people in Greece lost their pensions. The Minister said, I believe in the course of debate in this place, that those people could go to the Australian Embassy in Greece where they would be examined and if their pension had been unfairly withdrawn it would be restored. She said that all this could be done within two weeks. I remember the Minister saying that by the next pay day, 14 April, these people would again be receiving their pensions. I believe that in the time since then 29 of those 135 people have had their pensions reinstated in Greece. The Minister also said that they would be able to appeal. But, since saying that, she has said that to appeal they will have to come back to Australia. The remarkable fact is that five of them have done so. They have saved or borrowed money- borrowed money in most cases. In one case the children have been left behind. In fact, they have come back to Australia to appeal, despite the political climate as they see it and despite some disgraceful articles in Athens newspapers. What disturbs me is that over 100 people who are still in Greece have lost their pensions. To appeal they will have to come to Australia. 
What adds to my concern is that recently I have seen the story of two people who have returned from Greece. One man had his pension stopped in Greece on the advice of the Commonwealth Police because of his connection with people involved in the case. He went to the Australian Embassy, where he was seen by a doctor. He was referred to two Greek specialists in Athens. There is no record of that in the report of the Department of Social Security. However, there is a report from a doctor in Athens saying that this person is no longer eligible for an invalid pension. But, on this man's return to Australia, it was found that he is very seriously ill. He is considered to be intractably ill. In fact, he has gone back to receiving his invalid pension. If this has happened- another case is similarone wonders how many of the other 105-odd people in Greece who are unable to appeal would win an appeal if examined by competent specialists; how many of those people, if they were not afraid of coming back to Australiathey have a fear because of the atmosphere surrounding this case- and came back to Australia in fact would have their pensions reinstated. I think that it is unfortunate that we cannot get a team to go to Greece to consider these appeals properly because these people, most of them in good faith, returned to Greece within the laws of this land. 
I believe that this whole situation should be properly investigated. I am aware of the difficulties. I am very much more aware that at present court cases are proceeding. But a senior police officer was reported in newspapers and on television repeatedly as saying: 'Over 1,000 people are involved and we are going to get them all. There are over 300 in Greece and we are going to get them back'. Nowhere near that many people have been charged. My understanding of the replies from the Minister is that not as many as that will be charged. I do not believe that senior police officers should make that sort of statement and then not be able to back it up. We know from reports in the newspapers that on the days of the so-called raids- I cannot think of a better word- when the Commonwealth Police went to people's homes and arrested them, one newspaper in particular was notified beforehand and went along. The newspaper knew that the raids were going to happen. The newspaper concerned was the Sydney  Sun.  It described now the operation was prepared and how they followed the police officers around in the raids. I believe that that is improper and not the sort of thing that should happen in this country. But it did happen. We have reports that the police were accompanied by observers, senior officers of her Department. I have asked the Minister a question on this and I know that I will get an answer eventually. I want to know who those officers were and why they were there. We know that the most senior officer in the Department, the Director-General of Social Security, was at the court on that chaotic first day of the case. He has been seen to be associated with the people who are doing the prosecuting. I am not suggesting that he was there other than perfectly innocently, but what happened has put into the minds of these people that he is associating with those who are doing the prosecuting. 
We know that soon afterwards- I will not go into the details- certain doctors in Sydney suddenly would not see or were reluctant to see people of Greek descent and that special arrangements had to be made with public hospitals to get doctors to care for people of Greek descent. We know that since this has happened 
Greek welfare officers in Sydney have had considerable difficulty in handling the problems that have arisen. We know that there are problems back in Greece. We know that those people who have come back from Greece have succeeded in their appeals. The person I have seen was seriously ill. Quite frankly, his illness should not have been missed and the decision to stop his pension in Greece should not have been made. I believe that this and other things that I have mentioned point to the fact that we need an investigation. The question is: What sort of investigation do we need? 
We need an investigation of the conduct of this whole case and the behaviour of people in the case. The question is: What sort of investigation do we need? I will try to answer the honourable senator's question. We cannot expect the Commonwealth Police to investigate themselves. We all know what happens in this country and in any other country when police forces investigate themselves. The Department and senior officers of the Department are seen by the people to be intimately associated with the police officers who are conducting the case. I suggest that they are not in a suitable situation to investigate this sort of case. After the recess and perhaps after the court case, because the court case does complicate the issue, we may get to the situation where the only appropriate body in this country to investigate this case is this chamber or one of its committees.  Senator Baume  looks horrified. Alternatively, I think that we have to have a judicial investigation. I think that people must look at those two alternatives because there is a problem. It is no good people saying that there is no problem and that these people are paranoid, cannot understand the system and have no case. From what I have seen of their community I believe that they have a case. 
I have seen documentary evidence about the behaviour of people who could be called my professional colleagues which disturbs me considerably. Some action is being taken in that respect, but we cannot ignore the court case that is going on, say that it is sub judice and push it to one side. We cannot ignore the fact that people feelrightly or wrongly; I believe in many cases rightly- that they are being put upon. We cannot allow the unfortunate and inherent xenophobia that exists in all other communities to exist in this community, as it does, whereby people of Greek descent are being discriminated against because of the publicity they have had in the Press. For example, because of this court case, people such as Barry Humphries think it is great fun to crack jokes at the National Press Club and other places about people of Greek descent. Peter Samuel has written outrageous articles without a scintilla of evidence and said that $42m was involved and that Greeks, Turks and everyone in Sydney were ripping off the system. Even senior journalists like Alan Reid have done the same sort of thing. In fact, members of this Parliament have made broad, sweeping allegations about the matter, whether or not they were made in the heat of the moment. 
I believe that we will need to conduct an investigation. Not only people in the Greek community are concerned  about the matter, but  also people in the medical profession in Sydney have approached me and expressed their concern. People in the social welfare community have approached me and expressed their concern. In fact, some of them are forming committees to see what they can do about the situation. People in the diplomatic community also are concerned about what is happening. I believe that a judicial inquiry or a parliamentary inquiry may be necessary. I will be receiving and correlating further evidence in the future. I know that other members of Parliament will be doing that also. I know that the Minister will be sympathetic in that situation. We have a very real problem in that people are reluctant to come forward with information to the Department which they see as being involved with the police in the case. It may be that the people involved will come forward with evidence finally only to some independent investigation in which they can have faith. 
I raise this matter in all good faith. I raise it because I believe that people in the Greek community in Australia and the whole ethnic community deserve better treatment than they have had. I attribute malice to no one. I think that we must investigate the matter and make sure that some people are not acting in a malicious way for their own gain, for their own preferment  or for  the purpose of promoting themselves in some way. I believe that we must assure the Greek community and members of all other ethnic communities that they have the protection of law and justice in this country like everybody else, that they have the protection of this Parliament like everybody else. I believe also that it is to the good of the whole community that if an injustice has been done or if it seems that an injustice has been done we take action and prevent either the reality of the injustice or the appearance of the injustice from worsening community relations in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Did the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations carry out a survey of Aboriginals registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service who receive unemployment benefits. If so, (a) when and where was this survey carried out; (b) how many people were surveyed, and in what areas; (c) what were the findings of the survey; and (d) is it intended to conduct more surveys of this kind. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Has a trial system of monthly interviews of unemployment beneficiaries been introduced at the Bondi Junction office of the Department of Social Security. 
Has this trial system been introduced elsewhere. If so, at what other offices. 
What is the purpose of the monthly interview. 
What evaluation of the effectiveness of these interviews is being carried out. 
5 ) What training are the interviewers receiving in dealing with the public. 
Will the extra forms to be completed by interviewees be used as evidence in prosecutions. 
Is the Department able to call on enough interpreters to interview beneficiaries at Bondi Junction. 
Does it have access to enough interpreters and trained officers to conduct monthly interviews State-wide. 
When will it be decided to introduce these interviews State-wide or drop the monthly interviews altogether. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November, 1978: 
How many appeals relating to all pensions and benefits during (a) 1976-77; (b) 1977-78; and (c) 1 July to 30 September 1978, were lodged against the determinations of officers of the Department of Social Security. 
How many of these appeals were: (a) approved by the departmental review officers; (b) referred to Social Security Appeals Tribunals; or (c) withdrawn by the appellants. 
How many of the appeals referred to the Social Security Appeals Tribunals were: (a) disallowed by the Appeals Tribunals; or (b) recommended by the Appeals Tribunals and referred for approval to a State Director. 
How many of the appeals recommended by the Appeals Tribunals were: (a) approved by the State Directors; or (b) referred to the Director-General for decision. 
How many of the appeals referred to the DirectorGeneral were: (a) approved by the Director-General; and (b) dismissed by the Director-General. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 November 1 978: 
1 ) Why were records of waiting time between application for and receipt of different classes of pensions and benefits kept in 1976 but not in 1978 (see answers to Question No. 145, Senate  Hansard,  6 April 1976, page 1087; and Question No. 58, Senate  Hansard,  25 May 1978, page 1918). 
Do any State offices of the Department keep these records. If so, which offices. 
Is it intended to keep such records in the future. 
My question, which is also directed to the Minister for Social Security, follows upon the question just asked by  Senator Baume.  The Minister has said that she remembers my making an allegation in this place towards the end of last year that some people charged in connection with the alleged frauds had claimed that they had been photographed by the police with the word 'Greece ' written on a placard underneath them. The Minister will remember, no doubt, that she said at the time that she had been advised that this was not so. The word 'Greek' was the word I used but the Minister now admits that they were photographed with the word 'Greece' written on a placard. I ask: When the Minister answered me at that time was she aware that these people had been photographed with the word 'Greece' written on a placard? If she was aware of this, why did she indulge in such matters of semantics in denying the fact that they had any name written on a placard underneath them? With regard to other allegations which I made at the time and which were also denied with equal vehemence by her, has she checked to see whether they were true, particularly those involving phone tapping, those involving the entering of premises without warrants and those involving the use of only Commonwealth Police interpreters instead of independent interpreters, which allegations I believe were also denied by her at the time on advice from her Department and the Commonwealth Police? 
-The Quarantine Amendment Bill 1978 increases considerably, but not in the view of the Opposition excessively, the penalties for offences under the Quarantine Act 1908. It is worth noting, I believe, that it is the first time that these penalties have been increased in some ten years and that these increases bring the penalties somewhere into line with the inflation rate that has occurred in that time. One may in passing I believe wonder why there has been such a delay. I am conscious that during those ten years there have been in office governments of different persuasions but it seems to me that in a parliament in which frequently there are complaints that there is too much legislation, an important piece of legislation like this should not have avoided attention for such a long time. Quarantine and quarantine provisions are of vital importance to this country. It is necessary that there be an appropriate level of penalties in our attempts to defeat those people who for financial gain, from a misplaced desire to resist authority or because of some foolish attachment to an animal, flout our quarantine laws. However, just as it is important to have stringent penalties the most stringent penalties alone will not necessarily reduce the incidence of these breaches of the Act. Some certainty of detection is also needed and the greater the likelihood of detection of people breaching the Act the more likelihood there is of preventing people from attempting to avoid our quarantine regulations. I believe that this aspect of our quarantine procedures deserves some attention because we rarely get the opportunity to debate this matter in the Parliament. 
We live, as I am sure we all know, in a very lucky country. We live in a very lucky country when we consider some of the world's great scourges and the manner in which we avoid them. Australia is almost free from some of the greatest menaces in the way of infectious diseases of both animal and man. Plague, cholera, malaria, lassa fever, typhus, rabies, foot and mouth disease, Newcastle disease and many others do not afflict or very rarely afflict anyone in this country. This is due certainly to our geographical isolation, to our high standards of public health and equally as certainly to the efficiency of our quarantine service and procedures. Many of the world's most devastating insects have not invaded this continent as yet but it is disturbing to note, although it is unavoidable, that in the last 20 or 30 years many insect pests and diseases which affect plants have arrived in this country and have not been and will not be eradicated despite any measures which we may attempt. In my own State of Tasmania the syrex wasp still inflicts damage on pine plantations and every year in Estimates Committee discussions the Minister representing the Minister for Health, I and others have an interesting discussion on the efforts to eliminate the oriental fruit fly. We have managed to confine that pest in this country at a cost of many thousands of dollars. The giant African snail has recently reached the country. We hope that it has been controlled. The spotted alfalfa aphid unfortunately is consuming large quantities of lucerne in this country. The oak leaf miner and many other insects have invaded us and are causing trouble. 
It is worth while noting that in the last 20 years the European wasp has spread to all sections of Tasmania following its introduction. The world record size for European wasp nests is now held not in Europe but in Tasmania because of the favourable breeding grounds. This wasp is inflicting damage in Tasmania much to the discomfort of some of the inhabitants and certainly to the great distress of many of the apiarists in our State. 
Australia has not always been as lucky as far as human diseases are concerned. Cholera and plague were once regular visitors to this country and smallpox intermittently affected people. But this combination of our geographical isolation and our stringent precautions has managed to protect us. However, our isolation no longer exists due to modern air travel, with the vast size of modern airliners, and the decreases in air fares with brings international air travel into the reach of more and more people. Our isolation will continue to decline. In recent years cholera has slipped in occasionally. Fortunately it has been quickly contained and it can be quickly contained in a country like this. Smallpox, because of a worldwide campaign, we hope, has been eliminated. In so doing I believe that mankind has achieved one of the greatest medical, social and political achievements because the war against smallpox involved the overcoming of considerable social, political, economic and medical difficulties. In removing what was one of the captains of kings of death on the earth, and one hopes that we have done so, quarantine procedures played an important part. 
I suppose that if any disease illustrates the importance of our quarantine procedures and at the same time demonstrates the fragility of our quarantine facilities and potential dangers to this country the one which should personally come home to us all is the disease of rabies, although one can use many examples such as foot and mouth disease or bluetongue. Rabies is a worldwide scourge. In fact, Australia and the British Isles, Japan, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, Ireland and possibly Denmark are about the only countries that are in fact free of this disease. It is spreading across Europe rapidly and experts readily predict that it will inevitably reach the British Isles. Once it is established in Britain or in Australia the chances of eradication are nil and the chances of control are very difficult in a country like this which has a large wild dog population, a large domestic dog population and many potential hosts for this disease. 
It is worthwhile mentioning that according to the records only three human beings who have actually developed the symptoms of rabies have survived. The disease does not affect a vast number of people but its prevention is unpleasant, its treatment is very difficult and its mortality rate horrifying. Although the methods of protection are improving the thought of this disease reaching our continent is a considerable worry and enough to give any health authority nightmares. Yet people in this country and people in the United Kingdom persist in trying to defeat the quarantine regulations in their attempts to bring in domestic pets which can be potential carriers of this disease. Misguided individuals still try to smuggle in foodstuffs. Many tons of foodstuffs and meat products are intercepted at our international ports every year. People, as a hobby or for gain, still smuggle in and attempt to smuggle in birds and birds' eggs, thus bringing in Newcastle disease. Honourable senators who are interested in this matter would know about the outbreak of Newcastle disease from this source last year. Seeds and plants are still smuggled in and health regulations are still ignored, quite often merely to save time at medical checks and customs checks at international airports. 
We have an enormous problem in trying to educate our citizens and visitors that we are serious about our quarantine measures. We have an enormous problem which could be assisted by bringing in stringent regulations and by bringing in methods and procedures of detection of breaches of the Quarantine Act which would make detection more likely. At the same time, we are now at the stage where more than 1,000 people can arrive at Sydney Airport or Melbourne Airport in one day, thus making a complete detection method impossible. So education becomes important and detection methods become . very important in trying to keep our country free of these diseases. 
We have further problems arising because of difficulties in our near north and difficulties in the Middle East- difficulties which might occur anywhere. The possibility of this country having to take large numbers of refugees increases the need to upgrade and to assist our quarantine services, both in the Department of Health and in the Bureau of Customs. Increased fishing activities and increased air travel create problems. I hope that the Government can proceed with the new quarantine station at Cocos Island so that we can avoid some of the animal diseases. I hope that we will continue to find it simple enough to increase and improve the number of laboratories and mainland quarantine facilities in Australia to avoid these very real problems which face us. Very little publicity is given inside or outside this Parliament to certain expenditure which is of vital importance and which too often we tend to ignore. Expenditure on quarantine services and disease prevention services is one such expenditure. I hope that in the future we can continue to upgrade these services; that it will not be another 10 years before the penalties provided in the Act are looked at and careful consideration is given to the satisfactory nature or otherwise of the penalties. The Opposition supports the legislation and has no desire to hold it up. 
I  present two petitions from 109 and 220 citizens of Australia respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That your petitioners request that officers of the Department of Social Security reveal all information that they have on a client to that client, whether it is contained in the files of the above-named Department or any unit responsible to the Department, for example the Rehabilitation Unit. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Social Services Act be amended accordingly. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and read. 
Human Rights in the USSR 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The restoration by the Government of twice yearly indexation for all pensions and benefits under the Social Security and Repatriation systems. 
This matter is of political, social and economic importance and it has, of course, considerable emotional overtones in the community. It involves the welfare of the most vulnerable of our citizens and, probably equally importantly, it also involves their ability to have any faith in this Parliament and in promises made both by parties and individuals in this Parliament. 
The Opposition has taken this very early opportunity to raise the question of the restoration of twice yearly indexation of pensions and benefits under our social security and repatriation systems because of the confusion that has arisen and the expectations that have occurred in the pensioner community as a result of widespread media publicity in the last two months following actions of certain Government supporters. There has also been an awareness in the community at large that a gross injustice has been done to those people in the community who depend on fixed incomes from the Government. I am aware that because of this publicity and because of the claims and counter-claims and the  interpretative sort of articles that have appeared in the Press, many people in the community are confused as to what the Government will do and what this Parliament will do. I believe and the Opposition believes it is important that this matter should be cleared up. 
The Opposition believes that the revocation of the twice yearly indexation of pensions and benefits in the Social Services Amendment Bill in October last year was a breach of a firm undertaking given by both Government parties. We believe it was unjust. We believe that the injustice is widely recognised as such in the community. Only a few feeble attempts were made to justify the action taken by the Government in the Budget. These attempts at justification have in fact been shown to be false in the few short months since they were made. The Government should reverse its decision, and it can do so without causing inflationary damage to the economy. It can do so without putting an excessive burden on the taxpayers of this community. The time has come for the Government to do the right thing- to change this Budget decision or, alternatively, to call on those of its supporters who are doing so to cease their pretence to the pensioners and beneficiaries in this community that they are capable of reversing the Government's decision by actions in this place. 
The Opposition has been consistent on this issue at all times. We opposed the change from twice yearly indexation to yearly indexation. We were in fact supported by one Government senator, by the Australian Democrats senators and by the independent senator. We were also supported at the time, in words at least, by other Government senators and by Government members in another place who expressed dismay at the move that the Government was taking but who felt that they could not support the retention of twice yearly indexation and hence abstained from voting. By doing so they effectively supported the proposal to remove twice yearly indexation. 
Since then pensioners and members of organisations representing the various beneficiaries in the community have pressured Government and Opposition members to correct the injustice. As we know, one Government supporter has announced that he will introduce a private member's Bill to restore the previous position. On Friday last at a large public meeting in Sydney he showed the Bill, or what he claimed was the Bill. He promised that he would introduce the Bill into this Parliament yesterday. He did not do so. Until a short time ago he had not done so today. Members of the executive of pensioner organisations have come to Canberra today as they did yesterday to support this gentleman and still he has not made any attempt to move his private member's Bill. This does not surprise anyone on this side of the House. He has been known to behave before in this sort of way. He promised to cross the floor to prevent the abolition of the funeral benefit and he did not. He promised to cross the floor to support an Opposition proposal to increase the subsidy for apple and pear growers in Tasmania and he did not. 
-I do not believe that I need to name him. He promised to stay away from the Parliament until the  Australian Trader  was restored to the Tasmanian run. It was not restored and he has been here ever since.  His  proposals, his propositions, are part of a stunt to provide publicity for himself and they should be recognised as such. If he is willing to present the private member's Bill, although I question this as a method of achieving the aim, the Opposition will support him. But he has not done so. We have grave doubts that he will do so but we are certain that he will continue to squeeze every bit of publicity out of this matter while he can. This is unfair to the pensioners of this country and to the beneficiaries of this country. It is obvious that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and, particularly, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  are not in favour of the reintroduction of twice yearly indexation and it is quite clear that sufficient Government supporters are not willing to support such a private member's Bill to enable it to be passed in both Houses. It is unfair and cruel to raise the hopes of the pensioners and the beneficiaries in this country. We do not deny the honourable member's right to introduce a private member's Bill and we do not deny his right to question the Government's decision. We will support him on this but we believe that it should be more than just the publicity stunt it seems to be. 
The Opposition believes that the twice yearly indexation of pensions and benefits is a reasonable and just concept for protecting pensioners and beneficiaries in this country from the effects of inflation. From 1972 to 1975 it was necessary to increase pensions at twice yearly intervals by much more than the increase in the consumer price index to raise them to the 25 per cent of average weekly earnings that we considered at that time to be a reasonable minimum figure for single pensions. In fact in that time pensions rose by 80.4 per cent while the CPI increased by 50 per cent and average weekly earnings increased by 64 per cent. As a result of the introduction of twice yearly indexation in the time the present Government has been in office, pensions have increased at about the same rate as the consumer price index and at a slightly greater rate than average weekly earnings. This will not continue if yearly indexation is persisted with and because of that procedure pensioners will lose each year a varying sum depending on the rate of inflation. 
Prior to the 1975 election campaign the then shadow Minister for Social Security,  Mr Chipp,  now  Senator Chipp,  promised, as he said with the full authority of both coalition parties, that pensions would be immediately and automatically indexed to the consumer price index. After considerable prompting by both the Opposition and  Mr Chipp,  then a back bencher in the Government, this proposal was partly legislated for at the end of 1976 by the introduction of twice yearly indexation. It was supported by the Opposition. It was pointed out that it was not quite what had been promised but that it was a reasonable proposal and a reasonable method of keeping pensioners up to date with inflation. This change was lauded to the heavens by the Minister for Social Security, by the Prime Minister, by  Senator Baume  and other luminaries in this House as the greatest change in social security provisions since Federation. Day after day we had long speeches of praise for the introduction of this change. 
Before the 1977 election the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  promised that this policy would continue, as did the Prime Minister and, taking their cue from the Minister for Social Security and from the Prime Minister, as did every government member and supporter who campaigned in that election, lt was a firm promise given to every pensioner and every beneficiary in this community. When suggestions were made by some Labor members- I was one of them- to the effect that if the Government continued with its plan of economic stringency it inevitably would have to do away with twice yearly indexation, we were accused of indulging in fear tactics. We were said to be telling lies. One remembers how vigorously the present honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  refuted any suggestion of mine to this effect in the last election campaign. 
The Liberal Party policy issued in 1975 stated that the Government would move towards the protection of benefits and pensions from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every six months according to movements in the consumer price index.  Mr Chipp  said that the coalition had made the promise before December 1975; that he had promised on television that under a Liberal government pensions would be adjusted twice a year and would be geared to cost of living movements, and that he had made this promise with the full authority of his Party. He said that pensioners were not going to be made a political football but it seems that again pensioners are to be made a political football. In a television advertisement on 5 December 1977, just before the election, the Minister for Social Security said: 
We have altered the legislation so that there is an automatic increase every six months and we accept that this is an increase in the social welfare bill. 
I have had lots of people say to me: 'You have given us dignity because you do not argue about our rises every six months.' 
At the time  Mr Fraser  said: 
We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
On 2 1 November 1975 he said also: 
The real value of pensions will be preserved. 
It was not the Opposition which was lying at that time by suggesting that this policy may not be maintained; it was not the Opposition which was knowingly deceiving the pensioners and electors of this community; it was the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Security and their colleagues in the Government parties. When in the last Budget the Government decided to break its promise, when the Government decided to destroy completely the faith of the pensioners in any promises that were made, when the Government decided to force the pensioners and those receiving benefits in this country to carry the burden of the economic policies of the Government quite out of proportion to their ability to do so, two reasons were given by the Government. The first reason was the reason most frequently given by the Prime Minister- that inflation was under control, that twice yearly indexation was unnecessary and that the rate of inflation would continue to come down. The second reason given was that it was an economic necessity for the welfare of the nation. Other members of the Government attempted to dredge up further reasons. One of the most novel was introduced into this chamber by  Senator Walters.  She explained to us that, because the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had changed from quarterly indexation adjustments for wages to six-monthly indexation adjustments it naturally followed that the Government should change from six-monthly to yearly adjustments for pensions. When questioned she did not go on with that argument for too much longer, realising that she was going to get herself into difficulties with some of the pensioners who were her constituents. 
The latest figures for increases in the consumer price index have effectively torpedoed the first argument that inflation is again under control. It is obvious that inflation will not reach the low figure claimed for it by the Government. It is obvious from world economic trends that we are likely to get an increase in the inflation rate. We are certainly not going to get a decrease in the inflation rate this year. But the argument was not valid in the first place. Pensioners should be compensated for inflation at whatever its level and they should be compensated twice yearly. This has become a bipartisan policy in this Parliament and it had been accepted generally in the community. 
The economic necessity argument does not hold water. The estimated savings this financial year from the changes is $27m and in a full year it is $60m. That is a pittance compared with the economic expenditure in other areas by this Government, such as the proposal to spend $300m on the new Parliament House, $40m on VIP jets and hundreds of millions of dollars on investment allowances to enable firms to take on machinery and shed labour. It is a feeble argument. It was not valid then and it is certainly not valid now.  Senator Walters'  argument that, under some principle that is not understood on this side of the Senate, the Government should somehow index pensions at twice the duration that the Arbitration Commission increases wages is beyond comprehension by anyone on this side of the chamber and I believe anyone on the Government side. These arguments were not accepted at the time of the last Budget. They were not accepted by the Opposition. They were not accepted by the Australian Democrats senators. They were not accepted by the independent senator. They were not accepted by the media. They were not accepted by any expert or commentator on the subject. They were not accepted by the Australian Council of Social Service. They were not accepted by any welfare organisation at all. By their own words the arguments were obviously not accepted by many supporters of the Government. The move was condemned roundly by the councils of social service and it was condemned in both the House of Representatives and the Senate by some Government members. 
Despite protests at the time, despite representations since and despite threats about the introduction of a private member's Bill, the Government does not recognise the injustice of its actions. It is up to this Parliament to attempt to correct the situation. 
The Government's misguided restrictions in some areas of government assistance has meant a long and heavy burden on many people in the community. Supplementary assistance for rent, payments for pensioners' children and payments to injured Commonwealth employees have not been increased for more than three years. Family allowances have not been increased since their introduction in the present form. Their value has depreciated. Families with children have been affected, as has been suggested many times in this Parliament. Services to disadvantaged people in the community have been affected through cuts in assistance to various welfare agencies and groups which assist these people. We are dealing today merely with the income support payments, merely with the payments which in most cases these people rely on completely for their existence. It affects a large number of recipients and it affects them in a particularly harmful way. We have a situation where we firmly believe that the Government's policy was wrong and remains so. We have a situation where most observers in the community believe that the Government's policy was wrong and is still wrong. We have a situation where its own supporters believe that the Government was wrong and is still wrong. We believe this situation should be reversed, which is the first reason that we bring up this motion. 
Secondly, we believe that if the Government does not reverse the situation, if the Government persists with its attitude, and through the weight of numbers in this place we cannot change the situation, then those Government members who maintain the pretence that they can alter this situation should demonstrate to the pensioners of this country that they are not raising their hopes quite falsely by introducing a Bill and putting it to the test of this Parliament. 
-It is a deception, as  Senator Wriedt  has said. If such a Bill comes forward we will look at it and support it. We will seek to amend it to improve it if that is necessary. This is an important matter. It is too important to be kicked around in the media of this country. It is too important to be used for personal publicity by individual politicians. It is too important to be raised in the manner in which it has been raised in the last two months. It is too important to deceive the people who are being deceived. The Government must make its position clear. The members of the Government who claim that they have the influence to change the Government's view or the Parliament's view should either take the action that they claim will succeed or stop behaving in the manner in which they are behaving. Then and only then will the pensioners know where they are, will the Parliament know where it is and will some justice be done and be seen to be done for these people in the community. 
I second the motion. I must say that I do so without expressing any support for it, but I believe that it is important to keep this topic on the Notice Paper. I have a few surprising words for  Senator Mason.  He mentioned during his speech that there are a few people in this world who believe that planning is a dirty word. He said in his speech that there are a few people in this world who believe that free market forces should be left to control the problems of marketing in general in the world and even social problems. I have news for  Senator Mason.  On the other side of this chamber there are many people who are devotees of Adam Smith, who have not read anything since they read the work of Adam Smith, who are devotees of Milton Friedman, who believe that planning is a very dirty word, who believe that the only motivation worthwhile in this world is the motivation of profit, and who are devotees of Lang Hancock, who believes that all we should do is rip into the mines of this country and flog the products overseas for the benefit of those who happen to have the right to make profits out of them. We have in this chamber people who started the dole bludger campaign in this country and who consider that all the unemployed are worth looking down on. Therefore it is worthwhile keeping this motion on the Notice Paper. 
It is worthwhile keeping it there so that we can have a debate in which all the gentlemen on the other side can demonstrate that they are not democrats, that they are in fact totalitarian. When I agreed to second the motion and keep it on the Notice Paper I expected that there would be the usual cries from the other side of the chamber. Of course, the leader of those cries is always  Senator Lajovic.  Just to give those people on the other side who have these views the benefit of giving us their wisdom, I seconded the motion. I did so for that reason only. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Knight)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the unfortunate situation which arose when the Minister was misled by a brief from the Commonwealth Police concerning the word 'Greek' or Greece' appearing on a placard when citizens were being photographed. On checking the record, I find that I first raised this allegation on 3 May last year. I ask the Minister: When did she receive the second brief which corrected the first misleading one? Did she receive the second brief as a result of inquiries or merely as a result of routine procedure in relation to this matter? 
I rise to raise a matter which I believe should receive some explanation in this House before it adjourns tonight as we will not be resuming until next week. As is known to everybody in this place and everybody in the Parliament, there have been rumours all evening that a Cabinet Minister has resigned. The news was on television, it was broadcast over the radio repeatedly tonight, and a few minutes ago an announcement was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he had the resignation of the Minister for Finance,  Mr Robinson,  and that  Mr Howard  is the Acting Minister for Finance. No reasons or explanations are given for this extraordinary state of affairs. We hear a lot - 
-We hear a lot in this chamber and we hear a lot from  Senator Rae.  We heard a lot from  Senator Rae,  at the time he mentioned, about the Westminster tradition, about the responsibility of the Executive to report to the Parliament- both Houses of the Parliament, I might add, as  Senator Rae  frequently reminds us- about the necessity, in order that parliamentary democracy may survive, for us to get such reports, and about the Executive being responsible to both chambers of this Parliament. We should not go home this weekend without being told, in this chamber and in the other place, what has happened, and why a Minister with a portfolio such as that held by  Mr Robinson  has resigned. We should receive an explanation in this Parliament rather than through the newspapers or through rumour. We should not go home until we have done so. There are many reasons why a Minister may resign. He may be ill, he may be dissatisfied with the Government of which he is a member, or he may have been caught doing something that a Minister should not do. We in this place should be told what has happened. We should not have a repetition of what happened in another place where the Prime Minister entered and said: 'I have the Minister's resignation. I have appointed  Mr Howard  the Acting Finance Minister and you can all go home and mind your own business '. 
As  Senator McLaren  said, there were repeated divisions and repeated calls for explanations, but nothing was given. It is not as though  Mr Robinson  is a stranger to this sort of controversy in this place. I believe that this makes it even more important that we should receive an explanation. As a result of a previous controversy in which  Mr Robinson  was involved,  Senator Withers  is no longer sitting opposite as Leader of the Government in the Senate but he has remained here. He has been sitting completely silent for six months next to  Senator Townley  on the back benches. As we all remember,  Mr Robinson  was accused by one of his colleagues in the House of Representatives of attempting to fiddle the electoral boundaries in Queensland. As a result of that he was suspended from his job, or he resigned from his job, while a commission of inquiry was held. That commission found that he had not done anything wrong as a Minister on that occasion. So  Mr Robinson  has been the centre of controversy before. 

 Mr Robinson is also known for some of his famous statements, such as his statement that unemployment in this country is a myth, which he made only 12 months ago.  Mr Robinson  is the representative of the Prime Minister on a committee which is trying to sort out the air routes in Queensland. He has negotiated on behalf of the Prime Minister with that fine, upstanding citizen,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. Has this got something to do with the resignation of  Mr Robinson?  Whatever has happened, a man in a crucial position in the Cabinet, a man who was recently given extra powers over expenditure in this country so that he can authorise expenditure without going to the Cabinet for approval, has quite suddenly and quite strangely resigned. The first news we heard about it was from the Press. The second news we heard about it was a statement by the Prime Minister without an explanation. This should not happen. 
Of course,  Mr Robinson  is not the first Minister to resign.  Mr Garland  resigned and then was reinstated.  Senator Sheil  was sacked before he could be sworn in as a Minister. The former Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  resigned on a point of principle and then came back to the ministry again.  Senator Withers  was the Leader of the Government in this place and he resigned. As I have pointed out,  Mr Robinson  has stood down in the past. All that I am saying, and I repeat it, is that we should not leave this place tonight without receiving an explanation of what has happened. 
-It has nothing to do with fishing. So many times in the past we have been told by  Senator Baume  and his colleagues, by the fine, upstanding gentlemen opposite, that we should be told by the Executive what is going on. Therefore, I move the following amendment to the motion that the Senate do now adjourn: 
After the word 'adjourn', add the words 'after receiving a report on the retirement of the Minister for Finance '. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)- Senator Grimes,  I understand that you cannot move an amendment to the motion that the Senate do now adjourn. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the  Bulletin,  dated 6 March, by Peter Samuel entitled 'The Huge and Costly Dole Estimate Foul-up'? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Samuel  claims that the Head of the Department of Social Security,  Mr Pat  Lanigan, has announced 'that application of the "works test" has become almost impossible', that a sample survey carried out over a year ago by her Department has confirmed that an enormous amount of dole cheating has been going on and that this was used to increase the staff of her Department? Is the statement attributed to  Mr Lanigan  correct? Was such a survey made? Could she have the results of such a survey made available to members of Parliament so that they may judge the situation for themselves? 

 -Mr Deputy President- 

I realise that those honourable senators opposite who interject have no concern about the problem that we are debating; but that is their business. They continue to joke about the problem of unemployment.  Senator Harradine,  in putting down his motion of urgency this afternoon, worded it deliberately, as he said, in a non-provocative and nonattacking manner. The subject matter of the motion reads: 
The post-Depression record levels of unemployment and the failure to face the social as well as economic aspects of the problem. 
The honourable senator called for an unemotional debate on the subject and asked the Senate to take a calm and serious look at what is a very real problem. It is a pity that the first  speaker  to respond on behalf of the Government took the motion to be an attack and replied by merely defending the Government's record and reciting some of the things that the Government claims to have done for the unemployed in the three years that it has been in power. As  Senator Harradine  has said, we are facing a very serious problem. It is one, I might add, which members on this side of the chamber have been talking about for three years and which until relatively recently- in the course of a major speech by the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street-  the Government did not recognise as such. Until then we had Ministers denying that unemployment existed at all in this country. 
-The term used by the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson was that unemployment was a myth. That was said some 12 months ago. So my statement was hardly nonsense.  Senator Harradine  pointed out that we should look at the question in an unemotional manner. At times that is difficult. It is difficult when many of us have teenage children who are about to leave school. It is difficult when many of us have so many young school leavers and the middle-aged people who have been put out of work by the sort of technological changes that  Senator Harradine  talks about seeing us in our constituency offices and seeking work or help with their problems. It is also difficult to treat it in an unemotional manner when it is treated, in the media of this country and by members of various political parties, in a very emotional way. It is appropriate that this debate should be held on a day when an article has appeared in the  Bulletin  over the by-line of one  Mr Peter  Samuel. The article represents a continuation of the attack that we have seen, over the last four or five years on the unemployed of this country. I shall come back to that article, but it is full of statements which have no backing or evidence to support them in any way. 
Whatever we say about unemployment and whatever statistics we throw around, it is cleardespite the statements of  Senator Durack  and the claim of many on the Government side and in the community that unemployment is not as bad as it may seem to be- that all of the figures that we have seen over the last few years, no matter how quantitatively accurate, go in the same direction. They have continued to go in the same direction for the last  3Vi  to 4 years. Inexorably the rate of unemployment in this country has increased. The number of people receiving unemployment benefit has increased at about the same rate as has the number of unemployed, whether that number be measured by the Australian Bureau of Statistics or the Commonwealth Employment Service. I repeat, the percentage of people receiving unemployment benefit has remained at about the same level over the same period, and the number of unfilled vacancies has increased. A figure that has increased even more seriously is that for the duration of the period for which people receive unemployment benefit. This has risen until now it is on the average some 23.2 weeks. 
Therefore, the problem has increasingly become more serious. I am glad that members on the Government side agree with us on that. There are real social, economic and technological problems involved in unemployment.  Senator Harradine  touched on them and in the very short time that I have available to me I shall touch on one or two of them also. Like most people in this Parliament, I am not a Luddite. I do not believe, nor should any member of this Parliament, that we can turn our backs on technological change, but we are as  Senator Harradine  has said, confronted with a very real problem in the nature and rate of technological change as it affects the employment situation of this country. Technological change, which started in the industrial revolution, seemed to be the answer to many of man's problems. At the time it was. It replaced man's labour; it replaced his misery; it made his work life more tolerable; it increased productivity; and it was responsible for many of the improvements which have taken place in our civilisation over the last couple of hundred years. As we know, the people who were then displaced by technological change went into communications, into the service areas and into the clerical areas. As has been pointed out by many people, the problem that now arises is that it is in these areas that the technological changes are eroding employment prospects. Where do these people go who are being displaced from communications, from service industries and from clerical industries? They have nowhere to go at the moment and as a community we have not done anything to assist them. In fact I suggest that the Government has accelerated this change and this tendency to move people out of these areas by the introduction of technological change and by allowing some $500m each year on investment allowances. This has resulted in an increased use of technology and the displacement of men and women in the work force. 
This problem is serious and it is getting more serious. It is not just confined to the areas of word processors as  Senator Harradine  mentioned. It goes through all the tertiary sectors in our community. It is very nice that  Senator Durack  can get up and say that we have committees looking at that situation, at technological change in government departments, and at the need to educate people in the community to enable them to cope with this technological change. What we also need to do is to look carefully at how much of this technological change is occurring just for the sake of change and at how much we can arrest or slow down the change while the community prepares itself which it has not done in the past. If we do not do this we will get to a situation in many areas of our country, such as we have in the western suburbs of Sydney, where some 50 per cent of our youth is unemployed. These are children from unemployed families where unemployment is becoming a way of life for several generations who live in the same street, the same house and the same suburb. People will tolerate unemployment and being disadvantaged only if they can see a hope at the end, if they can see a reason for their unemployment and if they can see a light at the end of the tunnel. The Prime Minister says that we must all suffer and that life must not be easy so that we can get out of this situation. If people can see no hope then we will get real social problems. We then get a situation in the community where people want to start pulling things down. They want to replace the society in which they live with another society and they are frequently not sure with what they will replace it. We need more than just committees. We need more than shortterm panaceas. I suggest we need more than attempts- like the one suggested by  Senator Harradine-  to take 9 per cent or so of the married women out of the work force. 
In other countries such as the United Kingdom, Denmark and Belgium, schemes of voluntary early retirement have been tried and are being tried at the moment in an endeavour to overcome the very difficult problem we have of structural unemployment. They have not succeeded because they have been introduced too late. We are not the only country that is looking at this problem too late. Such schemes have been  introducedatastagewhenpeopleinthecom-  munity have not been able to prepare themselves for the possibility of early retirement. If we introduce voluntary early retirement- I believe we should- we must introduce with it an opportunity for members of the community to educate themselves in order to cope with that situation and to cope with the problem which, five or ten years ago they thought they would not have to face. 
I agree with the mover of the motion that we must look at this problem in an unemotional manner and as a united society if we can. We must stop denigrating the unemployed and condemning them for the state that they are in, implying that they are cheats and that the reason for their state is their own fault. That brings me finally to an article today by  Mr Peter  Samuel which is called 'The huge and costly dole estimate foul-up'.  Mr Samuel  makes several assertions in his article which I believe should be exposed as assertions only, and at times should be corrected. For instance he states: 
On recent trends it will not be long before those on the dole exceed the Bureau of Statistics estimates of the unemployed . . . 
The implication is that the number on unemployment benefits is increasing and, if the rest of the article is read, it will show that the number is increasing because people are cheating. I point out for the benefit of members of this chamber that since 1976 the percentage of registered unemployed getting unemployment benefits, in fact, has averaged about 70 per cent. There is no trend to suggest that it is getting any higher, let alone that it will overtake the number of unemployed. The figure for November 1978 was 69.9 per cent; for December 1978, 68.9 per cent; and for January 1979, 69.2 per cent.  Mr Samuel  further states: 
Dole-cheating has become quite an industry in its own, with estimates of its extent ranging between50,000 and 150,000 of the 340,000 on the dole. 
He produces no evidence to support this statement. In the 15 months between January 1976 and March 1977 there were only 123 prosecutions for fraud for unemployment benefits and 16 of these failed. My time has run out. I am sorry that I cannot complete my criticisms and corrections of  Mr Samuel's  article. I will do so at a later date and I thank the Senate for this short opportunity to speak.  (Quorum formed). 
-The Opposition questions the timing of the statement, the content of the statement and the need for the inquiry which has been announced. The timing of the statement we find quite interesting. In today's  Australian Financial Review  is a report of an interview by a representative of that paper with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In that interview the Prime Minister was asked whether he was satisfied with the administration of the unemployment benefit.  His  reply was: 
I have no reason not to be satisfied. It is a highly complex area and improvements have been made. 
Over the weekend we had the news that the very department of the Minister who originally made this statement, the Minister for Employment and 
Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  is predicting in its forward estimates an increase in unemployment in this country in the next year to 600,000 people. In making this prediction, it is requesting further staff. The Prime Minister says that he is satisfied with the administration of the unemployment benefit; the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs is predicting a rapid increase in unemployment in the next year; yet we have this strange statement questioning the work test and the administration of the work test. 
The statement is strange in several ways. It announces an inquiry which will question the desirability of people being allowed to seek work of a nature in which they usually engage, which is the present situation, and whether the counselling and the adjustment period that these people can take advantage of at the moment should be made shorter. It goes on to question whether the only criterion by which people should be judged as to whether they should accept work of the nature they usually undertake is their mental and physical health. One doubts very much whether the assessment of their mental health is a very objective form of measurement, no matter what claims are made for modern psychiatry and psychology. Some of us involved more intimately in the medical profession may even question how objective the measurement of their physical health may be under these circumstances. One assumes that the Government is looking at putting all applicants for unemployment benefit through psychological and medical tests. The statement goes on to say that this inquiry will look into whether people should have to travel outside their home area to get work. I point out in passing that at present single people over the age of 1 8 years may well be required to travel outside their own area to seek work. Does the statement mean that the Government is now looking at forcing married people to travel out of their own area to seek work? It is also suggested that this inquiry, made up of working parties of officers from the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Employment Service, will look at the general administration of the unemployment benefit and the allocation of responsibilities between these two bodies when dealing with the work test, the test applied to determine whether people qualify for unemployment benefit and whether they are making themselves available for full time work. 
All of these things are to be looked into in a fortnight. The Government is expecting a report in two weeks. We do not believe that it is possible for a working party to report on such a wide area in two weeks. The Government already has available to it reports which it commissioned itself on this very subject. One wonders why we have to have another report on these subjects, when in October 1976 the Government established the Norgard committee to look into the objectives and functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service, including its role vis-a-vis the unemployment benefit. The Norgard committee reported in June 1977. Early in 1977 a draft report indicated to the Government that the Norgard committee would not make any tough recommendations about the unemployed and what should happen to the Commonwealth Employment Service. So on 30 March 1977 the Government set up yet another inquiry under  Dr Myers,  and this inquiry reported very quickly, in July 1977. The Myers committee was set up to look at unemployment benefits with a view to ascertaining, amongst other things, what limits if any should be placed on the levels and duration of unemployment before people received unemployment benefits, and the effect of income support measures on the incentive of unemployed persons actively to seek employment. 
Both of these reports have come down, both of them have been looked at by the Government and debated in this Parliament, but the Government has implemented neither of them. Several recommendations made in the Norgard report were supported by  Dr Myers.  Both reports asserted that the creation of job opportunities should have the highest priority when the Government is looking at the unemployed. Both reports stated that the removal of the responsibility for continual work testing and income support services from the Commonwealth Employment Service was desirable, and recommended that responsibility for income support services should be assumed by the Department of Social Security. Both recommended that the Commonwealth Employment Service should concentrate on the placement of job seekers. Both stated that the Department of Social Security needed more decentralised offices and more staff posted in outlying areas to carry out face-to-face interviews and counselling with the unemployed. The Opposition and many other people in the community supported these recommendations, but the Government has pigeonholed them and done nothing about them.  Dr Myers  in particular had things to say about the work test and about unemployment in general. He said: 
. the provision of unemployment benefit is a poor substitute for full or nearly full unemployment. 
He recommended that registration with the CES should be regarded as prima facie evidence of the willingness to work. He went on to say: 
The inquiry has doubts about the desirability of the work test. If it succeeds in its objective of encouraging the reluctant worker into the work force, unless an additional job is created, the consequence is that another worker is displaced from the work force and becomes eligible for benefit . . . unless the community is willing to allow one of its members to receive no income whatever, the value of a general application of the work test must be in doubt. 
He further said: 
Further tightening (of the work test) is not really practicable in the absence of vacancies against which to test people. 
He recommended a more lenient approach than the Government's approach on voluntary unemployment. He recommended that a six weeks penalty should not be imposed unless the circumstances have been carefully investigated, and he wanted school leavers paid immediately and ' treated in the same manner as other new entrants to the work force '. 
The Government appointed its own nominees to conduct these two inquiries and wrote its own terms of reference; but apart from giving the Commonwealth Employment Service marginally more staff, and appointing more field officers in the Department of Social Security to police unemployment benefits, not to act as counsellors, and apart from causing hardship by introducing payment of benefits in arrears, without eliminating the seven-day waiting period, it has buried both of these reports. This time the Government is not risking getting the wrong answers. This time the review will be internal. Departmental officers will not be allowed to come up with any glimmerings of compassion when they are dealing with the unemployed, only with punitive measures. The Opposition submits that the Government does not need any more information or any more reviews. It needs to take note of the reports and reviews it has already and it has to take note of reports prepared by honest departmental officers. One example is the officer who recently prepared the speech given by the Director-General of Social Services,  Mr Lanigan,  yesterday. A few short sentences were removed from this speech. They were: 
Administration of this latter provision - 
That is, the work testing provision-   . . is difficult at iiic best of times, and rational administration can be impossible when willingness to work cannot be tested by offering a job. 
Its moralism is inconsistent with the rest of the system - 
That is, the social security system-   . . although apparently strongly approved by the electorate and appears gratuitous in times of high employment when the allegedly work-shy could not get jobs anyway, and when in some respects it may be better for the available jobs to go to people who want them than people who do not. 
This was an honest and innocent statement. It was removed from the speech delivered by the Director-General of Social Services although it was contained in the original speech forwarded to the organisation he was addressing. One can bet quite safely that the officer who wrote that statement will not be on the work force that has been established to review the application of the work test. Those paragraphs were deleted because they were contrary to the Government's line and contrary to the conservative approach which the Government has taken to this problem all along. 
Since the Government was elected in 1975 it has made continual alterations to the work test and the conditions which apply to those receiving unemployment benefit. The first statement issued by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and her colleague in another place,  Mr Street,  was entitled 'Moves to defeat dole cheats'. It talked about dole cheats and dole bludgers. Since then the Government has, amongst other things, refused benefit to claimants who failed the work test on the grounds of their appearance or their demeanour in the office; obliged single persons over 1 8 years of age to move from home if work is available elsewhere; deprived school leavers of unemployment benefit for six weeks after completion of their studies; tightened the restrictions whereby skilled persons were forced to accept unskilled work; required income statements to be delivered personally to the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service; required persons voluntarily leaving their jobs to wait six weeks before becoming eligible for benefit; changed the identification procedures so that no longer could identification be established by bank book or driving licence- the recipients must supply a birth certificate more than five years old, an insurance policy, a rates notice or other suitable documents; required that the failure of the CES work test would result in the cancellation of benefit whatever the family or personal situation- in other words, the work test applied by the CES applied to the Department of Social Security no matter what other conditions applied; refused to accept post office addresses and terminated benefit if such an address was given despite the fact that many rural people travel from town to town; and refused payment of unemployment benefit to persons laid off during the Christmas-January shut-down in industries such as the motor vehicle industry even when they had no holiday pay. It is worth while noting that according to the figures the DirectorGeneral and the State Directors are knocking back six times the number of recommendations from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal in favour of claimants that they were a year ago. 
The Opposition submits that a working party such as that referred to in the statement is unnecessary; that it cannot gather the facts and report in two weeks; and that there are ample reports to go on which should have been acted on in the last three years, particularly those of  Mr Norgard  and  Dr Myers.  We believe that this is just another attempt by the Government to cover up the facts, as stated by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, that unemployment will increase rapidly in the next year to anything up to 600,000. We believe that what is needed is to find jobs for those people, not to tighten the work test to prevent those out of work from getting unemployment benefit. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate, but I take this opportunity to speak briefly and fairly generally in the rather unusual circumstance of having a debate in this Parliament on foreign affairs. The fact that we are debating a statement put down by the Minister for Foreign Affairs (  Mr Peacock)  is something for which I suppose we should be grateful. I believe the fact that we rarely do so and the fact that even the media in this country rarely discuss foreign affairs, except on spectacular occasions of war and revolution, is regrettable. 
As a result of the lack of interest in the Parliament and in the media, the fact that in the past we have felt secure in view of our geographic isolation and that we considered ourselves under the protective umbrella of the United Kingdom or the United States, Australia has had little interest in or knowledge of world affairs. This situation has not been helped really by the sort of attitude and debate that we have heard sometimes in this chamber. I do not intend to attempt to compare the various analyses of the historical situation which has led us to the present position. At the moment I do not care to go into the details of the rights and wrongs of the situation in Vietnam as  Senator Georges  has done tonight. 
However, I do wish to express some regret at the attitude of  Senator Lajovic. His  remarks were reminiscent of the son of debates we had in this country in the mid-1950s and the mid-1960s. There was the use of loose terminology. There was the naming of everybody who opposed his point of view. The words 'communist' and socialist' were used in an interchangeable way. There was the son of cold war attitude which led him to condemn those who took part in marches and demonstrations against Australia's involvement in Vietnam. He demanded that those people who took part in those demonstrations should take part today in demonstrations against every war that occurs in other parts of the world. That sort of illogical debating technique does nothing to improve the knowledge of foreign affairs. It does nothing to improve our attitude to the rest of the people in the world. It does nothing to improve the understanding of the ordinary person in this country. 
As a result of this ignorance the media and the people of this country expressed shock at the apparent suddenness of the events in Iran, at the apparent suddenness of the VietnameseKampuchean situation and the apparent suddenness of the Chinese- Vietnamese conflict. This shock leads to a disturbed state of mind when contemplating a conflict between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China. 
As  Senator Lajovic  said, it is true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  echoing the Minister for Foreign Affairs- anticipated by a couple of days the Chinese attack on Vietnam. It demonstrates that part of our security force in this country had at least some few days or even some few weeks foreknowledge of what was to happen. As  Senator Georges  has said, seven months ago he was in Vietnam. Many of us remember that upon his return from Vietnam he expressed a very real concern at the dangers of a conflict between China and Vietnam. At that time it was being commonly spoken about in Vietnam and in other parts of the world. 
Last November I was in Vancouver at the Congress of the Socialist International where the possibility of conflict between China and Vietnam and between the USSR and China was commonly brought up in speeches, around dining tables and in conversation outside the congress. What impressed me at that time, as I expressed when I returned here, publicly and in the Press, was the very different attitude and approach to world affairs taken by those leaders and representatives of foreign governments compared with the complacent attitude that we had in this country, an attitude we had because we had no knowledge to the contrary from the media or the Government in this country. It has now become obvious to us that we are in a perilous position in world history.  Major conflicts  exist in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In fact the potential is there for a third world war. In his opening address to the Socialist International Congress, Willy Brandt, the  President  of Socialist International and a former Chancellor of West Germany and Mayor of West Berlin, who is a socialist, I remind those opposite, and who has suffered at the hands of those who misuse the term 'national socialists' of Germany, for example, and of the communists in East Berlin who call themselves socialists, said: 
We know the saying: War is the Father of Everything. Today, the consequences of a great war are almost beyond imagination. Therefore only peace can be the father of everything. 
Unless we- and others who bear political responsibilitysucceed in helping to make peace wherever war is still being waged, and in securing peace wherever new conflicts threaten, we shall never achieve what democratic socialists have so long been striving for. 
I would suggest that this is what all of us have so long been striving for:   a world in which freedom, justice and solidarity are part of every man's everyday life. 
Overcoming the differences between what we call, in a simplified manner, North and South has become another dimension to peace policy. It includes our obligations to our fellow men and, at the same time, a well-understood self-interest. 
When we hear such words from a leading statesman we must remember that we should develop, in the words of  Senator Wheeldon  when he was speaking on the subject, a distinct foreign policy of our own, a foreign policy that we can declare to the world and in which we can act in solidarity with others in the world to achieve this peace and freedom about which Herr Brandt talks. 
Today probably more than half the population of the world is suffering from famine and malnutrition. The economic imbalance between the rich and the poor, or the north and the south as the economic jargon would have it now, is getting worse and we seem powerless to do anything about it. The beggar-thy-neighbour type of protectionism is increasing, thus making more likely the potential of trade wars which so often in the past have been the precursors of military wars. The developed countries, with three exceptions, cannot reach the targets of foreign aid which they set for themselves to assist the nations of the less developed world to increase their standard of living and the freedom which should be available to them. 
Admittedly, all is not necessarily gloomy. The statement put down by the Foreign Minister does not mention those countries in the world where things are not so gloomy. In recent years Spain has passed from being an oppressive feudal state to being a democracy, however fragile that democracy may be. Portugal has similarly overthrown a dictatorship. In the Dominican Republic a democratic socialist government under Pena Gomez has been elected. Certainly external pressure and moral exhortation was needed from countries outside the area to make sure that that election was completed, but it was completed and we have a democracy there. George Fernandez, who is the leader of a sister party to the party that sits on this side of the House, has been released from gaol in India as part of the return to democracy in that country. All is not gloomy everywhere, but so often in the world things are gloomy. 
In this situation I believe it is unfortunate that so many members of this Parliament still see the proper basis of our foreign relationships as being whether the country we are considering is communist or pro-communist rather than whether it observes human rights and basic human freedoms. This leads to our being in favour of governments such as that of the Shah of Iran, even that in Haiti or that of Franco in Spain. It leads to our approving of dictatorships of the Right and disapproving of dictatorships of the Left. This sort of hangup from the days of Dulles, of course, is still with us. We still judge our friends internationally by what we perceive as being their economic usefulness to us. This perception, I believe, has led us to the excessively pro-Chinese stance that  Senator Georges  spoke about and to the claim that we should not be critical of the abuse of human rights or human freedoms in countries such as South Korea or Indonesia for fear of upsetting trade with those countries. 
We are a relatively small country in world affairs, but we can and should have a firm and independent view on foreign affairs. We should make our voice heard in world affairs and establish our credentials as a pro-democratic country in favour of human rights, human freedom and the right of people to selfdetermination. We should express disapproval of countries which abuse human rights and freedoms and we should express disapproval of those who interfere with the right to selfdetermination for others or intervene in the affairs of others directly. We are not often in a position to make great gestures. We can do all this without futile gestures. We can do it by maintaining relationships with some countries, but we must and should do it to preserve our national self-respect and our credentials in world affairs. For instance, we should disapprove of torture in the world, wherever it is practised, because torture is torture. There is no distinction between torture practised by left wingers or by right wingers, by Christians or by Moslems. There is no distinction between torture in Brazil or in Belfast. We should disapprove of the use of tanks and guns to deprive people of their political rights and their freedom, whether it occurs in Prague, Tehran, Suweto, Chile or anywhere else. We should express disapproval of the gaoling of such people as Kim Dae Jung in North Korea, George Fernandez in India, any number of dissidents in Russia or democratic socialists in Vietnam, a subject about which  Senator Georges  may disagree with me. We must disapprove of the banning of journalists in Africa and the deprivation of human rights everywhere. 
If we sit back with complacency at the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea because we are justifiably horrified at the excesses of the Pol Pot regime, if we ignore the excesses of the Shah of Iran because he was pro- Western and then ignore the excesses of the Ayatollah Khomeini because he is allegedly anti-Marxist and ignore what his sort of religion will do to the women of that country and to the basic freedoms of people in that country, or if we remain silent about East Timor for fear of offending the Indonesians, we have no international standing and no right to be heard in international forums. If we use the logic of Dulles and, later, of Kissinger of intervention in the affairs of other countries to assist our own economy or our philosophical prejudices, we will have difficulty seeking assistance if and when we need it. 
Earlier in this debate  Senator Wheeldon  suggested certain precepts that we can use to govern our international stance in various situations. For instance, we should oppose the intervention of countries in the affairs of others to change their governments. That is true solidarity and we should do it, regardless of the nature of those governments. We can express forcefully disapproval of the deprivation of human rights, of torture, of racial discrimination or of exploitation of man by man in any country, and we should do so. We can assist to the limit of our capacity- and it is often not great- in the freeing of all mankind from the scourges of famine, disease and malnutrition and we can urge others as fortunate as us to do so. We can increase our foreign aid to the levels that are expected of us by the United Nations and even beyond that. The policy of tolerating injustice for economic or philosophical reasons leads us nowhere. The tacit approval of intervention in the affairs of others because of political preference has been shown in the past to be disastrous and to lead us nowhere. We are perceived in the world as a white enclave, underutilising our resources, being over-protective and having a foreign policy which is dependent on the views of others and on our economic selfinterest. Whether or not that is true, that is the way in which we are perceived. 
We should try to be perceived in the world as being in favour of democracy, human rights and human freedom, and where we see those things abused we should oppose it and express our opposition. We can do so without interfering in the internal affairs of others; we can do so without interfering with the national rights of others. In doing so we can take a realistic stance on foreign affairs and not just in this place indulge in a yearly debate which is comprised largely of platitudes and prejudices from the past and which leads us into the sort of disaster in which we found ourselves in the days of the Vietnam conflict. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 1,530 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That Compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Have all pensioners entitled to fringe benefits been asked  by  the Department of Social Security to justify their need for a telephone? If so, how will this need be assessed? Is the purpose of this action, if it has been taken, to cut down the number of pensioners receiving the one-third telephone rental concession which is worth about $29.33 a year? Does the Minister agree that this will severely affect the aged, the invalid, widows and supporting mothers, who are already subject to a strict means test and who are the ones most likely to need emergency services? 
-This is an important piece of legislation which makes significant changes to the appeals system under the Repatriation Act. Therefore, the Opposition believes that the Bill deserves longer consideration than it has been able to give it. The Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives late last Thursday night and was debated and passed through all its stages there yesterday. It has been brought into the Senate for debate today. 
-We have considered it. I am not arguing about that. I have spoken to the Government Whip about this, and I now seek leave to continue my remarks at a time when the Opposition has had the opportunity to consider the Bill further. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) What was the establishment of field officers within the Department of Social Security for each State at: 
30 June 1976; 
30 June 1977 
30 June 1978; and 
30 January 1979. 
How many persons were employed by the Department of Social Security at: 
30 June 1976; 
30 June 1977; 
30 June 1978; and 
30 January 1979. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she has heard or read reports by the media today that the DirectorGeneral of the Department of Social Security,  Mr Lanigan,  was present on the night of 2 April at Commonwealth Police headquarters in Sydney when an operation was being carried out dealing with alleged social security frauds in New South Wales. I ask the Minister further: If this is so, is it consistent with answers that she gave to me on 23 November and 5 December last about this same matter? If it is so, I ask also: When did the Minister find out that her DirectorGeneral had been present in the operations room at the Commonwealth Police headquarters on the evening in question? 
I ask a supplementary question of the Minister for Social Security. Is it not a fact that I asked her a question concerning the involvement of any of her officers in the Commonwealth Police investigations that occurred on those nights? Is it not a fact that in a letter dated 5 December the Minister wrote to me: 
Both the Director-General of my department and the Commissioner for the Commonwealth Police,  Mr Davis,  have advised me that no officer of the department was involved in these activities. 
Is the Minister now telling us that the presence of her Director-General after flying from Perth to receive a briefing from the Commonwealth Police cannot be construed as being involved in these activities on that night? 
-I also want to take the opportunity in this first reading debate on the Poultry Industry Levy Amend: ment Bill to talk about discrimination against individuals. But I do not have to go to Queensland to look for an example as  Senator Georges  had to do. I merely look to this Government and its employees. I raise the matter of the Government having chosen to ignore for more than two years its employees who have been injured or who have become ill while in its service. I believe that this treatment of these people by this Government has in fact been shameful. It has been meted out to workers who have been helpless, who up until now have been unorganised and whose poor health has been aggravated by their poverty and the neglect by their former employer which in fact is the Federal Government. 
Payments to these people are made under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. Payments are made to exemployees of the Government who have been invalided out of their jobs because of injury or illness. The rate of payment to these people has been kept at the same low level for over two years whereas other pensioners and beneficiaries who are the responsibility of the Government have had twice-yearly cost of living rises every year since 1974 up until the present Government stopped that level of generosity and reduced adjustments to once yearly. These other people who are the responsibility of the Governmentthose people who have been invalided out- have had only one rise in that time- that is, one rise in the rate of payment between 1974 and 1979. In 1976, the last time the compensation payment rate was in fact increased, the compensation payment represented about 83 per cent of the minimum wage in this country. It now represents 67 per cent of the minimum wage. 
The present payment to a single ex-employee of the Commonwealth is $80 a week, of which $3.70 goes in tax. In 1975 the Fraser Government withheld the increase due to these people to save money. In 1976 an increase was given. In 1977 and in 1978no increase was given. We have no indication yet whether an increase will be given in this year's Budget. I am not talking about vast sums of money. I am not talking about millions of dollars. I am talking about five per cent of the injured and invalided Commonwealth employees who generally without superannuation are destined to spend in most cases the remainder of their lives on compensation payments from the Commonwealth Government. I am talking about $ 100,000 a year which is all it would cost to restore these payments to 84 per cent of the minimum wage, a formula which in the past has generally been agreed upon as reasonablegenerallyagreedupon,thatis,until this Government decided to reduce payments by attrition and inflation and therefore reduce the living standards of its own ex-employees. 
Since September 1976, this Government has kept its hands on $250,000 that rightly belongs to ill and crippled ex-employees. It has shown itself up in fact as uncaring for and unthinking about these employees. It has shown the same mean-minded attitude that it showed when in the last Budget it tried to tax the pensions and the allowances of the handicapped. It failed on that occasion. Those proposed taxes were in fact withdrawn in the face of unexpected militancy and unexpected solidarity on the part of the handicapped people themselves. 
In the last Budget, Commonwealth compensation payments were not increased because the Government believed that it could get away with withholding these funds for another year and it has in fact done so. The Government's back bench members- the representatives of many of these ex-employees in the Australian Capital Territory- did not lift a finger on behalf of the neglected ex-employees. At that time, these people were isolated and they were just unorganised. That has always been the case in the past because they belonged to different unions; they worked in different departments; and they came from different areas in this country. It is the case no longer. They are angry; they are organising; and they have a case which the Government should answer. 
In November 1976-I well remember when these rates were last raised- the Opposition attacked the Government for the unwarranted delay in waiting two years before that increase. The Government ignored the fact that an increase had been due at the time of the election in 1975. But, even then, none of us realised- in fact we did not imagine- that the Government would disgrace itself even further by not increasing the money for another three years. We do not know now whether it will be four or five years before there is an increase. At the time the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  admitted that some adjustments had been done when she said: 
I agree that for a long period to elapse before some change is made to the level of benefit diminishes that benefit. 
She agreed that the Government by neglect was diminishing the benefit. She did and has done nothing about it. When questioned about why the Government had done nothing about it she maintained and has continued to maintain that the reason for this was that the Commonwealth rate was still ahead of the rate in some States. I said at thetime that this was equivocation- and I repeat it- and it is also unworthy of the Minister because a comparison of weekly rates shows that the Commonwealth compensation rate at the moment is the lowest in Australia except for Victoria. It is a fair bet, I would say, that the Victorian Premier will give the rate in Victoria a sharp lift due to the fact that he has an election in the next few weeks. If I may comment briefly, in 
Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, the provisions for compensation in fact specify full pay. In New South Wales, the rate is $88.40 a week. In the Australian Capital Territory awards, it is $87.89 a week. In Queensland, it is $80.50 a week. The Australian Capital Territory rates are indexed quarterly and the New South Wales rates are indexed twice a year. Only Victoria which pays $73 a week has a worse payment record than the Commonwealth. The Victorian Government has promised to lift rates by approximately $30 a week in relation to the movement of average weekly earnings over these last four years. 
I particularly draw the attention of the Senate to the situation that exists in the Australian Capital Territory. The present rate of payment in the Territory is $87.89 a week compared with the Commonwealth payment of $80. In the Territory these rates are, I repeat, indexed quarterly. Canberra has the reputation of being a company town. The Public Service is the major work force and form of administration. In most company towns, no matter what we think of them, traditionally the company looks after its own, but not in Canberra. The company has permitted the condition of its own injured employees and the widows of employees who died in its service to deterioriate by hanging on to legitimate pension increases which they should have received in the' last three years. The compensation paid to victims in the Australian Capital Territory is higher in private enterprise, because its awards are proofed against inflation, than the compensation paid to government employees. The Government, even in its own headquarters, cannot be trusted to pay fair awards for injuries and illnesses incurred on the job. 
I draw the Senate's attention to the way in which lump sum payments to the bereaved families of workers who have lost their lives in the Commonwealth Public Service have dropped in value since 1976. I repeat that only in Victoria does a lower rate apply than in the Commonwealth. During the last debate on the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation held in 1976, I pointed out that the lump sum payments to widows and payments for specified injuries had increased by only 25 per cent between 1974 and 1976, whereas other rates had gone up by between 40 per cent and 45 per cent.  Senator Guilfoyle  's defence then, as is her defence now, was to state that the rates were higher than the rates in some of the States. This is no longer the case. I believe that the Minister and the Government should acknowledge that serious erosion of the situation has occurred and, quoting her again, 'a long period to elapse before change is made to the level of the benefits has occurred and therefore the benefit has been eroded'. It is another way of saying that we are waiting to see for how long we can get away with withholding these payments to former employees before public indignation and the indignation of the exemployees catch up with us. Therefore, it is important that this Government's neglect of compensation cases is condemned. The sooner that the Government and its supporters are aware of what is happening and restitution is made to the people whose money is being withheld by the Government, the better. It is important that we bring this up and make people aware of just how mean and despicable this Government has been. 
The honourable member for Grey,  Mr Laurie  Wallis, and I have frequently brought up the matter in this House and in another place. The Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations has been mounting a persuasive campaign to introduce in this session of Parliament improved rates and for increasing these rates to 84 per cent of the minimum wage. In fact CAGEO recommends twice yearly indexation of compensation rates once they have been introduced, increased to 84 per cent of the minimum wage, and we in the Opposition support this line. We believe it is a reasonable method of indexation just as we believe it is a reasonable method of indexation for pensions and other benefits. We also support CAGEO 's representations that the Act should be amended to provide for compensation to be awarded at the rate applicable when the claim was admitted. CAGEO makes many other points in its very carefully worded and carefully researched submission to the Government. I hope the Minister and the Government will take note of its case now and not wait until the Budget. Because of these disgraceful delays there has been hardship and there have been difficulties created for exemployees and their bereaved dependants. We believe there should be no delay in the introduction of legislation providing for the rates to be increased and for twice yearly indexation of these rates; it is simple legislation. It needs no appropriation legislation to give it effect. It would receive the support of the Opposition and it would receive the support of fair-minded Government supporters on the other side of this chamber and in the other House. 
We would be pressing for retrospective payments to compensation victims backdated at least to 1977. In 1954 a precedent for this was set when the Government backdated increases to payments under the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation which had been delayed by an election. This precedent should have been followed in 1976, as the Opposition then suggested, when the increases were again delayed by an election in 1975. We believe that that situation should apply now. The Government would be merely returning money which did not belong to it; returning money which had been withheld because of the Government's misguided economic policies. I mention that because of the great variety of unions, because of the great differences in areas in which these people are employed and because of deficiencies of the compensation schemes which were brought out by the Commissioner for Compensation in his recent report, people affected by this failure of the Government had not been organised and had not been able to present their case. This is changing. 
Recently in Melbourne I attended a meeting organised for the purpose of bringing together some of these people in an attempt to bring justice to people affected by the Government's neglect. They were men and women from the construction industry, the communications industry, munitions factories and hospitals and Commonwealth car drivers. They came from a lot of government departments and instrumentalities. They had two things in common. All were invalided out of the service because of injuries and illnesses. All felt they had been let down by the Government. All were suffering from the Government's failure to increase these payments. They had a lot to say about the failure to update the legislation and about the general conduct of the Government in treating compensation cases. They pointed out, and I point out, that the maximum payment is $80 a week and is taxed. These people have no pensioner health entitlements and no fringe benefits. They always have a great need to consult doctors and to patronise the chemists. Among their stories were many examples of lax administration, of delays, and of desperate situations which arose because of the compensation set-up. Some departments failed to send the weekly cheques at Christmas, at the New Year and at Easter. I was shown a copy of one cheque dated 22 September 1978 which arrived on 2 January 1 979. 
No public servant, no one else in the community, would allow that kind of delay to his own Christmas cheque. The Government would not dare to hold up aged, invalid or any other pension cheques at that season of the year, but it does so with payments to ex-employees on compensation. As was the case with other pensioners, we were told frequently about lost files and about the quarterly form which has to be completed. In this case it comes without a stamped addressed envelope, whereas with pensioners and others a stamped addressed envelope is normally sent. We were told about the failure of reimbursement for deductible medical expenses including chemist expenses. Some people have been trying for years to get reasonable reimbursement. 
Some families, because some members of the family are working, can support people through delays like this. However, many of these people have no such family support and are living from week to week, from day to day. They have a lot of difficulties because of their illness and because of the low rate of payment. They have extra difficulties in having to confront the bureaucracy that deals with this problem. Many complained that they had not been offered rehabilitation. Many complained that they had had no payment for months and had been refused sickness benefits because compensation payments were expected to come. This is a very bad and a wrong situation. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) What was the itinerary of the official visit made overseas by the Director-General of the Department of Social Security in January and February 1979. 
What was the purpose of the visit in each of the countries visited. 
Did he attend any of the medical reviews undertaken by the medical team in Athens. 
I thank the Minister because I did get the impression- I would not like potential appellants to get that impression- that in fact they can, by their decision, introduce new evidence. I will leave the matter at that. 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency- 
The need for an independent inquiry into the conduct of Government officials in the investigation and subsequent treatment of pensioners and beneficiaries in the alleged New South Wales social security frauds. 
The Opposition raises this matter in the Senate once again, not to debate the innocence or guilt of any individual or individuals and not to defend those who would defraud or have defrauded our social security system. It is not raised because of the revelations yesterday of the presence of an individual in the Operations Room of the Commonwealth Police but because the Opposition remains convinced that the now longdrawn out case of alleged conspiracy against members of the Sydney Greek community presents unsatisfactory features which are damaging to that community. We believe that the questions that have been asked about the conduct of the case remain unanswered or have not been satisfactorily answered. We believe that the nature of the inquiry and the charges have been such as to give rise to a feeling within the Greek community that its members have been singled out for special treatment. We also believe that the evidence from the welfare workers involved with the people concerned is that unnecessary hardship has resulted. 
The final, precipitating factor is that to the voices of the Greek community, the Opposition and the Redfern Legal Aid Office, which in the past has called for an inquiry into this matter, the voice of the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists has now been added. I might add that this is not a radical organisation, nor can it be termed in any way a political organisation. This organisation has called for an inquiry into the matter. I state quite clearly that the Opposition believes that those who defraud or would defraud our social security system should be detected, should be charged and should be penalised according to the law. We believe that it is appropriate that the Commonwealth Police should be the agent to conduct such inquiries and to lay such charges. We accept that inevitably the Department of Social Security must be involved in the detection and the prevention of such breaches of our legislation. We are concerned that such charges should be proceeded with in such a manner that the rights of citizens are protected and that no section of the community is singled out for special treatment. In other words, we are concerned that justice must not only be done but also must be seen to be done. We believe that this House and this Parliament should be kept fully informed, through the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  or anyone else involved, of the details of the conduct of such cases. We should not be left with unanswered questions or misleading information. 
Charges relating to criminal conspiracy are serious ones and the potential penalties are considerable. The nature and description of the charges are such that they confuse and frighten the people who have been charged. In this case the people have little grasp of our system of justice and law; many have a very poor grasp of English; some of them in fact are illiterate in their own language; they are certainly ignorant of their rights under our laws. They deserve the protection of this parliament and we should give it to them. 
I would like now to deal with some of the aspects of the case which I consider unsatisfactory and to question the actions of some of the principals in the affair. On the days on which the arrests were made the Commonwealth Police conducted raids in most of the cases early in the mornings on the weekend; others were conducted during the next week. During the next week people were arrested in the waiting rooms of doctors' surgeries. They were selected from those waiting rooms because of their Greek names or their Greek origins. I assert that no one, other than those with Greek names or of Greek origin, was arrested and removed from doctors' surgeries on those days. 
The police were accompanied on some of their weekend raids by reporters of one particular newspaper who were obviously advised previously as to what was going to happen and wrote up the cases in that way. Both the Minister and I have deplored the subsequent reporting of these cases. The assumption of the guilt in so many of the reports and the wild stories of the amounts involved being up to some $60m in some cases disturbed us all and we all commented on that in this House. Stories were written about people living in luxury in Greece on Australian pensions. This House cannot do anything about this sort of reporting, except deplore it. My question is: Can the blame for this sort of reporting in this case be laid solely at the feet of the media or did the conduct of the police in this case, acting under instructions, contribute to these reports and to the nature of them? 
If  Senator Missen  is questioning the right of the Opposition to raise matters like this in this House, I am sure that many people in the community would be interested. I repeat the questions that I asked in May 1978 which, I might add, have not been answered. I asked: Why were the raids conducted at the times they were conducted, that is, early in the morning and on the weekends? What were the Press doing with the police, witnessing the affair? Under what circumstances did the Press accompany the police and were they informed previously by the police? Why did the superintendent in charge of the case make statements to the Press such as: 'There are another 1,000 people involed in this case and we will get them all'? He made this statement at the time when people were being charged and when the charges were yet to be proven. I might add that I believe that at the moment the number of charges is about 166. These questions have not been answered, and they were asked in May 1 978. 
The annual report for 1977-78 of the Commonwealth Police Force contains the following words: 
Undoubtedly 1977-78 was Compol 's year for success against offences involving social security and health services legislation. During the year major investigations involving many millions of dollars were undertaken and brought to the stage of legal proceedings. This figure of course excludes routine investigations where additional significant amounts were involved. Compol 's success must have had a salutary effect on other persons contemplating similar fraud against the Commonwealth. 
I am completely satisfied with the professionalism and standard of policemanship demonstrated by members of Compol throughout 1977-78. 
I suggest that that report, which was made before people had been found guilty- and no one has yet been found guilty- contains an assumption of guilt which may please some but which, I suggest, is quite unfair to those who are being charged. Has the behaviour of some members of the Commonwealth Police been fair to the people charged in this case? Should they not have been more circumspect? Should they not have been more accurate in, for instance, their Press statements? Should they have made Press statements at all? In fact, is it usual for Press statements of this type to be made in cases like this? Should not more concern have been shown for the feelings of the members of the community and those who had been charged? 
I move on to what has happened since then, and in particular to the matter of the Court proceedings which have occurred. On 3 April 1978, the first people, some 83 in number, were charged in court. The scenes in the court were described in the Press, apparently accurately, as chaotic. There were insufficient interpreters. There was great difficulty sorting out the charges and the names. Eventually the proceedings were adjourned to a later date. 
On 12 June, a further hearing was held in the Central Court of Petty Sessions and again the scene was described as chaotic. The headline in the  Sydney Morning Herald  the next day was, Court in chaos as 153 defendants appear together'. In this court case the numbers allocated to the charges did not match the bench papers and an adjournment had to be taken while this was sorted out. Legal representatives of those charged could not reach the bar table and in the court there were scenes of general confusion. The case continued, with several interruptions, until 31 January 1979, when again the defendants appeared in court.  Mr Bruce  Brown, SM, became fed up with the delays and the conduct of the Crown and the best description of what happened appeared in the  Australian  of 1 February 1979: 
A magistrate said yesterday the Crown had been guilty of a fundamental denial of the defendants' rights' in its handling of fraud conspiracy charges against Greeks. 

 Mr Bruce Brown, SM, told Sydney's Central Court the prosecution was in no better position to proceed with the case than it was nine months ago. 
The defendants had suffered hardships while waiting to see what would happen to them and many were still completely uninformed of the precise nature of the charges against them, he added. 
  Mr Brown  said the Crown had not provided any real particulars for the matter to be taken any further. 
They have provided only a surface cover ... a veneer to show cause to continue the matter', he said. 
The manner in which the Crown had presented its case was 'a fundamental denial of the defendants' rights' as the prosecution had not been specific in any individual charges. 

 Mr Brown said he was confronted with a situation that he could not condone, nor would it be condoned in any other court. 
He then added: 
But nonetheless, I feel the Crown is entitled to test the strength of its allegations. 
These charges are being made against people who, by and large, with the exception of a few professional men, are migrants to this country; who, I repeat, do not understand our system in general, do not understand our language well and do not understand our legal system. What sort of an impression do they get when they hear comments like this from the stipendiary magistrate who is hearing their case? What sort of confidence can they have when they appear in our courts of justice, if that sort of thing occurs? 
Finally on the matter of justice, I would like to question the fact that the basic concept of innocent until proven guilty, which most of us accept as fairly basic to our legal system, would appear to have been offended in this case. This is not only an assertion by the Opposition. It has been put to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a letter by the Ethnic Communities Council, which is certainly not a radical organisation. This arises out of the fact that people involved, but not always charged I might add in this case, were deprived of their benefits and then investigated by the Department and the police. This was a matter of major concern to those Greek welfare workers who were faced with the problem of scores of Greek recipients, deprived of their income, landing on their doorstep looking for help. These Greek welfare workers formed themselves into an organisation so that they could exchange views and information and represent their clients as best they could. They produced a report, which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and many others in this Parliament have seen, in which they repeatedly commented about the real difficulty they had because they, as well as their clients, felt that their clients were being convicted before being proved guilty. The report states: 
We have been accused of over-reacting to the situation. That is not so- we are endeavouring to help people to obtain their rights and justice. We all believe that if any person in our community contravenes the laws of the land, he must be tried by a court of law and, if found guilty, then must be punished accordingly. However, to assume a person guilty until proven innocent is contrary to our system of justice. 
The appearance that people were being thought guilty without being proved so arose out of a series of statements and incidents. In support of this contention there is no question that people had their benefits stopped before they were investigated and there is the evidence of the people who were involved in the cases. Miss Isabel Lucas, the ethnic reporter of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  wrote on 19 May 1978: 

 Mr Lanigan told me from Canberra that payments to between 500 and 600 Greeks living in NSW had been suspended in order to confirm their eligibility. 

 Mr Lanigan is the DirectorGeneral of Social Security. However, on 3 May 1978 Archbishop Stylanos of the Greek Orthodox community was given an assurance, so he said, by a representative of the Department of Social Security that members of his community would not be deprived of their benefits until charged. He was complaining that members had been deprived of their benefits before they were charged. On 20 April at a large meeting in the Paddington Town Hall called by the Greek Orthodox community in Sydney,  Mr Portley  the then Acting Director of the Department of Social Security in New South Wales and a man who, at that meeting, conducted himself extremely well and with great propriety and reassured many members of the community, said that more than 500 people had been taken off pensions and benefits pending investigation. An article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 19 April 1978 stated: 
One social worker who asked not to be identified because she is an employee of the Department said that in the past seven days she had seen about SO people who had been charged with no offences but had not received their sickness benefits or invalid pension payments. In addition she said most of them had not been notified of the suspension. 
The Minister,  Senator Guilfoyle,  was asked about this and on 3 May 1978 replied: 
The people concerned are not having their payments stopped until they have been medically reviewed. It is quite contrary to my instructions and my understanding of the situation. 
I do not question that that was the Minister's belief at the time. She then went on to say: 
Lists were supplied to my departmental officers by the Commonwealth Police of persons who were under investigation, some of whom have been charged ... a Press statement of 1 9 April made it clear that if medical examinations could not be arranged before the next payment was due, the pension or benefit would continue in the meantime. 
Obviously a great difference existed between the Minister's conception of what was happening and the conception of the people concerned. On 10 May 1978 my office referred six persons to the Minister's office. They had received no money since they had been arrested. They had received nothing for six weeks. They had been in receipt of benefits which should not have been stopped. This demonstrates that statements contradicting one another were being made by different people from the Department of Social Security. There is some doubt whether the Minister really was being informed correctly by the officers in her Department. The Legal Service Bulletin of June 1978, at page 87, reported a  Mr Portley  as having said that a further 500 to 700 recipients who had not been charged, or even questioned, had had their payments suspended because they were Greek and were receiving a sickness benefit or invalid pension, and had at some time visited one of the doctors charged, and had lived in a particular locality, especially Marrickville. What was happening was that people were losing their benefits before they were investigated and before they were charged, and this was giving the impression in the Greek community that the principle of British justice that we all talk about was being ignored. 
The next of the many matters which raised concern is that of medical records. I put it to the Minister for Social Security that medical records have been used in these cases in a questionable way. In some cases, and I produced evidence of this in the last debate, medical records were obviously provided to the Commonwealth Police by the Department of Social Security without the permission of the persons concerned. Medical records of patients charged and, in many cases, patients not charged, were seized from doctors' surgeries and have been kept by Commonwealth police. I suggest that both these practices are questionable to say the least, and I am not the only one who says so. The New South Wales Council for Civil Liberties is saying so, the Australian Medical Association has made a complaint about it and the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists and the Greek welfare workers in their report also have made complaints. 
Over the last few years in debates on the national health service we have heard a lot from honourable senators about the confidentiality of medical records and the importance of their being kept confidential. In this case that principle seems to have been thrown out. In at least one case a private practitioner, a specialist, gave to the Department of Health a report on a private patient without the approval of the patient and without the approval of the patient's general practitioner. I have proof of that and would make it available to any investigation. This has disturbed the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists and others who have been involved. 
After people had been interviewed and charged there was another disturbing incident when these people, having sought to go back onto the benefit because of their insufficient means, were asked by officers of the Department to produce, when applying for the benefit, the police records of interview which they had been given by the police. I questioned the Minister about this matter and raised it in a Press statement on 2 1 April 1978.1 also asked a question on 10 May 1978 about the Department requiring these people to produce the police record of the interview when applying for the special benefit. To my surprise the Minister said that this was the first time that a matter of this nature had been drawn to her attention. Later on during Question Time she said that she had been assured by the Department of Social Security that in some of the earlier interviews the supplying of these statements had been requested in order to obtain an indication of income which might have a bearing on the applicant's eligibility for the special benefit. She then said: 
I am advised that these statements were voluntarily submitted . . . 
This assurance by the Minister, well-meaning though it might have been, is worthless. People had been accused and charged. They were desperate enough to seek special benefit. People in this country have to be pretty desperate to seek special benefit. They were doing so on the advice of the welfare workers. They were asked to take their records of interview. The impression which they and their welfare workers gained was that if they went without their records of interview they would not get special benefit. The Minister and the Department recognised this and stopped insisting that people take their records of interview, but it is another occurrence in the long story of people at least being given the impression that they were being harassed. 
Finally, in the brief time allowed to me- other speakers will follow me of course- I bring up the questions that have been asked and answered in the Senate. I repeat that they are only part of the whole affair. The first question asked involved the affair of  Mr Horafios.  I raised the matter in a Press statement on 2 1 April and in the Senate on 3 May.  Mr Horafios  claimed that he had had a photograph taken by the police with a placard held in front of him on which the word 'Greek' was written.  Mr Horafios  was not charged with any offence. The Minister, on advice- I am not questioning the Minister's honesty in this matter- said that this had not occurred. On 3 February 1979, many months later, an article appeared in the  National Times  showing quite clearly that the placard bore the word 'Greece', not the word 'Greek'. I suppose that the Minister's answer on 3 May was technically correct. The problem was- the Minister brought this up in her answer on a later date- that she had been given misleading advice. She had then given misleading advice to the Senate. That was only one of the many matters I raised on 3 May, all of which were denied on the advice of the Commonwealth Police and the Department of Social Security. If the advice in this case was misleading one wonders about the advice in other cases. 
The presence of the Director-General at the Operations Room, although the matter created a fuss in the Senate yesterday, is, I believe, of minor significance but adds to the problem. I simply asked the Minister whether any officers accompanied the police on the raids. The Minister said no. This was technically correct, but she volunteered in her letter to me the information that junior officers of the New South Wales division of her Department had been assisting the police and liaising with them. She did not point out- apparently her Director-General did not do so either- that while those junior officers were liaising with the police so was the most senior officer in her Department, the Director-General. In any definition of the term he was involved in the case with the Commonwealth Police. I suggest that misleading information was given to the Minister. 
Many other questions were raised by the Greek Welfare Workers' Group and the Redfern Legal Centre which has been involved in the defence of many of these cases. Questions have been asked about whether people were informed of their rights; whether warrants had been issued; whether those warrants had been used; how an alleged conspiracy of this size in one small section of Sydney involving similar diseases could have escaped detection by the Department for so long, allegedly since 1971; and about assurances by the Social Security Department, the Commonwealth Police and others to the Minister in reply to questions such as the ones I have raised. The very real problem has been that the people of the Greek community feel that they have been put upon. I have brought out only some of the examples of how they feel that they have been put upon. I believe, together with the Greek Welfare Workers' Group, the Redfern Legal Centre and the Royal College of Psychiatrists, that the time has come for an investigation, not into the guilt or innocence of people but into the manner in which they have been charged and the manner in which those charges have been investigated. 
-The Opposition does not wish to delay the passage of this legislation. As was the case in another place, I move the following amendment to the question that the Bill be now read a second time'. 
Leave out all words after 'That ', insert the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide (a) that in assessment cases, the Repatriation Review Tribunal shall have power to receive, and to make determinations upon, any new evidence placed before it, and (b) for the reintroduction of the six-monthly indexation of pensions'. 
Before talking to the substance of the Bill, I point out that there seems to have been some sort of a breakdown in the consultative processes between the Government and the ex-servicemen's organisations involved in and concerned about this sort of legislation.  Sir Mervyn  Brogan of the Australian Veterans' and Defence Services Council sent a telegram to the Government requesting that it defer for one month parliamentary consideration of what he calls a complex repatriation amendment Bill pending further representations. I must say that we on the Opposition side were surprised that  Sir Mervyn  should feel it necessary to send such a telegram and to make such representations as we have already spoken to representatives of the Returned Services League who had considered the legislation. It seems to me that perhaps the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  and his Department should look to wider communication with the Returned Services League. I do not agree with  Sir Mervyn  Brogan that there is any necessity to delay this Bill, nor do I believe that it is as complex a piece of legislation as he thinks it is, although admittedly there are many clauses in it. 
The first part of our amendment refers to the substance of the Bill and the second part refers to the Government's broken promises to exservicemen and other pensioners of this country concerning the indexation of pensions. We have taken this opportunity to remind the Government of those broken promises. The Bill establishes a Repatriation Review Tribunal which will replace the present system of War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and the Assessment Appeal Tribunals. This is in keeping with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Toose in his report on the repatriation system. We have no objection to the substance of this change. This Repatriation Review Tribunal will be the final body to review decisions of entitlement and assessment problems under the repatriation system. 
There is provision in the legislation for access to the Federal Court of Australia on matters of law on the motion of the appellant, on the motion of the Repatriation Commission or on the motion of the Tribunal itself. It is also provided in the legislation that matters of principle and of general application under the present Act can be referred to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. We are in agreement with this sort of change. The bringing together of the appeal tribunals into one Review Tribunal we hope will have the effect of bringing a degree of consistency to the treatment of individual cases which in the past some of us on both sides of the Senate have commented has been lacking. At present there are 8 tribunals, four to deal with entitlement appeals and four to deal with assessment appeals. The lack of consistency of decision-making by these tribunals and the lack of satisfaction with this set-up by ex-servicemen and particularly by their organisations and representatives was well known to all of us who have had dealings with repatriation cases in the past. So we hope that the new changes will be an improvement. 
The appointment of a lawyer-president overseeing the administration and the efficient operation of the Tribunal should streamline the whole set-up and, we hope, satisfy the appellants and their representatives. 
-But, not having the faith of my colleague,  Senator Button,  in the omnipotence and omniscience of lawyers, we will wait to see just what happens in that regard. The retention of informality and the absence of a judicial type hearing, we hope will assist those people who in their appeals should not be overawed by too many legalistic obstructions and restrictions which lawyers seem to bring into activities of this type. 
Sometimes it is very hard for those of us who are laymen to make that distinction. I suggest to the honourable senator that the members of the general public rarely make that distinction. Unlike many people I am not unduly worried by the lack of insistence that the medical representative on the Tribunal be a specialist. From experience, I do not believe that the presence or absence of specialist qualifications makes one a better or worse judge of the disability or the entitlement in cases heard under the Repatriation Act and, in any case - 

 - Senator Baume is not present in the chamber; so I am not really offending him. I suggest that the rarified atmosphere in which some specialists work makes them entirely unsuitable to sit on repatriation tribunals. I know that  Sir Mervyn  Brogan disagrees with me but that disagreement will have to remain. The concern of the Opposition is not with the principles involved in the re-organisation of the tribunals but with the question of assessment appeals and the means whereby new evidence can be introduced before these tribunals. It seems likely to us that the changes will assist the Repatriation Commission more than the ex-servicemen. I hope that I am not being unkind to the Commission in this regard. This is the basis on which I have moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition. In the past, an ex-serviceman who has been dissatisfied with the level of a pension or the lack of a pension was entitled to appeal to an  assessment appeal  tribunal consisting of an independent chairman and two specialist medical practitioners who had knowledge of the condition or conditions from which he was suffering. The ex-serviceman, usually with an advocate, presented a case to this tribunal in reply to the reasons given for his rejection. The appeal was heard and was examined by the independent specialist. Evidence from his own doctors and other relevant persons may have been produced and the decision was made. The important point is that in some 40 per cent of cases I am told this appeal has been upheld. The figures cited by our shadow Minister for Veterans' Affairs in the other place show that some 2,500 out of 6,000 ex-servicemen were successful under this appeal system. The legislation before us seeks to change this system. The appellant will not be examined by the Tribunal. If new evidence is produced it will have to be referred back to the original decision-making body. The appeal will be heard only on the basis of the information originally available. The new evidence will be part of a new process of application- a procedure, I suggest, which will add time, expense and inconvenience to the system. The absence of independent doctors who examine the ex-servicemen and the inability to introduce new evidence will mean that the appellant will have a more difficult time with his appeal. Just as important to appellants, the psychological effect will be to adopt the view that the dice are loaded against them. Dissatisfaction with the system may creep in. In fact, we are sure that it will creep in. Certainly, on my reading of the legislation, the Tribunal can seek specialist advice. But as I read it that advice cannot be sought on evidence which was not previously submitted to the Repatriation Board or to the Commission. Frequently, those of us who have become involved with repatriation cases at a later stage than the original application find that the appellant, or the appellant's advocate or his representative has been unaware of the significance of certain symptomatology or other medical conditions until the views of the Board and the findings of the Commission's representatives are made available. He then is able to produce new evidence which perhaps previously he did not think was relevant. If he is unable to produce new evidence from his local medical officer, as our reading of the Bill suggests- his local medical officer I point out who knows him best- or if he is unable to produce new evidence from others but has to go back to taws, the procedure may become very cumbersome. Forty per cent is quite a high success rate, I suggest, in an appeal system. If new evidence must go back through the system, it may be that the success rate will be the same but the time and the inconvenience involved will not enhance the reputation of the system. The aim of the exercise is likely to be to attempt to discourage appeals and, hence, to reduce the number of successful appeals. 
The second part of the amendment refers to the Government's infamous decision to renege on its promises of two elections and to abolish twice yearly indexation of pensions and benefits. In the past the concern for the greater numbers of civil pensioners and their beneficiaries has clouded the fact that the veterans also were involved and also will fail to get economic justice as a result of this Budget decision. The widows and children of ex-servicemen are equally affected. It is for this reason that the second part of the amendment is introduced. I, therefore, commend the whole amendment to the Senate. We do not intend to divide on this amendment. 
We have no wish to delay this legislation any further. We have made our protests in the other place and in this place. We have made our suggestions. With the numbers being what they are, our endeavours have been in vain. 
I wish to make two comments. I hope that the decision of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  announced tonight that the qualifications necessary to appear on this Repatriation Review Tribunal will be, it appears to me, always those of a specialist and will not lead to the types of rare difficulties to which I referred in my second reading speech. I remain convinced, in fact, that a general practitioner or a specialist physician- I do not wish to praise  Senator Peter  Baume's particular speciality- or, may I say, a generalist of some kind would be much better on this Tribunal than some specialist in some very narrow field of medicine. 
The second point is that I gained the impression from  Senator Chaney's  remarks that it may be possible to have new medical evidence introduced at the stage of the Tribunal hearings. That is not the impression I or my colleagues get from the legislation. It is certainly not the impression that the Returned Services League had when we consulted with it. It certainly is not the impression one gets when reading the debate in another place. I think that matter should be clarified because I do not think we should let the ex-servicemen, the veterans of this country, believe that they will be able to do as they could before, that is, introduce new evidence of this kind when in fact they cannot. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
How many widow's pensions and supporting parent's benefits were cancelled in each State in each year from 1976 to 1 978 on the grounds that the pensioner or beneficiary concerned was in a de facto relationship. 
-The Opposition welcomes the release at last of this report which has been long awaited. The matter is, of course, of great interest to me. It should be of great interest to all honourable senators, but it is of particular interest to me and to certain other senators. I was somewhat disappointed that I was unable to get a copy of the report before its tabling and before the ministerial statement was made. The number of doctors in this country and their distribution, both geographically and in terms of the various specialties, is an important matter and I hope it has been considered carefully by this Committee of Officials on Medical Manpower Supply. For some time we all have been aware of the great oversupply of surgeons and the potentially continuing oversupply of surgeons. Those of us who come from some of the smaller and outlying States have been acutely aware of the maldistribution of doctors'. As one who has done and sometimes still does occasional relief work in very isolated areas, I know the great difficulties experienced by people in those areas, in areas of bad climatic conditions and in areas with small populations, in attracting medical practitioners even though at the moment we allegedly have an oversupply of doctors. 
I hope that the Committee has looked at the sort of people who are entering our great oversupply of medical schools. It is a great disappointment to me that, in New South Wales last year, of the first 500 people in order of success in the Higher School Certificate examination, the matriculation examination or whatever it is called, 396 decided to do medicine. Although I believe in attracting intellectually good people into the profession of which I am proud, I do not believe that that concentration of academic-type people in the profession can be good. If that situation had pertained in the days when  Senator Baume  and I did medicine we would not have been doctors at all, and that would have been a great loss to the profession. I welcome the report and will read it with great interest. I hope that it has come up with some solutions to the serious problems which we have- solutions which, as  Senator Button  said earlier, may involve even the closing of the odd tertiary institution where people are trained in medicine, and consequently the restriction of the number of medical trainees. Having made those few comments, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-When the adjournment question was proposed on Tuesday last I was speaking in the first reading debate on the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill 1979 and taking the opportunity to discuss the problem which has arisen out of the Government's failure to increase payments under the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme since 1 976. I was pointing out that this had resulted in an erosion of the value of the benefit paid under this scheme from about 83 per cent of the minimum wage to the present level of 67 per cent. I also pointed out that the Commonwealth payment of some $80 a week was lower than the payment made in any State except Victoria, but that Victoria was very likely, in view of its impending election, to increase the payment very soon or at least to promise to do so. 
I pointed out that in the Australian Capital Territory people under private awards were in fact considerably better off than those under public awards, that is, public servants who work for the government. This must be a unique situation in this area. Canberra is a company town and most people here are employed by the government, but those who are sick or invalided as a result of their employment in private industry in the Australian Capital Territory are paid $7.89 a week more than those who are employed by the Government. I pointed out that this sort of situation had arisen because, firstly, there is a relatively small number of people in this situation compared with the large number of people who are being paid superannuation as a result of, say, retirement from the Commonwealth Public Service and, secondly, the people come from many different areas in the Public Service, are covered by many different unions, and come from many different geographical areas, and therefore they are not organised, are not combined and cannot put their case as strongly as they could if they were members of one large union. It would cost only some $100,000 a year to increase the payment to the level of 83 per cent of the minimum wage. This is a crucial payment because so many of these people, not having superannuation, are utterly dependent on the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation. 
However, things are changing. The Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations has been making strong representations and conducting a campaign to get justice for these workers. All honourable members and honourable senators would have received copies of the report of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations drawing the attention of the Government to the very real problems that have arisen. I was glad to hear the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  today, in answer to a question asked by  Senator Bishop,  state that she, at last after all this time, is aware of the difficulties and injustices which apply. I hope that she is successful in convincing the tight-fisted gentlemen in the Department of the Treasury and in her own Government that they should increase the payment to these people in a manner that they have not done in the last three years. Indeed one could suggest they follow the precedent of a previous conservative Government in 1954 and, in fact, introduce retrospective legislation to pay back to these unfortunate people some of the benefits they have lost in the last three years. 
As I said, I attended in Melbourne recently a meeting of people from munitions factories, former Commonwealth car drivers, former Commonwealth employees of all types which was called to form a committee to look after their interests and the interests of others who have suffered in this way. The meeting was called to present their case and to swap information so that some justice could be achieved. Many were their complaints. Their complaints were echoed in a recent report of the Commissioner for Employees Compensation, who complained of difficulties in the various departments. 
I have given some examples; I now give others. One man received no payments for months and was refused sickness benefits because he was, in fact, expecting compensation payments. This is a wrong and dreadful situation which I have referred to the Minister, and I hope the Minister's Department will deal with it expeditiously. Another man owed some $700 in sickness benefits to the Department as direct deductions from his compensation payments. Of course, such circumstances create great problems for a man who is living on $80 a week and needs extra assistance because of his disability. It raises an important matter of principle. The man, who had worked for Australia Post, had a serious back injury and a long history of delayed payments. He had young children. He was on sickness benefits for a long time. He was on sickness benefits because he was awaiting compensation payments. I would remind honourable senators that sickness benefits carry no entitlements to health, travel or other concessions. There are no fringe benefits at all. He went into debt, as so many people do in this situation. When his compensation payments finally came through he was left in the position of not only having to repay his debts but also having to pay some $700 to the Department of Social Security. I am aware that section 115 of the Social Services Act requires that this money be recovered but it provides also that discretion may be exercised as to the rate of recovery and the pressure of recovery. I believe that in this case such discretion should be used. 
I raise another point of some inequity and ask the Government to consider it. I understand that sickness benefits at the rate operating this year, last year and the year before are deducted from compensation entitlements, but sickness benefits have risen regularly over those years. Should they be deducted from compensation payments which have been stationary for those three years? If they are to be deducted, would it not be fair to deduct the 1 976 rate rather than the 1 979 rate when compensation payments, by deliberate Government action, have not been increased over that time. 
Many cases were brought forward at this meeting. They demonstrated, as the Commissioner for Employees Compensation demonstrated, that widely different practices are followed by departments. It seems that a thorough review is needed of the administration of the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation. It is clear that some departments have good welfare officers. Because as large departments they deal with many cases, they have fairly good compensation sections. But in other departments the welfare officers are never seen and the compensation section is practically nonexistent. This is because these departments are small and usually the personnel section deals with compensation matters when it is finished with everything else. The Commissioner in his annual report, which was tabled in Parliament only two weeks ago, pointed to the poor service that he was receiving from many departments that did not provide his office with accident statistics, incapacity rates, et cetera. There is no excuse for this, but it is not only the Commissioner who is receiving poor service. The unfortunate employees who are entitled to compensation are receiving poor service also. Service, I believe, should be good and should be automatic both to the employees and to the Commissioner so that he knows what is going on and can make sure that justice is done. If departments can treat senior or junior public servants in such a slack and offhand way it is no surprise that they treat the victims of illnesses and injuries in such a way. It is no wonder that some sections in some departments treat the general public in such an offhand way. 
The difficulty referred to by the Commissioner in his report, by CAGEO and by the meeting of compensation recipients cries out, I believe, for attention by the Government and the Minister. It seems that the area has been neglected. It is an area that should not be neglected. In the long run we believe that what should happen in this country is what has happened in other countries. A national compensation scheme of some type should be introduced. Such a scheme would benefit not only the recipients of compensation but also the employers, who are rapidly becoming crippled by the very high premiums they have to pay for their workers compensation schemes and who, I find, are now looking seriously at the proposition of a national compensation scheme which would share the burden around the community in a more equitable way and ensure that a greater percentage of the compensation dollar actually went to the victims rather than to the legal profession, the medical profession and the bureaucracy. It is only when we have a national scheme that compensation victims will be treated without inequity and without neglect. Only then will rates go up regularly in Une with inflation and with the cost of living rather than going up just before elections and going down after elections in a misguided attempt by governments to restrict government spending. Government spending in this case is restricted by depriving injured and sick workers of benefits they deserve and sufficient benefits to live on. At the same time the Government is able to find, for instance, $250,000 to upgrade the runways of airports to take the VIP aircraft of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
Only when we get a national compensation scheme will it not matter whether a man falls from a tree or a building in Wodonga or in Albury. At present a man is hundreds of dollars worse off if he falls in Wodonga rather than in Albury across the river. At present a government employed construction worker injured on the job in the Australian Capital Territory is worse off than a man working for a private contractor. We cannot, of course, introduce legislation for a national scheme in the present parliamentary session, nor are we likely to see it in the near future because of the ideological blinkers which the present Government is wearing and because of the hysterical opposition from some of the vested interests in the insurance industry. What we can have and should have is legislation which will raise the 1976 level of payments to the 84 per cent of the minimum wage which it should be now. We can raise payments and make them retrospective, as was done in 1954 by a humane but conservative government. 
The Minister, I believe, should not wait until the Budget to do this. She should have an immediate review of the situation. She should have an immediate and quick review of the administration of the legislation in her own Department and in every other Government department with a view to making the administration of the compensation scheme more efficient and more humane. The present payments are a disgrace even to this Government. The present deficiencies in administration as demonstrated by the Commissioner for Employees Compensation are a disgrace to this Government and to all of us. The matter is urgent. The matter has been urgent for some time now, as  Mr Wallis  in another place and I have been pointing out at regular intervals. The victims cannot wait any longer. The Budget should be the absolute latest time at which these payments are increased. They can and should be increased now. They should be made retrospective. I hope the Government takes seriously the call by CAGEO and the victims. It is not a large sum of money; it is $100,000. It would take $250,000 to make it retrospective. It is not a lot of money; it would not affect inflation. It would bring justice to a lot of people. 
I call on the Government and the Minister to look seriously at the problem again. I am pleased that in answer to  Senator Bishop  today  Senator Guilfoyle  demonstrated that she recognises the problem, but recognition is only pan of the way. What we must see now is action. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Does the Commonwealth Government contribute 50 per cent of the cost of assistance given by the States to lone fathers in the first six months of their being lone fathers, as it does in the case of lone mothers? If not, why not, and does the Government intend to change the situation? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
What countries are members of the International Social Security Association. 
What countries are members of the regional group of the ISSA meeting in Canberra on 5 to 8 March 1 979. 
What countries were represented at the Canberra meeting. 
4 ) When were the invitations sent out. 
5 ) What other people were invited to attend. 
Why was the press excluded. 
What was the cost of the conference to the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to a program called Youth Work 79 which is conducted by an organisation called the Bradfield Youth Employment Committee which has been established to take advantage of the Government's Special Youth Employment Training Program to provide employment for youth and, therefore, is a project with which we all could agree. Is the Minister aware that in the literature put out by this organisation it is claimed that youths who join the program will receive two full weeks training and at the same time receive unemployment benefit? Is this so? Does it mean in fact that this project has been given special advantages in that youths can receive unemployment benefit when they would not otherwise be eligible for it? If that is so, can other similar projects throughout Australia receive the same dispensation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security, and refers to the fact that with increasing youth unemployment it has been found that there is an increased need for the establishment of youth shelters, youth refuges or youth crisis centres. Has the Government considered increasing the assistance to organisations which run such shelters, particularly assistance so that they may be supervised more closely and so that problems such as the arrest of a priest because of an incident at such a refuge in Hobart, about which the Minister may know, may be avoided in the future? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The report of the Joint Study of Emergency Relief is an important document. The problem of emergency relief and how it should be handled in a country such as Australia, with its wide geographical differences, its wide differences in the various economic zones and the small populations in many of its towns and cities, has vexed government for a long time. But the problem is an urgent one and is becoming more and more urgent. As with many welfare and health areas in this country, we have been bedevilled by a lack of ideas as to the size of the problem with which we have been presented and the nature of that problem. 
It would seem from the short reading that I have had of the report that the joint study has done a good job in presenting to us a picture of the situation that existed until April 1 978, which seems to be about the time when many of the statistical studies ended. I note that the Government received the report, according to the date given by the  chairman  of the study, on 7 December last. It is now March and we are at last able to view the report and examine the findings of the study. The study made no recommendations; it was not asked to make any recommendations. But it has given to the Government and the Parliament the information on which to base a judgment on how best to handle the problem in the future. I am disappointed that the Government, having had the report since December 1978, cannot give us by March 1979 some sort of considered view on what it thinks may be the situation in the future so that we can discuss the matter in this Parliament. 
A crisis situation has in fact arisen with emergency relief in recent times. The claims on state agencies and the various voluntary groups for emergency relief are increasing. If recent reports from Victoria can be taken as being accurate, they have been increasing considerably since the time that this joint study was able to look at the situation. This has resulted, of course, from the increasing levels of unemployment in the country and the decreasing levels of government support for the disadvantaged and for those who are trying to help the disadvantaged. In Victoria it is claimed that this problem of emergency relief has drastically increased in the last six months. Victoria is unique in some ways in that it uses the incredibly archaic poor-box system for supplying a lot of the financial emergency relief. In fact, it is now said that the poor-boxes in Victoria provide half of the financial emergency relief made available in that State. The irony of this is that because of the inequalities in our society, including the system of justice in our society, those who commit offences, those who are caught committing offences and those who are penalised for committing offences are those who contribute to the poor-boxes and who frequently need to seek aid from the poor-boxes. The poor-boxes are contributed to by those in the lower socioeconomic group and the same group receives the relief. It is a situation which I believe can be viewed only with equanimity by the troglodytes on the far right of any political system, certainly of the political spectrum in this country. 
The joint study- I believe very wiselyconcentrated on producing the facts of the matter so that we can all face the very real situation that we have. It has given us an overall picture. The decisions and actions are up to us. By us I mean the Government, the Parliament and those in the welfare agencies who have a right to make an input in regard to this decision-making process. This decision must be made soon. We saw with the problem which arose out of the Latrobe Valley industrial disputes in 1 977 that voluntary agencies in this community can be quickly depleted of funds if there is a run on emergency relief for food and clothing, et cetera. I believe that several conclusions and impressions can be gained from even a superficial reading of this report. They are conclusions and impressions that must disturb us all. Obviously, the first is that socalled emergency relief is not necessarily a one-off thing for individuals in the community; it is frequently a normal contribution and requirement for the subsistence of some people. The joint study recognised that when, in the preamble to the report, it defined emergency relief as temporary assistance in cash or kind to assist people over a financial crisis, and being subject to reassessment each time it is sought. One has to recognise that for some people in the community it frequently has to be sought over and over again. 
When we combine this definition in the report, which was forced on the study by the realities of the situation, with the picture it gives of the most frequent users of emergency relief in the community, we have a very interesting situation. That picture is of an Australian-born person who is likely to be the recipient of or an applicant for a statutory income security payment, either State or federal, who is living below the poverty line, and who is living in unsatisfactory accommodation. We find that some groups are grossly over-represented in the area of emergency relief compared to other groups in the community. These groups include single parent families, separated persons, social security payment recipients who represent some seven or eight times their normal percentage in the population, the unemployed and those not living in houses. They are the most vulnerable groups. They are the groups which are over-represented in all the surveys of recipients of emergency relief. 
The findings in this report not only reflect the breadth of the problem which is facing anybody who tries to introduce a rational system of emergency relief, and indicate the need for a rational program to be developed and to be developed quickly, but also reflect on the abject failure of the social security system in general. It is a failure that I am not laying at the feet of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  or of this Government in particular. It is a failure which has resulted from the adoption of the wrong approach for many years and from the sort of groove into which we have got ourselves in providing social services in this country. It is interesting to note that the report says that a conservative estimate of the value of emergency relief provided by welfare agencies in this country is some $1 1m and that this estimate was based on data supplied in the agency questionnaire census forms for the last financial year ended on or before April 1978. 
We have claims from Victoria that the situation has changed radically since then. We find from the tables shown on page 20 of the report that in Victoria emergency relief from statutory funds amounted to some $447,000 or 23 per cent of the total expenditure on emergency relief in that State, and that of that figure the court poor boxes accounted for some $337,000. Recently it has been alleged in Victoria by people such as the Reverend Kerry Graham of the Broadmeadows Welfare Advisory Committee, and others, that the poor boxes in Victoria now provide almost half of the emergency financial help given in the State. It has been alleged that the emergency relief needs of welfare agencies have at least doubled in the past six months- the six months that have elapsed since the figures were published in this report- and that the court poor boxes in Victoria are in fact becoming drained. This year the payout from the poor boxes may be not only $300,000 odd but $600,000 odd. This presents a drastic situation. It presents a very dangerous position for the welfare agencies, should we have another large industrial dispute or any sort of calamity in a society which would churn people through the welfare agencies looking for emergency relief. 
In comparing the figures shown on page 20 of the report it is interesting to note the different attitudes of different State governments. I draw the attention of the Senate to the situation in Queensland particularly, a situation which I am sure will not surprise any honourable senator. The Queensland Government provided for emergency relief some $5,000 out of a total of $1,940,000. That provision represents way below one per cent of the total. At the same time the State Government in Victoria provided 23 per cent of the total, the State Government in South Australia provided 49 per cent and the State Government in New South Wales provided 16 per cent. We have at last a picture of what is happening in the community. We have a picture produced by this study which demonstrates that the most frequent reason for people seeking emergency relief at the welfare agencies was that they were waiting for their first pension or benefit cheque or an overdue social security cheque to arrive, or that they had sudden financial commitments and debt payments becoming due and could not cope with them. This should disturb all of us because we in this country like to believe that we have a social security system which looks after people when they get into strife. We like to think we have a system whereby nobody gets into such trouble that he has to go along and beg for money out of the poor boxes or from welfare agencies which can ill afford to spare that money. 
It is not easy to think of a system whereby emergency relief can be supplied by the Federal Government and yet be delivered in an equitable way throughout a country as diverse and different as ours. It is certain that there can be no uniform system administered directly from Canberra which would be justly applicable in every town and city in this country- even every suburb in this country. It is now up to the Government, the Parliament and the voluntary agencies to get their heads together and consider how this problem is to be overcome. One can be sure that the funding will be almost all federal funding, but one cannot be sure of just how the delivery should be made. It is a problem that we must solve because it is getting worse in Victoria at least and is obviously going to get worse in the whole of this country. 
One can think of people who are trying to retain youth and women's refuges in this country, who are desperately short of funds because of the need to provide crisis accommodation. Every member of this Parliament has been in the situation of being approached by people who are absolutely stony broke, desperately in need of funds, food, clothing or accommodation on a Thursday or Friday afternoon and who have no means of coping with that problem. We have all had to ring around State agencies, Federal agencies, voluntary agencies and churches looking for help for people in this situation. It should not happen. I welcome the report, I welcome the picture it gives us of the situation and I will read it with interest. I hope that the Government will respond quickly to the challenges which obviously arise out of the report. I hope that the voluntary agencies will respond quickly and give their ideas to the Government so that we can develop a rational and coherent approach in this country. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to speak briefly on this matter. Anyone who becomes a member of this Parliament very soon runs into the distress and difficulties caused to many citizens by this very real problem of dual nationality or, as  Senator Lajovic  would call it, dual citizenship.  Senator Tate  has mentioned the fact that it may be of advantage at times. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and I- I understand- are both eligible for Irish citizenship should we desire it. This may be of great advantage to us on Easter Saturday in Dublin whenever we are there. But I believe that we are in the minority of people who can achieve such advantages. We are all running into the problem of dual nationality in our work as parliamentarians. 
I believe that  Senator Tate  is correct in bringing this matter before the Senate and asking the Government to take some action on the conclusions and the recommendations of the 1976 report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which looked into the matter. Some extraordinary situations arise. I think that I am correct in saying that Argentina still considers not only people bom in Argentina but also their successors to be Argentinian citizens. That is an extraordinary state of affairs. I have not personally faced any difficulties in that regard but I dare say that you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  with your close contacts with the South American community in this country, may have done so. 
It seems to me that the problems can be divided into two groups. Firstly, there are those people who have difficulty in returning to their country of origin. We have had problems involving people from Greece, Yugoslavia and Italy who find themselves liable for national service and who have to do that national service or buy their way out of it if they return to Greece. We have the problems of people who wish to travel to their homelands and who cannot do so because they are not acceptable. There are also problems of people who, if they travel there, find that they are liable to pay tax of various types. When they run into these problems in those countries, they find that although they are Australian citizens, the Australian consulate or embassy cannot help them. I agree with what has been stated by  Senator Lajovic, Senator Tate  and  Senator Harradine.  The way to overcome those problems in the short term and, we hope, in the long term is by bilateral negotiation and bilateral agreement with those countries. 
It concerns me that we have had very little evidence of such bilateral negotiations taking place. I had reason this month to write to the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  about the difficulties that Greek citizens face when they hold dual nationality. I refer not only to the difficulties that they face because of their liability to undertake national service when they return to that country but also to the difficulties that they face if they marry in Australia outside what is, in fact, the established church- the Greek Orthodox Church under the patriarch. In Australia, a schism exists in that Church. The fact of the matter is that those people who wish to marry in this country in civil marriages do not have their marriages recognised in Greece. The children of the marriages are thus illegitimate and either partner of the marriage- but usually the male- is free to return to Greece, desert the spouse married in Australia and marry again in Greece. This happens occasionally with people who have come to this country. It apparently happens much more frequently with Greek males who have been guest workers in countries such as West Germany and Sweden. 
The Greek Orthodox community in this country approached the previous Labor Government and this Government to see whether something could be done about this problem. I wrote to the Minister for Foreign Affairs asking to be briefed on the progress that had been made and where we stood on this situation. The answer given to me suggests that, in fact, very little has been done. The Minister, in his usual manner, was helpful and said that he would try to do something for me. It seems that over the years Greek Australian citizens have been raising this matter with Foreign Ministers of various governments and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the present Government, but nothing has been done. The Minister wrote to me on 19 March this year and referred to my letter concerning talks I had had with people of Greek origin in Sydney and Adelaide on the non-recognition by the Greek authorities of civil marriages performed in Australia. The Minister stated in his letter: 
Officers of my Department have had informal discussions with representatives of some sections of the Greek community in Australia on the problems caused by the Greek authorities' attitudes to such marriages. In addition, there have been in the past discussions on this question with the Greek Government in the context of broader consultations. No conclusive result has been achieved. I have asked my Department to have the Australian Embassy in Athens approach the authorities to seek their views on holding discussions specifically on the matter. I have asked that our missions in Washington and Ottawa forward any information they may have been able to obtain on the problems faced by Greek communities in the United States of America and Canada arising out of the non-recognition in Greece of civil marriages performed in those countries. 
He went on to say that the problem will be difficult because of the established nature of the Greek Orthodox Church and the strong views of the Church on that matter. It seems to me that the whole implication of the letter is that very little has been done since 1976, when very firm reports were brought down. It seems that the evidence put forward by  Senator Harradine  and  Senator Tate  suggests the same sort of thingthat we really should be having firm, vigorous consultations with countries whose former citizens are involved in this matter. I join with these honourable senators in urging the Government to report regularly to this Parliament as to where the land lies. 
We in this country of course have not always had a pure attitude to citizenship. I spent many years of my life writing on forms that I was an Australian citizen and having people cross that out and saying that I was a British citizen. I am sure a man of good Irish descent like  Senator Mulvihill  spent years doing the same thing. Fortunately we have overcome that problem. We did have the problem in the Second World War of Australian citizens being interned for the first two or three years of the War, as they were also during the First World War, and then being called up when the Japanese came into the War and sent to fight against the Japanese. These people were treated as second class citizens, although they had been accepted as British citizens at the time and had renounced their previous citizenship. So we are all at fault. 
What we should do, of course, is get to a state in this world where people are in fact citizens of one country. As the Committee said in 1976, every person should have the one nationality or, as  Senator Lajovic  prefers it to be put, one citizenship only. But until that stage comes, we should recognise that people are unfortunately in the position of having dual citizenship and that they do face very real difficulties. It is up to this Government and future Australian governments to recognise those difficulties and to defend very vigorously the rights of Australian citizens, whether other people think they have dual citizenship or not, and to come to agreement both with those conglomerations of nations which have reached some agreement on this and with individual nations whose former citizens are now citizens of Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, refers to the review of the administrative arrangements for the application of the work test which was announced in this place on 6 March, approximately a month ago. Was that review completed in two weeks, as promised? Has the review committee reported to the Government? What action will be taken as a result of the review? Can the Senate be notified of any changes to the guidelines for the work test as a result of this review? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This is an important report. The Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications which was established 10 years ago has done a lot- as is stated in the introduction to the report- to standardise the recognition of overseas qualifications of people from various professions and trades in this country. One gets the impression from that introduction, and from the statement of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  that we have almost solved the very difficult and personal problems which frequently arise. I take this opportunity to briefly mention an area in which I do not believe such a finding is justified. 
At the end of the section on medicine it will be noticed that the Committee claims that the eight Australian medical boards are now able to speak with one voice and to act quickly, objectively and as one in the assessment of overseas qualifications. I do not believe that this is a fair statement of what happens to some medical graduates who have been in this country for quite a while. I believe that it is absolutely ludicrous that we have so many separate medical qualifying committees in this country. I believe that if one is qualified to practice medicine in one State or one Territory, one should be qualified to practise medicine anywhere in Australia. That is part of the strange constitutional difficulties which we have. As the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications states, it has gone partly towards solving this problem by introducing or being responsible for the introduction of the Australian Medical Examining Council certificate, which most States now recognise as qualifying someone to practice medicine in this country. 
I would like to give one demonstration of how I think this is not working satisfactorily and how I believe examinations cannot operate satisfac; torily in this area. In the State that  Senator Walters  and I come from there is a well known mining town which has had a doctor practising there for some four years. He has practised alone, two hours from the nearest large specialist hospital and over an hour from the nearest regional hospital. He has had to cope with severe medical emergencies, obstetrical emergencies and mining accidents of great severity. He has had to cope with very severe climatic conditions, with being snowed in and unable to get patients out. This doctor has gained the confidence of the people of the town. From my personal experience I know he is an excellent medical practitioner. 
On two occasions he passed the examination for qualification to practice in the United States of America. He sat for the AMEC but because he could not get relief in this town he did not pass the AMEC, as I may well not pass it and many other doctors may well not pass it who are practising and do not have the time to study. Therefore he was unable to be registered in my State, despite the fact he had been the only practitioner in this town for several years and had looked after the health and the welfare of the people there to their satisfaction and everybody else's satisfaction. 
At the same time there was another doctor who had graduated in her home country but had not practised since she had graduated several years ago. She had brought up her children and had had the opportunity to sit down and study the good books because she was at home. She passed the examination and can therefore practise wherever she likes in Australia. I am not suggesting she is not a competent medical practitioner; she is, but I am suggesting that the other gentleman is a competent medical practitioner who has demonstrated himself to be so. What I point out is that an examination of this type is not sufficient to judge one's competence and one's practical ability to practise medicine in this country. 
I believe that in this individual case if someone is registered to practise in a town for four years, to run a hospital in a town for four years, and to cope with all the medical, surgical and obstetric difficulties there for that time, he should be allowed to practise in that State or that country because he has done it for that period of time without any trouble. I am suggesting that there is something wrong with an examination which excludes people like that. I am suggesting also that we must get away from our chauvinistic attitude that only medical graduates of Australia, the United Kingdom and some odd universities in the world are considered satisfactory medical practitioners in this country and others are excluded because they come from such undistinguished medical schools as Vienna and other leading medical schools in Italy, the United States and all over the world. We have a strange chauvinistic attitude that we are far superior to these people. This applies not only to medicine but also to nursing and teaching and may even apply to accountancy. 
I am suggesting that the complacency which seems to me to come through in this report is one that we should not accept and that we should continue to seek better methods of recognising and evaluating the qualifications of those from overseas. We should not automatically exclude from practising in this country those who graduated in countries which do not have English as their main tongue. We should not become so obsessed with the number of medical practitioners that we have to try to solve that little problem by excluding automatically everyone except those from the British Isles and a few other places. Having got that off my chest I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
Was a meeting held in August 1978, between representatives of Commonwealth and State Departments of Health, on hospital productivity, efficiency, and cost containment; if so: 
who convened this meeting; and 
was agenda item (2), suggested by the Commonwealth Department of Health at that meeting, the rationalisation of private hospital utilisation and resources. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of an incident in the Adelaide Office of her Department two days ago in which a lady officer behind the counter was attacked? How many incidents of this type have occurred in the Adelaide office? What action does the Minister contemplate, if any, to assist the office staff in these difficult circumstances should they occur in the future? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) What categories of special beneficiaries are kept in the Department of Social Security. 
How many beneficiaries in each category received special benefit in 1978. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) How many prosecutions were launched under the Social Services Act 1947 against: (a) age pensioners; (b) invalid pensioners: (c) widow pensioners; (d) age pensioners; (e) unemployment beneficiaries; (f) sickness beneficiaries; and (g) special beneficiaries, in the years ending: (i) 30 June 1976; (ii) 30 June 1977; and (iii) 30 June 1978. 
2 ) How many in each category were successful. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether her attention has been drawn to articles published in the  Age  newspaper yesterday and today, containing comments by Professor Henderson and  Mr Dixon  about a secret report on emergency relief which the  Age  claims to have unearthed. Is there such a report? If so, what relationship does it have to the important report on emergency relief which the Minister tabled in this House last week, which we debated, and which the  Age  chose to ignore? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether her attention has been drawn to the statement made last Sunday by the Victorian Minister for Community Welfare Services,  Mr Dixon,  that the Liberal Party in Victoria, if re-elected, would index State family assistance payments on a six-monthly basis? In view of the fact that many of these payments are paid by the States for six months and then are passed on to the Commonwealth, I ask the Minister whether she was consulted before this statement was made? I ask her further whether she can give us some enlightenment as to what circumstances make twice-yearly indexation so attractive to the Victorian branch of the Liberal Party but so impossible for the Federal branch of the Liberal Party? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many people, in each State, whom the DirectorGeneral ruled ineligible for unemployment benefits during the Christmas-January shutdown, and who had no entitlement to holiday pay, applied for and (a) received; and ( b) were refused, special benefit. 
If the information is not available in the Department, will the Minister require that information be kept in the future, in order to assess the effect that such a drastic ruling ofthe Director-General of Social Security, issued for the first time in 1 977, has on the starvation levels of Australian families over the holiday period. 
Will the Minister undertake to: (a) advertise widely the eligibility for special benefit of workers refused unemployment benefit in these circumstances, and (b) make the details of special benefit provision available to trade unions which, because of the Government 's refusal to do so, take responsibility for the welfare of their members. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many applications for unemployment benefit were: (a) received; and (b) granted, in the Coffs Harbour area of the Department of Social Security during each month since July 1978. 
How many applications for special benefit, by (a) single claimants: and (b) married claimants, were: (i) received; and (ii) granted, in the area during each month since July 1978. 
How many counter cheques were signed in the area during each month from July 1 978, for people who qualified for special benefit on hardship grounds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
Will the Minister for Health make a commitment that he or the Government will not. now or later, use the withdrawal  or  $16 per day Commonwealth funding as a mechanism for controlling the number of hospital beds in the States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
May the Commonwealth define the number  or  private beds for which it will provide subsidy, or which will bc recognised for the payment of health insurance benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
Has  Mr Bruce  Montgomery been appointed Coordination Officer in the office of the Minister for National Development; if so: 
what will his duties be; 
b) what are his qualifications for this position; and 
what will his salary be. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
Was the 1977 survey on the areas and extent of abuse  or  unemployment benefit, which was commissioned during the work  or  the Myers Committee on unemployment benefit administration, ever completed; if so: (a) what were its findings; and (b) what is its status. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many members of the Greek community in Sydney who were charged with alleged Social Security frauds have been (a) granted; and (b) refused, legal aid. 
What are present limitations on the legal aid granted to members ofthe Greek community. 
3 ) What are the present limitations on the provision of legal aid to enable such persons to retain their own barristers and solicitors in the courts. 
What is the cost to date of legal aid granted to such persons. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
What was the cost of paying the supporting parent's benefit to lone fathers between 1 January 1978 and 31 December 1978. 
I enter this rather friendly discussion because I was a rather unwilling participant in the events earlier tonight. I was certainly led to believe that there was an agreement between the minority party and the Government. I must say that when I was told of this alleged agreement I had a certain amount of difficulty in believing that such an agreement had been made. However, I was convinced - 
I can do without the assistance of the junior senator from South Australia. I found it difficult to believe that such an agreement had been made. But the accusation was made with great heat in this place that in fact there had been an agreement and that agreement had been broken. As  Senator Rae  pointed out, the only way this place can work decently is by people on both sides behaving in a decent manner. I think it was  Senator Chaney  who quoted Orwell the other day about decent government. If governments act decently this place will work. The only alternative is to work with the use of brutal numbers.  Senator Baume  asked for leave to make a statement because he considered he had been misrepresented.  Senator Cavanagh  and I said: 'Sure, you can have that leave but you also have to give the right to the person who made the accusation to make a statement'.  Senator Baume  said- I accept that he said it quite reasonably- that he could not give a guarantee. I believe that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  could have given a guarantee.  His  leader sat there silently. 
-He could have, but he made no attempt to. He sat there stony faced and said nothing. He gave the impression- it was a wrong impression, you claim, and I accept thatthat some funny business was going on. We could get no guarantee of the right of reply on this side so we were refused leave. I do not agree with what happened later, but that is what happened at that stage. I think that sooner or later we have to find out and have an explanation from both sides as to whether there was an agreement because we in the Australian Labor Party are trying to give a fair go to the Independent and the minority party. If the independent and the minority party will not play the game, we will not play the game either, nor will we expect the Government to play the game in those circumstances. 

 - Senator Chipp is not here and I am afraid that I do not accept even your version of what  Senator Chipp  said. 
If the honourable senator told  Senator Chipp  that he would be speaking on the adjournment and  Senator Chipp  is not here, that is  Senator Chipps  fault and I will accept that. He may be away for a perfectly valid reason. In any event, I would expect  Senator Chipp  to make his explanation. He can do so tomorrow night or at any other time. AH I am saying is that unless we can get some guarantee of reasonable behaviour in this place and if honourable senators opposite are going to use their brutal numbers to crush any opposition we will not achieve anything and there will be open warfare all the time. The impression that was given to the Opposition tonight, rightly or wrongly, was that a deal had been done and had been broken. If that impression was wrong unfortunate events flowed from it and I hope that we will learn from it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the homeless persons assistance program. Is it a fact that, of some $3. 8m appropriated for the program this year, only about $2m is to be spent? Is it also a fact that, in the last four years, of $ 16.6m appropriated only $6. 8m has been spent? I ask the Minister to comment on the claim by the Council of Homeless Persons in Victoria that in Victoria alone all charitable and religious organisations have projects awaiting funding involving more than $ 1 m and that some of them have obtained bridging finance for salary and equipment subsidies on assurances from the Department of Social Security that they would be funded. If these claims are true, will the Government consider spending the $ 1 .9m which will revert to the Treasury in the next two months if it is not spent? 
I wish to speak briefly to the motion. I begin by seconding the remarks of the  Chairman  of the Committee in thanking the staff very sincerely for the effort they put into the preparation of this very difficult report and for their tolerance of the rather strange ways of some of the members of the Committee, myself in particular. 
May I also thank the  Chairman  for the statement that he made at the outset of today's sitting, which relieved the rest of us from the obvious suspicion that last night someone had done something with the report that he should not have done. I must say that I do not believe the  Chairman  showed any particular lack of judgment in wanting to ensure that the media of this country had a proper knowledge of what was in the report. I am afraid that he has learned the lesson that a lot of us have learned, that we cannot always expect the media to act in the way in which we think they should under such circumstances. 
The overview of this report contains above it the quotation from Robert Browning, 'Ignorance is not innocence, but sin '. I think it is fair enough to say that the Committee concluded that, in the area of health and welfare and its evaluation in this country, we do in fact live in sin. As the  Chairman  has said, we were unable after three years of examination to reach the sort of answers that, at the beginning of our inquiry, we thought we might be able to reach. It was an interesting exercise to listen to and read the evidence given, lt was interesting in that what we thought were fairly innocent terms of reference were seen as a threat by those who gave evidence on behalf of some of the voluntary agencies and government departments. 
The  Chairman  and other members of the Committee had to spend a fair amount of time convincing witnesses after cajoling them to come before the Committee that their programs were not being evaluated individually and that we were looking at the system as a whole. It was also an interesting exercise in that some of those who took a most critical view of the evaluation of welfare programs in this country were representatives of welfare agency groups- the councils of social service- or of individual agencies. 
The views of those, from both the public and the voluntary sectors, who gave evidence varied from a satisfied complacency that all was well, that they were doing good by the world- some, one suspected, were not interested in the problem at all- to a very real awareness and concern that there was a problem and that, as the  Chairman  has said, we did not know where we had been, were not too sure where we were going, and certainly did not know how to get there. 
It is important to emphasise to those who are involved in the delivery of health and welfare services in this community that no member of the Committee has any desire to flood those who deliver benefits and services in this country with a torrent of bureaucratic red tape, with requirements that would inhibit the effectiveness of their programs. We do not want to surround them with forms and we do not want to force on them unnecessary evaluation, but we do want them to step back and have a look at what they are doing, as we want to step back and have a look at what we are doing, to convince them that the proper methods of evaluation are essential and to get them to recognise that evaluation plays a proper part. As stated on page 3 of the report, if we do not do this- if we do not evaluate properly, if we do not look at programs properly- the consequences can be, and I believe have been in the past, very severe. To quote from the report, the consequences can be:   . . indiscriminate cuts in funds, indiscriminate handing out of funds, continuance of the present ad hoc decisionmaking process, perpetuation of the present inadequacies in the health and welfare system, and a possible lack of alternative solutions to problems in health and welfare. 
We cannot go on in this way. Those of us who have become closely involved in this field have become more and more aware of the fact that with an aging population, with perhaps increasing constant levels of unemployment and with a reduced tax base, we are going to have to evaluate and to account far more and far more efficiently for the money we spend. I say in passing that Labor members of the Committee are certainly not under any illusion that the introduction of proper methods of evaluation or accountability will make unnecessary changes to the distribution of wealth, wages and power in this country, which we see as a basic problem behind the necessity for welfare. We hope that as a result of the report, all people in this country will take a step back and view the system as a whole, question some of the assumptions that we have made in the past which we have considered to be truth beyond question, and learn from the mistakes of the past so that in future the development of our system will treat more fairly those it is meant to help. I hope the report will receive more attention than some Senate reports have received in the past. I hope the response to the report will not be a feeling of threat or a feeling that anyone in the welfare or health community is under attack. I hope the report will be read in a rational and unemotional way, which I can assure members of that community was the way in which it was written. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) What are the functions of the Compliance Section of the Department of Social Security. 
) When did the section come into existence. 
How many staff work in the Compliance Section and what arc their Public Service Classifications. 
How many of the section are designated as field officers. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to questions raised last week about the homeless persons assistance program. Has the Minister investigated the claims that in several States money is owed to organisations and that to complete projects under this scheme they obtained bridging finance on a guarantee of funding from the Department of Social Security? Has the Minister decided to use any of the unused funds from the 1978-79 Budget for the purpose of reimbursing these organisations? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
In how many cases and in what circumstances have pensioners and beneficiaries, not involved in the alleged New South Wales frauds, been requested to bring a police record of interview with them to determine eligibility for pension or benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
How many (a) age pensioners; (b) invalid pensioners; (c) widow pensioners; (d) supporting parents; and (e) sickness beneficiaries, had their pensions or benefits cancelled in the year ending  3  1 December, 1 978, before an investigation had been made into their circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many pensioners and beneficiaries not charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds, but whose pensions and benefits were cancelled in Australia, were referred to the Director ( Medical Services ): (a) where after examination by a Government Medical Officer there was still some doubt as to the extent of the incapacity, and final opinions were desired; (b) for consideration of the eligibility for invalid pension of a person who had not responded to rehabilitation treatment and or training: and (c) where there was conflict of medical opinion following the review of their invalid pensions and sickness benefits. 
How often did the Director (Medical Services) recommend: (a) restoration; and (b) cancellation of the pension or benefit, in each category above. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Which organisations in Victoria have received approval Tor funding during the 1978-79 financial year under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act 1 954- 1 976 and the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972-76. 
) What arc the locations of the projects concerned. 
How many (a) units (b) beds will be provided within these projects. 
4 ) Which of these projects will receive money in 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Is unemployment benefit paid to young people who, when they are not looking for work, spend eight hours or more during working hours on the beach or at cafes and hotels. 
Is unemployment benefit refused to young people who, when they are not looking for work, spend eight hours or more during working hours acquiring or renewing work skills through activities such as secretarial training. 
3 ) What is the reason for such inconsistency in the treatment of the young unemployed, in view of the fact that the use of leisure hours by unemployed young people to gain greater competence indicates their seriousness in seeking work. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Has the Minister communicated her regret to  Mr Horafios,  a victim of the raids by Commonwealth Police on the Greek community for her denial of his assertion that, although not charged with any offence, he had been photographed with the word 'Greece', which assertion was brought to the Minister's notice in Parliament on 3 May, 1978. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
What was the daily itinerary for the Director-General of the Department of Social Security during his overseas trip between 15 January, 1979, and 5 February, 1979. (see answer to Senate Question No. 1301,  Hansard  20 March, 1979, page 794). 
-I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The need to exempt social security recipients and low income families from the Government's punitive economic measures'. 
This matter is raised by the Opposition at this time because the Parliament is in its last weeks before the next Budget sittings, because the Government is preparing for the Budget and because a counter view needs to be presented to the rising tide of speculation and opinion in the community as to the possibility of cuts in welfare expenditure in general. A counter view needs to be given to the concerted and rehearsed chorus of cries for cuts in welfare expenditure by members of Government parties, and by their supporters in the manufacturing and mining industries and in the media. We have it on the authority of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and many others that they intend to cut Government expenditure. We believe that there is nothing much we can do to stop what we see as this misguided approach to economic planning in the community. We believe it is important that in any cuts in Government expenditure the poor, the disadvantaged and those reliant on public expenditure should not be the ones to suffer and should not be the ones who are asked to bear any of the burden for the Government's misguided economic policies. 
Banner headlines such as ' Fraser 's Blitz on Pay and Pensions' have appeared in the  Daily Mirror  this week followed by speculative articles on what the newspaper thinks will happen. The front page of the  Australian  of last Monday said: The Government is coming under intense pressure to bring down a tough public expenditure cutting Budget'. The  Australian Financial Review  on the same day had this headline: Budget cutters still to consider welfare'. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of the following day carried this headline: 'Health benefit cut believed to be approved'. Referring to a Cabinet committee, the ensuing article stated: 
It is expected to start vetting welfare expenditure in earnest in the next fortnight. 
The Opposition is aware that such speculation is often fostered by those in Government circles to try to give a false impression of cuts in Government expenditure and particularly of the direction cuts in Government expenditure will take so that when Budget time next comes things will seem better than imagined. It is equally obvious that some of this speculation, particularly that by Government Ministers, is a kite-flying exercise. 
Some very senior Ministers have stepped outside the area of their portfolios and commented on social security and health and welfare.  Mr Lynch,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce, told an audience of businessmen recently that he believed that the unemployment benefit in this country was too high and that too many people were receiving it. I believe this is a remarkable observation from a man who receives over $40,000 a year from the public purse, whose daily travelling allowance as a Minister is more than the weekly unemployment benefit paid to a single person in this country and who supplements his payments from the public purse with profits from property speculation in which he takes advantage of concessional rates of interest provided to him by insurance companies in Queensland.  Mr Viner  put in his bid by saying that the concept that the unemployment benefit should be sufficient to survive on in this countrythe concept was introduced by  Mr Hayden  when he was the Minister for Social Security- was wrong and that we should revert to a system under which small gratuitous payments are thrown like crumbs to the unemployed.  Mr Eric  Robinson, the Minister for Finance, who is famous for his statement that unemployment is a myth, continually makes off the cuff remarks in speeches about dole bludgers and speaks in derogatory terms about the unemployed. 
These are senior Ministers. Their party in 1974, through its shadow Minister for Labour, advocated an unemployment benefit equal to the minimum wage. At that rate the payment then would have been $80 a week and would now be over $100 a week. The gentleman who advocated the payment of such an amount is not known in this country for his consistency or in fact for his honesty. He now happens to be the Prime Minister. 
I withdraw,  Mr President.  It was not a bad try, though. I repeat that in 1 974 the then Shadow Minister for Labor,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, advocated that unemployment benefits should be paid at a level of $80 a week, the then minimum wage. In today's terms, that payment would be in excess of $100 a week. The Prime Minister's own Ministers are now saying that an unemployment benefit of $5 1 a week is excessive and that unemployment benefits probably should be reduced. Those Ministers are joined by back benchers, particularly those in the House of Representatives such as  Mr McLean, Mr Hyde  and that well known financial whizkid, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  They regularly advocate a cut in government expenditure in the fields of welfare, health and education. But the cuts that they suggest are always very selective. They advocate cuts in health insurance and public hospital expenditure, but they never advocate cuts in government subsidies to private hospitals. They advocate cuts in public school expenditure but not in private school expenditure. They certainly do not advocate cuts in the investment allowance. Back benchers in this chamber advocate that the portability of pensions should be banned, that people such as poor Italians or Greeks or British invalid pensioners should not be able to take their pensions overseas. But they never advocate that retired Governors-General such as  Sir John  Kerr or retired diplomats such as  Sir Alex  Downer, who choose to live overseas for a large amount of the time, should have their pensions removed from them. Their advocated cuts are very selective. They have no regard for the people in this country who are in real need. 
-Mr Fry of the Metal Trades Industry Association has recently been heard calling for cuts in welfare expenditure in Australia.  Sir Roderick  Carnegie and others also dutifully advocate cuts in the fields of health, welfare and education. Someone, in this case the Opposition, must put an opposing view on behalf of the recipients of welfare expenditure in this country and on behalf of low income earners in this country. 
A look at the expenditure on welfare as a percentage of the gross domestic product in countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development demonstrates that Australia is by no means a generous supplier of welfare. A review of taxation paid as a percentage of gross domestic product in the OECD countries demonstrates that Australia is not a very high tax country, a statement that I find our present Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  is suddenly making more and more often, perhaps because he sees that there will be some need for tax increases in Australia this year. 
I repeat: The purpose of these rumours and statements, which I believe are mostly government-induced, is to brainwash people into believing that health and welfare expenditure in Australia is some sort of luxury. Their purpose is probably to signal massive cuts in welfare expenditure apparently so that pensioners and beneficiaries, finding the Budget only half as bad as they expected, will be twice as grateful to the Government. The Government seems to be making taxpayers resentful of the fact that their taxes are used to pay social welfare benefits to the less fortunate. But in any civilised society, payments are transferred from the well off to the less well off to bring them towards some state of equality. The Government aims to make social welfare recipients believe that they are to blame because a government, specifically this Government, has over-run its deficit. It aims to have the country believe that good economic management is the same as slashing a welfare program. The Opposition does not see as sound economic management the Government's determination to put the burden of economic recovery on lower income groups or on the least protected in the community. The Opposition does not see as sound economic management this Government's policy of keeping an unemployment pool of between 6 per cent and 7 per cent as an economic tool, as it has done in the last year. We do not believe that it is sound economic management deliberately to underestimate by at least $ 120m the cost of paying unemployment benefits, as the Government has done this year, and then to scream because the Budget deficit is up and tax collections are down. Nor is it sound economic management to suggest that welfare expenditure will have to be cut to correct this situation. 
When we talk about welfare expenditure in this country we are talking about something over $7,000m being paid out this financial year by the Department of Social Security. Of this amount, more than 80 per cent will be spent on income security payments, that is, pensions and benefits; about 15 per cent will be spent on allowances, mainly family allowances; the rest will be spent on administration and programs for the handicapped, the aged and the homeless. Over fourfifths of the expenditure on welfare goes to the aged, the invalid, the single parents and the unemployed- in other words, the people who are prevented by age, by disability or by circumstances of the job market, from obtaining employment to enable them to receive an income. The pensions and benefits that they receive represent their entitlement to what Professor Henderson in his report on poverty called 'the right to a basic level of security and well-being'. He went on to say:   . . all government action should respect the independence, dignity and worth of every individual. 
Pensioners and beneficiaries had every reason to believe themselves secure in this right, as they had been under the Labor Government, until last year when the Fraser Ministry went back on its promise of twice-yearly indexation of pensions. In the first statement of policy by this Government in the Governor-General 's Speech on 1 7 February 1 976, the Government said: 
The Government will not permit economic recovery to take place at the expense of those less well off. 
We intend, by this motion, that the Senate should ensure that the Government is reminded of that promise and in the next Budget will not make a cut in welfare expenditure, thereby permitting economic recovery at the expense of those less well off. The Labor Government raised the standard pension rate from 1 9 per cent of average weekly earnings to almost 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Fraser Government guaranteed to protect that pension from inflation by twice-yearly indexation. We had an election in 1 977, and in the policy speech leading up to that election, the Government gave no indication that it was going to reverse the policy in its next Budget and cut out the May pension increase. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  said at the time: 
The decision to index pensions annually was taken in the light of the anticipated reduction in the rate of inflation and in the belief that with a level of inflation of something like 5 per cent or lower an annual increase is appropriate. 
In fact the level of inflation is not 'something like 5 per cent or lower'; it is 8 per cent, the same level as the year before when twice-yearly indexation was considered appropriate by the Government. The Minister also said on the same day: 
The policy itself - 
That is, the policy on twice-yearly indexation-  and the introduction of that policy into legislation made no qualification. A subsequent decision in this Budget has changed the approach to the increasing of pensions . . . 
So pensioners and beneficiaries in this country are no longer to rely on election promises. They are at the mercy of what the Minister calls subsequent Budget decisions which change the whole approach to pensions. It is the Government's broken faith in the matter of the indexation of pensions that has been most notable. The change without warning from twice yearly indexation of pensions to annual indexation has saved some $27m this financial year. It has cost each single pensioner $60 and each married couple receiving a pension nearly $100 in lost payments. We cannot have in this year's Budget a repetition of that sort of thing. 
The Government cannot be surprised by the anxiety and insecurity felt by pensioners and welfare organisations if promises firmly made are to be changed because of subsequent Budget decisions made in exactly the same climate of economic self-righteousness which was whipped up by Government sources, representatives of manufacturing industry, et cetera, last year when they called for cuts in welfare payments. The 
Government cannot be surprised if the people over 70 years of age who receive means test free pensions are anxious because the newspapers, not accidentally we suggest but as a result of rumour mongering by the Government, are now speculating on the fate of that pension. So they should be conscious, in view of the means testing of the increase in that pension last year. We cannot blame widows for becoming anxious, even after the Minister's firm statements that class B and class C widows might not be subjected to pension cuts this year, because subsequent Budget decisions may be made. They have no guarantee that this will not happen. 
We are concerned about speculation. The aim of this motion is to have the Senate express the opinion that in this area of expenditure there should not be cuts when the Government has made it perfectly clear that it intends cuts in public expenditure. 
It has been made perfectly clear in statements by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. The Government has been urged to continue cuts in public expenditure by all its supporters in the community. 
Any further attack on the pensioners of this country by changes in the indexation arrangements, reductions in benefits through a reduction in the availability of fringe benefits or by failure to increase the level at which they are available will merely add to the difficulties that these pensioners have faced in the last few years. They have recently had the experience of having their right to telephone concessions queried. The Opposition agrees, of course, that such concessions should be means tested, but we point out again that the way the Government did this, by sending out thousands of letters to old and sometimes confused people without public announcement or explanation, caused considerable anxiety and difficulty in the community. Pensions are no longer protected from inflation in the way that they were in the past despite the promises. Fringe benefits are not proofed against inflation or government policy changes. Supplementary benefits and rent allowances have not been protected against inflation. They have not been increased since this Government came into office. They have not been raised since the Labor Government raised them in 1975. Pensioners are concerned. We believe that the Senate should express the opinion that these people should be protected. 
Family allowances are also under attack. I believe my colleague,  Senator Ryan,  will have more to say about this. They have been under attack since the abortive attempt to introduce a means test in the last Budget. Statements have been made in the other House about the need to reduce family allowances. While these payments took the form of tax deductions and rebates they did not attract much attention in the community. However, since they have been out in the open as a positive supplementary payment to wage and salary earners, pensioners and social security recipients with children- a move which this side of the House supported- many Government back benchers, particularly people such as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  have been advocating cuts in these payments. Family allowances, as every mother in the community has noted, are worth considerably less than when they were introduced in 1976. If their value had been protected against inflation as the value of tax rebates would have been under any tax indexation scheme, another $300m would have been paid to mothers to compensate for the decline in the value of the allowances as a result of inflation. Family allowances are a recognition that it costs money to raise children. Similarly, allowances for the children of pensioners and other beneficiaries have not been raised by this Government since it took office in 1975. They were last increased by the Labor Government in 1 975. They have remained at $7.50 per week per child for the last four years in spite of the increases in the cost of living. 
Welfare recipients and agencies are entitled to ask how seriously the Government is taking its responsibilities to provide services for the disadvantaged groups, such as the aged, the handicapped and the homeless. We all remember that a three-year program for aged persons' accommodation to cost $225m was announced in August 1976. By August 1979, three years later, the three-year program will cost $150m, only two-thirds of the amount that was promised. Services to the aged under the States Grants (Home Care) Act were cut last year when the Government reduced the subsidy to the States from 2: 1 to 1:1. 
The amount appropriated was increased, but we pointed out at the time that this would inevitably lead to a reduction in the amount contributed by the Commonwealth if the States could not match the amount which the Federal Government was willing to put up.  Senator Guilfoyle  said at the time that this was rubbish and that a higher amount than ever would be spent by her Government. But now the Government is handing back to revenue $2.04m of the home care services money which has not been spent. It has spent only $8. 3m of the $ 10.4m appropriated. It has spent less than the $9.1m that it spent last year. That lower spending is a direct result of the Government 's cut in the subsidy last year. The result was inevitable. The Opposition, the State governments and the voluntary agencies said so last year. They were right. 
The Government has only itself to blame if its statements on welfare expenditure are not taken seriously. A very good example of the manner in which the Government considers the less fortunate in the community is the manner in which it treats its own employees who are invalided out of service. Such people have never received protection for their payments from this Government. One cost of living adjustment in September 1976 is all that these people have received in four years to compensate for the effects of inflation. Their payments which are the second lowest in Australia are totally inadequate. They demonstrate how mean an employer a government can be. These victims of injury and illness waited for an indexation rise in 1977. They waited in 1978. They have not received one. One can only hope that they will receive one in 1979 and that the Government will consider them in the list of low income earners and social security recipients who are covered in this motion. 
The Government has also underspent in the homeless persons' assistance program this year. Last week the Minister said in answer to a question in this place that this under expenditure was due to projects not having been commenced when anticipated due to inherent delays in lead-up work. She said, however, that funds allocated for projects which had not proceeded as anticipated were made available as the projects matured and as they required them. This is an incorrect statement. Projects have proceeded as anticipated. It is the Government's money which has not been forthcoming as anticipated. In Victoria and Queensland considerable amounts of money have been spent. Money has been obtained through bridging finance in the anticipation of receiving money from the Department of Social Security. They have not received it and they do not know when they will receive it. Yet the Government intends to send back to Treasury unspent funds amounting to $1.9m this year. I believe that all honourable senators have been approached recently on this matter. The people concerned with the homeless persons assistance programs suddenly find that instead of there being a shortage of money, an amount of money will be sent back to Treasury unless the Government changes its mind. We hope that the Government will remember this when it is considering this matter and what it will do in the Budget. 
Of course, it is about the unemployed that we on this side of the chamber are particularly concerned. We are concerned in view of the Government's record and in view of the fact that it has increased the difficulties for people to obtain the unemployment benefit. It has changed the work test. Government members have continually questioned the existence of unemployment and the motives of the unemployed. The Government has indulged in a campaign of denigration of the unemployed and it continues to do so. We are concerned because of what happened last year in the Budget when single unemployed people were excluded from the indexation of benefit payments and when unemployed people under 18 years of age received no increase in their benefit payment. We are concerned, particularly in view of the remarks of senior Ministers like  Mr Lynch,  that again the Government will see the reduction of unemployment benefits as a means of cutting Government expenditure. The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs recently put out a record about unemployed people. It is called  C'mon, Give us a Go.  Mr Warboys,  the spokesman for the Commonwealth Employment Service said: 
C'mon,  Give us a Go' cost $35,000 to produce and the aim of the campaign was to educate the feelings of the public to the feelings of the unemployed and create a community awareness and a wave of support for them. 
I suggest that the first place the record should be played is in the Cabinet room, in view of what happened there last year when the Government just refused to grant proper indexation and pay proper increases in benefits for the unemployed. 
The aim of this motion is to draw the attention of the Senate and the Parliament to the fact that a campaign is being conducted in the Press, by leaders of industry, by senior ministers of the Government and by back benchers in the Government to reduce the amount of expenditure on welfare, health and social security in particular, but also on education, in the Budget this year. This results from Government members very real concern that their predictions about what would happen last year have been completely incorrect and that they have talked themselves and the rest of the community into the magic nature of the size of the Budget deficit. They have talked the members of the community and themselves into believing that the way to lead this country to economic recovery is just blindly to cut the Budget deficit and to show no concern about the social security recipients and the low income earners. 
The Government is willing to spend large amounts of money on investment allowances which assist industry to replace workers with machinery and with increased technology. The Opposition believes that any attempt to reduce the welfare vote, as is advocated by many Government supporters and people in the community, should be resisted strongly. That is why we have moved a motion that in the opinion of the Senate this should not happen. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many staff management conferences have been held by the Department of Social Security since October 1978. 
Where have they been held. 
What are the costs of these conferences, including transport, accommodation, lecturers ' fees, etc. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Who gave instructions that people whose pensions and benefits were cancelled after the raids in the alleged New South Wales frauds were to bring their records of police interview to the Department of Social Security to establish entitlement to special or other benefits. 
) How many people were asked to do so. 
How many refused to do so. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
Did the Department of Social Security receive information from a Sydney psychiatrist, in March 1977 or thereabouts, that he had given a drug, phenobarbitone, to patients; later taken blood tests to measure phenobarbitone levels; and found only a small number had evidence of the drug in their blood; ifso: 
did the Department ofSocial Security take action as a result of such information; 
what was the doctor's name; and 
did the doctor inform the patients of his activities. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) How many appeals relating to all pensions and benefits were lodged between1 October and 31 December 1 978 against the determinations of officers of the Department ofSocial Security. 
) How many of these appeals were: 
a ) approved by the departmental review officers: 
b ) referred to Social Security Appeals Tribunals; or 
withdrawn by the appellants. 
3 ) How many of the appeals referred to the Social Security Appeals Tribunals were: 
a ) disallowed by the Appeals Tribunals; or 
b ) recom mended by the Appeals Tribunals and referred for approval to a State Director. 
How many of the appeals recommended by the Appeals Tribunals were: 
a ) approved by the State Directors; or 
b ) referred to the Director-General for decision. 
How many of the appeals referred to the DirectorGeneral were: 
approved by the Director-General; or 
dismissed by the Director-General. 
asked  the  Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many pensioners and beneficiaries charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds were referred to the Director (Medical Services): (a) where after examination by a Government Medical Officer there was still some doubt as to the extent of the incapacity, and final opinion was desired: (b) for consideration of the eligibility for invalid pension of a person who had not responded to rehabilitation treatment and or training: and (c) where there was a conflict of medical opinion, following the review of their invalid pensions and sickness benefits. 
How often did the Director (Medical Services) recommend: (a) restoration: and (b) cancellation, of the pension or benefit, in each of the categories above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
What women's retraining programs under the National Employment and Training System are Funded in each State. 
What amounts have been allocated to these programs in each year from 1976 to 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Are statistics kept in the Minister's Department on special groups of Commonwealth Employment Service registrants, e.g. 15-18 year olds, 19-20 years olds, Aboriginals, handicapped persons, ex-prisoners; if so, will these be made publicly available. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many pensioners and beneficiaries of Greek origin not charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds had: (a) an invalid pension; (b) sickness benefits; and (c) other pension or benefit, cancelled, and when were the pensions or benefits cancelled. 
How many of those persons were receiving (a) invalid pension; (b) sickness benefit (c) special benefit; (d) unemployment benefit; and (e) other pension or benefit, at the end of each month from April 1 978 to January 1979. 
Of the pensions and benefits not restored how many (a) invalid pensions; and (b) sickness benefits, were not restored on (i) medical; and (ii) income grounds. 
How many persons who had pensions and benefits restored to them or were granted other benefits had them backdated to the dates of their cancellation. 
Where restored pensions and benefits or new benefits were not backdated, what were the reasons. 
Were the persons affected informed of the reasons; if so, how. 
Were they told of their right to reapply, and to press for backpayments, to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. 
8 ) How many did so. 
How many cases are still under investigation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many (a) invalid pensioners of Greek origin; and (b) sickness beneficiaries of Greek origin, whose pensions or benefits were cancelled but who were not charged in connection with the alleged New South Wales frauds had held those pensions or benefits for (i) two years or more; (ii) between one and two years; (iii) between six months and one year; and (iv) less than six months. 
How many patients of Greek origin who were not charged in connection with the alleged New South Wales frauds had been waiting for compensation settlement for (a) two years or more; (b) between one and two years; (c) between six months and one year; and (d) less than six months. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) How often have specially constituted medical tribunals been established to resolve a dispute on a medical issue (sec page 2 of the Annual Report of the Department of Social Security 1977-78). 
Are the doctors appointed by the Department of Health or by the Department of Social Security. 
How many doctors are on each tribunal. 
How many are general practitioners and how many are specialists. 
Are there appeal provisions from this tribunal; if so, what are they; if not, why not. 
Why are pensions and benefits not continued until the appeal is determined when they continue during the consideration of an appeal by the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1 979: 
Are pensioners who request that their pensions be paid overseas under the portable provisions ofthe Social Services Act 1947 now required to sign an agreement that if the pension is cancelled while the person is overseas it cannot be reinstated unless the pensioner returns to live permanently in Australia; if so: (a) why; and (b) when was the condition imposed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
Has research been undertaken in the Department of Social Security on an analysis of family allowances and where they are paid; if so, is there any reason why this research should not be released on request. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
I ) How many invalid pensioners whose pensions were cancelled in Greece; (a) have returned to Australia to lodge an appeal: (b) have had their invalid pensions restored; (c) have been granted: (i) sickness benefit: (ii) special benefit; and (iii) unemployment benefit, pending investigation: and ( d ) have been refused pensions or benefits. 
For what reasons have pensions and benefits been refused in such cases. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many persons receiving pensions or benefits under the Social Services Act 1947 were charged with conspiracy under the Crimes Act 1914 before 31 March 1978 for offences connected with their pensions or benefits. 
When were such persons charged, and what pensions or benefits had they been receiving. 
3 ) Were any such prosecutions successful. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
How many invalid pensioners in Greece whose pensions were cancelled in April 1 978 and subsequently reviewed had their pension cancellation confirmed on: (a) income grounds; and ( b) medical  grounds. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
How many pensioners, in the course of the recent review of age pensioners over 70 to assess eligibility for pension increases: (a) were sent forms to complete; (b) returned those forms; (c) were found (i) eligible, and (ii) ineligible, for pension increases; and (d) had pensions cancelled because they failed to reply. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many cases of appeals by pensioners and beneficiaries against adverse decisions by the Department of Social Security have been seen by review officers in each State since the establishment of such reviews. 
In how many cases in each State: (a) has the Review Officer: (i) recommended; or (ii) activated, the reversal of such adverse decisions; ( b ) has the Review Officer satisfied the claimant that the Department's adverse decision was correct; and (c) was the Review Officer the original determining officer. 
Has the Review Officer stage resulted in a diminished number of appeals going to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many of the invalid pensioners whose pensions were cancelled in Greece during April 1978 currently receive: (a) invalid pension; (b) age pension: and (c) no pension. 
) How many cases are still being investigated in Greece. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 Feburary 1979: 
Were the criteria used by the medical team sent to Greece to assess the eligibility of invalid pensioners the same as would be used in assessing eligibility in Australia; if not. how did they differ. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) Does the Director-General of Social Security issue guidelines to a departmental officer who is asked to review eligibility for sickness benefit or invalid pensions; if so, what are the guidelines. 
Do the guidelines differ for pensioners living in Australia and those living overseas. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on  2 1  February  1979: 
1 ) How many invalid pensioners charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds now receive: (a) invalid pension; (b) sickness benefit; (c) special benefit; (d) unemployment benefit; and (e) other pension or benefit. 
How many sickness beneficiaries charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds now receive: (a) sickness benefit; (b) special benefit; (c) unemployment benefit and (d) other pension or benefit. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
When is it expected that the building in Stewart Street, East Launceston will be ready for use as a child care centre. 
askedthe Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on  2 1  February  1 979: 
1 ) What was the reason for the delay until15 January 1979, in the departure of the medical team for Greece, when the Minister told Parliament on 24 November 1978 that the arrangements had been made several weeks earlier. 
How long was the medical team in Greece. 
When did the team return to Australia. 
How many invalid pensioners in Greece whose pensions had been cancelled were informed of the visit of the medical team. 
How many pensioners were seen in (a) Athens; and ( b ) elsewhere in Greece. 
How many pension cancellations were (a) confirmed; and (b) reversed, by the medical team. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on  2 1  February  1 979: 
1 ) How many invalid pensioners charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds had held their pensions for: (a) two years or more: (b) between one and two years: (c) between six months and one year: and (d) less than six months, before their pensionswere cancelled. 
How many sickness beneficiaries charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds had been on sickness benefits for: (a) two years or more; (b) between one and two years; (c) between six months and one year; and (d) less than six months. 
How many of those charged under the Crimes Act 1914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds were involved in compensation cases awaiting settlement. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) How many invalid pensioners, receiving their pensions in Greece had these pensions cancelled, and when were the pensions cancelled. 
) Between what dates were these cases first reviewed. 
How many pensioners were: (a) reviewed; and (b) given medical examinations, at that time. 
What form did the medical examination take and what was the average time taken for such medical examinations. 
How many invalid pensioners in Greece have had their pensions restored. 
What attempt was made to contact those pensioners in Greece whose pensions were cancelled but who did not attend the review. 
Arc continuing attempts being made to find those who did not attend the review, to ascertain that they are not in desperate circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
How many persons charged under the Crimes Act 1 914 in the alleged New South Wales frauds had: (a) invalid pension; (b) sickness benefit; and (c) other pension or benefit, cancelled, and when were the pensions or benefits cancelled. 
How many of those person:; were receiving: (a) invalid pension: (b) sickness benefit: (c) sickness benefit: (d) unemployment benefit: and (e) other pension or benefit, at the end of each month from April 1 978 to January 1979. 
Of the pensions and benefits not restored how many (a) invalid pensions; and (b) sickness benefits, were not restored on (i) medical: and (ii) income grounds. 
How many persons who had pensions and benefits restored to them or who were granted other benefits had them backdated to the dates of their cancellation. 
Where restored pensions and benefits or new benefits were not backdated, what were the reasons. 
Were the people affected informed of the reasons: if so, how. 
Were they told of their right to re-apply, and to press for backpayments, to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal. 
8 ) How many did so. 
How many cases are still under investigation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Who gave the order to terminate invalid pensions in Greece in April 1978. 
When was the order given. 
3 ) When did the termination occur. 
Is the Minister satisfied that the reviews which took place initially were proper medical reviews. 
Was it the intention of the Minister to leave these people without any form of income for almost a year while their cases were being investigated. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) Do the functions ofthe Department of Social Security include the provision of appropriate statistics on funded services to organisations providing these services in order to assist planning decision. 
What statistics are published by the Department of Social Security on meals funded under the Delivered Meals (Subsidy) Act 1970 other than Tables 69 and 70 in the Annual Report of the Department, particularly in relation to: (a) the number of meals per annum provided by each municipality or organisation, with State and national totals: (b) the proportion of aged persons who used this service; (i) by municipality or other area of service: (ii) in each State: and (iii) nationally; (c) the proportion of subsidised meals provided in senior citizens .'...-- (i) by municipality or organisation; (i) by muncipality or organisation; (ii) in each State; and (iii) nationally: and (d) the proportion of the cost of meals on wheels which is met by the Commonwealth subsidy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Does the staff of the Department of Social Security provide an advisory service to organisations subsidised to provide meals on wheels. 
Does the departmental staff have appropriate expertise available to advise subsidised organisations on major planning decisions, such as whether to purchase frozen meals from a hospital or to construct new kitchens of their own. 
Are municipalities and other subsidised organisations frequently reviewing their meals on wheels services without adequate expertise available to them and are Council and 
Commonwealth funds therefore not deployed in themost efficient manner. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) What were the location and value of projects for which grants were made under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act 1974 in each State in (a) 1976-77; (b) 1977-78; and (c) between 1 July 1978 and 31 March 1979. 
Which of these were designated as youth refuges. 
How many applications for grants under the Act forwarded to the Department have not received approval but would be eligible for funds if money were available. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
Did the Minister authorise a survey to be conducted by R. J. Donovan and Associates Pty Ltd, into the characteristics of special beneficiaries; if so: 
a ) in what areas was the survey conducted; 
b ) what is the cost to the Government of the survey; 
will the findings be publicly released on request; if not, why not; and 
what other surveys by outside consultants are being proposed by the Department of Social Security in the financial year 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Social Security upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
Were Commonwealth funds used to purchase a house in Stewart Street. East Launceston, to establish a child care centre: if so 
when was the house purchased: 
from whom was it purchased: 
what was its cost: 
) what is the current valuation of this property; 
what alterations will be necessary to make this building suitable for a child care centre; 
what is the estimated cost of such alterations: and 
how may children per day is it estimated that a child centre in this building can accommodate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Has the Government withdrawn the $100 tool and textbook allowance for pre-apprenticeship students under the National Employment and Training Scheme. 
) Has it also withdrawn the living away from home allowances for young country people who need to go to the city to train as pre-apprentices 
If so, what savings will the Government make from these cuts. 
Will young people benefit more from being on unemployment benefit than from being given the opportunity to undertake skilled training. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) Will the Minister ask her Department to conduct a survey to ascertain the approximate proportion of unemployment beneficiaries and special beneficiaries paying rent, so that it is possible to estimate the cost of paying such beneficiaries supplementary assistance, in view of her answer to Senate Question No. 460  (Hansard.  12 September 1978, page 509). 
Does the Departmental analysis of unemployment beneficiaries, which showed that more than 97 percent had a continuing income of less than $3 a week, mean that they have the least disposable income of all social service recipients. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) How many of the cases of invalid pensioners returning from Greece to establish their right to pension after their pensions were cancelled in April 1 978 were referred to the Director ( Medical Services ) for medical advice. 
In how many cases did the Director ( Medical Services ) recommend: (a) restoration and (b) cancellation of the pension. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployment benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 15 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled, we the undersigned citizens of Australia request that: A suitable youth shelter be provided for the homeless youth of Launceston. 
We consider that this shelter should be established within the city of Launceston boundaries, as there is no crisis accommodation in Launceston for homeless boys. 
We your humble petitioners therefore pray that this need be attended to as a priority need. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I refer the Minister for Social Security to a case of a very courageous mother of seven from Hobart who recently had her widows pension restored and was paid some $10,000 after taking out a High Court writ against officers of the Minister's Department. Was the money paid to this lady in replacement of the pension that she had previously been refused? What action has been taken against those officers who refused her this pension in October 1977 and then allowed the situation to go on until a High Court writ was necessary? Have the guidelines pertaining to bona fide domestic relationships, which were an issue in this case, been changed as a result of the case? If so, how will this affect the thousands of other women in this country who have been refused pensions for similar reasons? 
I wish to throw a little more light and a different perspective on the social security section of this Budget, or as much light as I can in view of the short time I have had to look at the Budget papers and at the statement put down by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  The Minister has said that this is a compassionate Budget, and I assume that she based that statement on the fact that the Government has decided to restore justice to the pensioners of this country by reintroducing twice-yearly indexation, which should not have been removed last year. It should not have been removed, firstly because its removal was unjust and, secondly, because in doing so the Government went back on a firm electoral promise to the people of this country. The Minister also said that the Budget was compassionate because it dealt in a compassionate way with the needy in this community. 
I want to deal with four aspects of the Budget which concern the needy in this country and to demonstrate the Government's strange handling of the word 'compassionate'. First of all, I assume it is an oversight, but nowhere in the 
Budget Speech or in the Minister's statement can I find reference to special benefits. I assume that special benefits will be indexed in the same way as sickness benefits, but as there is no reference to them I believe that the Minister at some time should make it clear that they will be indexed. If not, it would certainly be a severe penalty on the poorest people in the community. Much has been made in both the Treasurer's speech and the statement by the Minister of the increase in the eligibility level for fringe benefits. By coincidence, the Minister today answered a question from  Dr Klugman  in another place which asked what the level of eligibility for fringe benefits would be if they had been indexed in the years since they were last increased. In answer to Question on Notice No. 3968 the Minister said that for a single person the amount would have been $62.10 and for a married couple $108.15, considerably more than the $40 and $68 of which the Government is trying to make great play. It is the very poor and the very disadvantaged people in this community about whom I am concerned. 
The first group to which I will refer is the single unemployed without dependants. Such people will remain on $51.45, the same benefit they have received for the last two years. I point out that that is actually less than the daily travelling allowance for a Minister of the Crown in this country. In March there were some 261,500 unemployed without dependants in this country. As with other unemployed people, they are still allowed to earn only $6 a week. If they earn more than that their benefit is reduced by $ 1 for every dollar they earn over $6 a week. Such people are still in that parlous situation in an economic climate where there are 23 unemployed for every job vacancy in the community. Our biggest social problem by far is unemployment, yet the Government treats the unemployed without dependants in what I believe is a heartless and callous manner. The young employed, those under 18 years of age, remain on $36 a week, as they have since 1975. However, their benefits have been eroded considerably by the 40 per cent-odd inflation that has occurred since then. Many of the unemployed without dependants in fact are over 45 years of age. They have lost their jobs because of technological changes, because their jobs have been replaced by machines as a result of, amongst other things, the investment allowance introduced by this Government. Yet of all people they have been singled out in this Budget. One wonders why. 
The next group is those who can probably be called the poorest of the poor in the community. They are the pensioners who are earning less than $5 a week and who live in rental accommodation. Every survey of the poor in our community points out that such pensioners are the poorest of the poor, yet the supplementary allowance payable to assist them with their rent remains as it was in 1 975. There is to be no increase in that allowance, nor is there to be any increase in the amount paid for pensioners' children, which has not been increased since 1975. These poor people with children, who are dependent on the Government for their incomes, have not had their children's allowances increased since 1975. That can hardly be described as compassionate behaviour towards the poorest people in the community. 
I come now to family allowances, mention of which has been avoided very carefully in this Budget. Family allowances have not been increased since 1976, when they were introduced to replace child endowment, which had remained unchanged for many years and had become fairly meaningless. They also replaced the tax rebate for children, which in any reasonable system of tax indexation would have been indexed since 1976 and certainly would have been increased since 1976. Family allowances have been eroded by inflation since that time, a factor which was admitted in a speech made to a recent social security conference by none other than the Director-General of Social Services, a man who is not known for wild statements on this subject. The allowances are extremely important to that group in the community who are not touched by our social security system- the working poor, the people on low incomes with a number of dependent children. Their only extra income has been the family allowances, and the value of those allowances has been eroded consistently since their introduction in 1976. If one adds to that group the pensioners with children whose dependants' allowances also have not been increased since 1975 one finds that those people in the community are being affected severely by inflation and by the failure of the Government to recognise that and to compensate them for the inflationary forces in our economy. 
Finally, may I mention the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme. At last, following considerable pressure since 1976, the Government is going to increase the benefits paid under the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme. They will be increased by about 12.5 per cent, although the consumer price index has increased by some 36 per cent in that time. With the exception of that well-known welfare State of Queensland, the Commonwealth 
Government remains the Government which pays the lowest compensation to its sick and injured employees. Employees in private industry in Canberra still will be paid more than employees of the present Government. We have had already a report from the Commissioner for Employees Compensation criticising both the level and the efficiency of the Commonwealth employees compensations scheme. After three years the Government is to increase its payments by a measly 12.5 per cent, which puts it below all other States except Queensland, and even below Victoria, which in the past has been notorious in this area. 
In the area of the unemployed without dependants, in the area of low income earners with children, in the area of the poorest of pensioners- those who have an income of $5 apart from their pension and live in rented accommodation- and in the area of Commonwealth employees compensation the Government has been as mean and miserly as it was in the past. I dare say that it will continue to be so in the future except that we believe the Government will not remain the Government for much longer. 
There are other areas of social security which will need questioning and more careful examination once one gets through the economic and sociological jargon in which Budget Papers are usually cast. But in those points I believe that the Opposition is bound to demonstrate the Government's meanness and its unfair treatment of these poor people in our community. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer to the following statement on page 54 of Budget Paper No 1: 
Together, the increased revenue from the crude oil levy and the changes in the personal income tax provisions will make a sizeable claim on household incomes this year. 
Does this statement mean in fact that, in the view of Treasury, taxation will be higher and real income will be lower next year? If it does not mean this, will the Minister explain to the House what it does mean? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
This is an important subject. The Government has announced changes which will be of some importance, particularly in respect of the overseas student program. That program, as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has said, has been important not only to the students who have come to this country but also in respect of our relationships with various countries, particularly those in the Asian and Pacific region. We have no real objection to most of the proposals put forward by the Government, but in view of the lack of detail provided we wish to make some remarks which the Government might consider when preparing detailed proposals. 
It is obvious from the fact that 75 per cent of those students who completed normal studies in this country in the past few years have been successful in achieving resident status that the program is not working in the way that it should be working. Obviously, those students have not gone back to their own countries, sometimes because the skills achieved in this country have not been appropriate to the needs of their native lands. We accept that such a situation cannot remain, but we are slightly disturbed by the apparently rigid proposals put forward by the Minister. It seems to us from the statement that there is an intention to exclude completely applications from overseas students for resident status in Australia. I know that the Minister has stated that such applications will not normally be considered, but I think that he and the Government must consider very carefully not making such proposals too rigid and thus making it too difficult for overseas students to achieve resident status. 
There are cases of hardship. No matter how well planned an education program is, there will be a number of students whose skills cannot be used back in their own countries, either because the course studied was inappropriate or because economic circumstances have changed. There will always be students who suffer persecution for political or other reasons because of a change of government in their countries or because of views they have expressed while in this country. I think it is very important that we do not introduce a rigid set of rules which will prevent students completely from achieving resident status in this country. 
On the matter of the three-year rolling program for adult migrant education, I echo the words of the honourable member for Maribyrnong,  Dr Cass.  Compared with other countries which have taken large numbers of migrants, particularly North America, we in this country have neglected considerably the training of adult migrants, particularly in the English language and in the customs and history of our country. I share  Dr Cass's  view that, although this welcomed increase in expenditure will assist, it probably will not be sufficient. Certainly it will not be sufficient to give us a program of the type which the Canadians have. In a multi-cultural society such as we are developing, it is important that migrants are able to learn English and the customs and laws of our land, whilst retaining their own culture. We can do this only by vastly increasing the program which we have had in the past. I hope that the Government will consider the difficulties which lie ahead in both those areas. Particularly, in the case of overseas students, I hope that the Government will not introduce into the program regulations which are too restrictive. Having said that, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Guilfoyle  as Minister for Social Security and Minister representing the Minister for Finance. If refers to a claim that was made in another place yesterday by the honourable member for Murray,  Mr Lloyd,  that 30 per cent of the public servants who retired last year on medical grounds did so on spurious grounds and with fake medical certificates. The honourable member also called on the Government to take action on what he described as a racket. I ask: Will the Minister assure the House that, if the Government unwisely decides to take the action recommended by  Mr Lloyd,  it will not use the methods that it used last year in another case in New South Wales, that is, call in the Commonwealth Police, arrest people, stop payments and ask questions afterwards? 
-I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
Leave granted. 
-No thing will be good enough for the honourable senator, but let me try. I said this morning, as  Senator Carrick  has pointed out, words to the effect: 'You gave them to  Mr Aarons'.  I admit that; I accepted it after  Senator Carrick  asked me to repeat the questions. I realise that the word 'give 'can be defined very narrowly. Perhaps it would have been more accurate for me in my accusation to have said: You caused to have these documents given to  Mr Aarons'.  I say quite clearly that  Senator Carrick  stood up in this chamber and said that he personally did not give the documents to the ABC or to  Mr Aarons.  He has telephoned the ABC and got from  Mr Talbot  Duckmanton apparently, an assurance that he personally- I believe they are the words he used- did not give the documents to  Mr Aarons  or anyone at the program. I suggest that that is a very narrow explanation from  Senator Carrick.  I ask  Senator Carrick-  1 challenge him- to get up and say that neither he nor anyone on his staff contacted the ABC or its producers over this matter. I repeat that accusation. Maybe I was too narrow, in the heat of the moment at Question Time, in applying such a narrow meaning to the word 'give'. I certainly do not withdraw what I said in the broader sense and  Senator Carrick  cannot either. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesMinister for Education)- by leave- The fact of the matter is that what  Senator Grimes  has now said is equally totally untrue. As I understand it- I can speak only second-hand- the producers of  Broadband,  by their own initiative, went abroad, to the source of the documents in Ljubljana, Yugoslavia, talked to  Dr Wiesenthal,  the Viennese anti-nazi investigator, and totally of their own initiative produced and used those documents. I want to make it clear that neither I nor any member of my staff so did. I will be happy to refer this transcript to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and ask the General 
Manager of the ABC if he will get from the producers of  Broadband  their commentary as to the origin of the documents. I want to make a clear denial in this regard. 
Sitting suspended from 1.3 to 2.15 p.m. 
by leaveThere are two aspects to this matter. First of all, I wish to say that neither I nor my staff was approached for permission to use my pinks. I have no objection to their use. I merely make the point that in the past I have tried to get copies of pinks from Ministers of the Crown in this place and have been refused them and I believe that a check should be made with the person concerned before they are used by anyone else. That is the first point I make. 
The second point is that the overall issue is far too important to be clouded and rendered less clear by a personality clash between  Senator Carrick  and me. I accept  Senator Carrick  's assurances that neither he nor his staff supplied information to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for this program. All of us in this place have our sources. I accepted the sources that I had. I now accept  Senator Carrick  's statement. 
I make one further comment. In the short time that I have been a member of this place I and my colleagues at various times have been called everything from communists by  Senator Lajovic  to all sorts of things by other people. I have never seen a reaction like the reaction from  Senator Carrick  today, even at times when in the heat of the moment he has been called all sorts of things from this side of the chamber. When I made the statement in question I believed it to be true. When I saw the reaction I thought it probably was true. But I now accept  Senator Carrick  's assurance that it was not true. I hope that the very important issue of the activities of people in this country on the extreme right is now investigated properly and is not clouded in the future by any behaviour from me or anyone else. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
I ) How many members of the Greek community in Sydney were charged in connection with alleged Social Security frauds. 
How many people have been charged and have later had those charges withdrawn. 
What were the reasons for the withdrawal of those charges. 
-The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 is a simple piece of legislation containing only three clauses, the third of which is the one of substance. It provides for an increase in patient costs for pharmaceutical benefits from $2.50 to $2.75, that is, a cost of $2.75 for each item on a prescription. This is a 10 per cent increase, which is in line with inflation over the last year. Taken by itself, it would not be seen to be an excessive increase or one which patients in this country would be unable to bear. But when the effects on  various groups of patients in this country are considered, when other actions by the Government in the area of health care are considered, indeed when this Bill is considered in the light of the whole Budget and is put into context in that way, it becomes a more serious piece of legislation. That is the reason for the opposition's amendment. 
The Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on Tuesday and was passed there with a limitation of half an hour put on the debate. It has to be passed again today by this chamber so that the increased charges may operate from 1 September, before we sit again. It is interesting to note, as my colleague  Dr Klugman  noted in another place, that on a matter like this, which has the effect of increasing expenditure by the public, it is terribly important to rush the Bill through as quickly as possible and to introduce the increased charges as quickly as possible. When the 40 per cent contribution of the Government to medical charges is to be removed, it is to be removed similarly, in September, and removed very quickly. But when indexation of pensions is introduced, pensioners can wait 10 months and there is no undue haste to introduce the legislation. On behalf of the Opposition, I move as an amendment to the motion that this Bill be now read a second time: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for the provision of prescriptions free of charge for patients determined in an equitable fashion as being disadvantaged. ' 
It is a most unexpected pleasure to be able to speak about this report tonight. I was not aware that the debate on the report would commence so soon. The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare took on board with some trepidation the task of making an assessment or evaluation of Australia's health and welfare services. The Committee realised that this would be a difficult subject to deal with. We realised that it may take a long time and we realised that the problems in assessing the very varying types of evidence that we expected to get, and in fact did get, would create difficulties in producing a report. What we did not expect, first of all, were the reactions we experienced in the welfare and health service community generally to the fact that we were to look at the state of the evaluation of health and welfare services. Most of us, I believe, certainly did not expect the reaction to the report we experienced once we produced it. I wish to speak only briefly but I wish to repeat the sorts of things that I said outside this chamber after the report was tabled. 
The aim of the exercise was to study the quantity and the quality of the evaluation of health and welfare services in this community. At no stage did the Committee seek to evaluate any particular welfare services, any particular health services or any particular organisation. This was very hard to get across to the welfare community in general. As soon as we started to call for evidence and to question people about the evidence that they were producing we found that there was a great deal of suspicion in the welfare community as to why we should be doing this. It took a considerable time for us to convince the people in the welfare area that we were not sitting down to assess the effectiveness of what they were doing. It was obvious that people saw us as a threat to their funding and a threat to the traditional service that they felt they were giving to the community. 
Once we overcame this difficulty and got it through to the community that we were, in fact, looking at the extent of evaluation of people's services, we managed to get good evidence and to produce what I believe is a valuable report. 
-We lost a year while learning that fact. We lost a year, I believe, reassuring most of the health and welfare community in this country that we were not about tearing them to pieces. We found in general that there had not been much evaluation of any quality of any of the health and welfare service in this community. This does not mean that we found that the health and welfare services of this community were particularly inefficient or particularly efficient. We discovered that in most cases there was no real way to tell one way or the other. 
That was very hard for many people to understand. I remember an editorial in the  Daily Telegraph  which I read early in the morning after the report had been tabled late the previous afternoon. It berated the Committee for wasting three years in order to discover that the welfare services in this country were inefficient. It was plainly obvious that the person who wrote that editorial certainly had not. read the report and certainly had not even read the recommendations in the report. When Committee member's were being interviewed by the Press, attempts were made continually to get us to say that everything in the country was bad and that we were wasting vast sums of money. It took considerable persistence and repetition to convince the interviewers that, in fact, that is not what we had been about. 
Some of the reactions from the public servants in the social welfare field in this country were, to say the least, interesting. We all had something to say about that at the time. Obviously their reaction was that this Committee was threatening their position in society. As one who is not very concerned about threatening people's vested interests and their positions in this society, that did not worry me and it obviously did not worry most of my colleagues on the Committee from both sides of the Parliament. It was disturbing to find that in this community organisations and governments in general are not evaluating what they are doing. They are going along blindly in the old ways, in some cases making assumptions based on values of the past, convincing themselves that they are doing a good job rather than setting out in any objective way to try to measure what they are doing. One of the problems we found was that people are not setting goals or establishing clearly in their own minds the aims of their various organisations. 
One pleasing thing is that there was an upsurge of interest in the evaluation of our health and welfare services, within both the Public Service and the voluntary sector, as a result of the inquiry and even before the report came out. I hope that this interest will continue. One of the most startling things we found repeatedly was the lack of information and the small amount of hard data being collected and evaluated in this community. We had very few means of measuring some of the most basic health and welfare problems because in the past we had not thought that this was necessary. Most reviews and assessments of the report have been favourable, particularly those from people who are active in the field and know what we are about. Unfortunately, some journals have misused the report to confirm their own political or philosophical prejudices about the state of health and welfare delivery in this community. Although the members of the Committee differed considerably in their philosophies and politics, the report was unanimous because we stuck rigidly to our original aim to assess the extent and quality of evaluation rather than to make value judgments on individual projects. 
Although my colleagues and I on this side of the chamber make no bones about our desire to change the distribution of wealth or of power itself in this society, we had no difficulty signing this report. Until we perform the sorts of evaluations that this report recommends we will have difficulty in producing rational and sensible policies to fulfil our aims. I believe that the report is a useful one. I believe that it should be read by anyone involved in the health and welfare area, and that includes everyone in this Parliament. I believe that it should be commented on after it has been read rather than before, as happened in the first few days after its publication. I enjoyed the evidence-gathering and discussions that went into producing the report and I am satisfied with its result. I hope that more people in this very important area, which is an area of huge expenditure in this country, will look seriously at the recommendations in the report in order to develop a more rational, economic and humane welfare and health system in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I wish to raise a matter briefly in the adjournment debate to seek some clarification from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Government concerning the position of many thousands of pensioners and single parent beneficiaries in the community. I do so in the light of a recent incident in Hobart concerning the very difficult problem of what is or is not, in the words of the social services legislation, a bona fide domestic relationship between two people. 
The matter concerns a Hobart divorcee, a  Mrs Dorothy  Clarke, who is the mother of seven children. I wish to make it clear that to my knowledge I have not met  Mrs Clarke  and I have not had any communication with her; nor to my knowledge has anyone else on this side of the chamber had any communication with  Mrs Clarke.  1 say that by way of preface because there is an unfortunate tendency in this community to believe that anyone who takes actions to defend their rights must be doing so for political reasons. In another case involving the Department of Social Security and the High Court in which the plaintiff was known to me, when the matter reached the public arena the person involved was telephoned- one can only say harassed- by conservative members of the lower House and accused of taking political action. I make it clear that I have no personal knowledge of  Mrs Clarke. 

 Mrs Clarke was previously on a widows pension but in October 1977 it was cancelled. She appealed against this cancellation and reviews were sought. Reviews by  Mr Wraith,  then State Director of the Department in Tasmania, and  Mr Lanigan,  the Director-General of Social Security, decided in December 1977 that  Mrs Clarke  was not eligible for the widows pension because she was living in what was called a de facto relationship with a male in the house.  Mrs Clarke,  who is obviously a courageous woman, sought assistance this year from the Australian Legal Aid Office and, as a result, took out a High Court writ against the two officers of the Department and the decision they had made. It was reported in the Hobart  Mercury  of 3 April this year that the writ alleged that her pension was cancelled in October, 1977, and that this cancellation was upheld in reviews by Messrs Wraith and Lanigan; that in December 1977 she reapplied for a pension, but again this was refused by  Mr Wraith  and  Mr Lanigan;  that the reviews were contrary to the principles of natural justice'; that she was not informed of the grounds for cancellation of the pension; and that she was not given the proper opportunity to advance argument and make submissions about why the pension should not be cancelled and why it should not be refused. 
From the time that the pension had been cancelled, the State Department of Social Welfare in fact had paid  Mrs Clarke  a pension to support herself and her children. This was done under the special urgency benefit provisions of the Tasmanian legislation.  Mrs Clarke  denied that she was living in any such relationship and that was the reason for her taking the High Court action. On 3 August this year the Hobart  Mercury  again reported on this case. It reported: 
Faced with a High Court challenge, the department backed down, and has agreed to resume paying her $203.40 a fortnight pension, as well as a lump sum to make up for the 2 1 months since the pension was cancelled. 
According to the  Mercury,  Mrs Clarke  commented: 
I hope this will encourage other people who haven't got any education to go to a lawyer and find out what their rights are. 
The Department backed down and agreed to resume payment of the pension and to make back payments of $9,752.30 to cover the period from October 1977.  Mrs Clarke  received only $795.85. The other $8,900-odd was paid to the State department which had taken up the responsibility of her pension in the time that the Federal department had refused to do so. The case did not get to court. In view of the writ the Government or the Department backed down. On 2 1 August this year I asked the Minister about this case. I will quote from page 13 of the  Hansard  of that day which, by coincidence, is the same page from which  Senator McClelland  quoted. I asked this question: 
I refer the Minister for Social Security to a case of a very courageous mother of seven from Hobart who recently had her widows pension restored and was paid some $10,000 after taking out a High Court writ against officers of the Minister's Department. Was the money paid to this lady in replacement of the pension that she had previously been refused? What action has been taken against those officers who refused her this pension in October 1977 and then allowed the situation to go on until a High Court writ was necessary? Have the guidelines pertaining to bona fide domestic relationships, which were an issue in this case, been changed as a result of the case? If so, how will this affect the thousands of other women in this country who have been refused pensions for similar reasons? 
The Minister replied: 
The first part of the question raised by  Senator G  rimes referred to the money paid to the person concerned in replacement of the pension. If I recall correctly, part of the money was paid to ner. The other part of it, 1 think, may have been reimbursed to the State department . . . 
As far as I am aware, there was no requirement for action to be taken against the officers concerned. This matter concerns the determination of eligibility for a pension: and on grounds which were reasonable to the officers concerned a determination was made. 1 am not aware whether the Director-General has altered the guidelines with regard to pensions as a result of this case. I think that the manual states the terms of eligibility required in the Department's work with regard to all pensions and benefits. 1 am not aware of any need to change these as a result of the particular case that has been referred to by  Senator Grimes. 
I then asked whether it was because of the writ that the pension was paid and the Minister denied that. 1 merely asked the Minister to supply to this Parliament the reasons why $10,000 of public money was paid to  Mrs Clarke  without her having to go to court when she merely took out a High Court writ thereby threatening the Department with action. I ask the Minister again for an explanation of why Messrs Wraith and Lanigan and officers of the Department continued to refuse  Mrs Clarke  her pension from October 1977 until August 1979 and why they suddenly reversed that decision in view of the High Court writ. One can only assume, as  Senator Cavanagh  assumed a moment ago by interjection, that this was done because they knew they would lose and that the implications of the loss of such a case would be considerable. 
Every year hundreds or thousands of women in the community have their pensions taken away from them on the assertion of officers of the Department of Social Security that they are living in a de facto relationship with a man. The Minister says that there is no need, despite this case, to change the guidelines regarding bona fide domestic relationships. I believe that the Minister is in fact saying that women who feel that they have been unjustly deprived of a pension under these circumstances will have to do what  Mrs Clarke  did, that is, take out a High Court writ, obtain legal aid if they are eligible to do so and threaten the Department in this regard in order to have such a decision changed- if the guidelines are to stay the same. I suggest that it is a sorry state of affairs if people in this country have to do that sort of thing to receive their rights under the social services legislation. It is not an inconsiderable thing for anyone to do to take out a High Court writ, even with legal aid, and face the possibility of having to appear in the High Court of Australia. People in these circumstances are dependent on government funds for their sole income and are naturally reluctant to take on the government departments which provide their source of income. They frequently have no knowledge of how to do so and how they can approach the Australian Legal Aid Office in order to receive their rights under the social service legislation. Either the legislation and the guidelines need changing or the officers who deprived this woman of her pension for two years need at least reprimanding or to justify their decision in this case. The only other alternative is for the hundreds or thousands of women in this community who are deprived of their pensions in these circumstances to take out High Court writs to get justice. The situation is a ludricrous one. The Minister's answer is quite unsatisfactory. It is important that this very difficult area- I admit that is is a difficult area- be cleared up so that justice can be done and be seen to be done for the many women involved. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
How many single persons in receipt of unemployment benefit, and without dependants, are aged: (a) under 18 years; (b) from 18 to 20 years; (c) from 21 to 24 years; (d) from 25 to 44 years; (e) from 45 to 54 years; and (f) 55 years and over. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In the absence of any explanation in the Budget Papers or the Budget Speech, can she give us the justification for the Government's failure again this year to increase the unemployment benefit to the unemployed without dependants? Is there any particular percentage of the standard rate that the Government intends to allow this benefit to fall to? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware that the biggest crop spraying organisation in Tasmania- Benders Spreading Services Pty Ltd- has announced that it will have to retrench members of its staff and other employees because of the lack of avgas available to fly its aircraft and that this will have the effect of reducing the amount of spraying and fertilising of crops on properties in Tasmania? In view of this statement, does the Minister have any remarks to make in addition to those made in the last few weeks by him and by the Minister whom he represents about the alleged availability of avgas in this country? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I wish to make some brief remarks about the tabling of the statement. As I have had a copy of the statement for only half an hour and it consists of 100 pages plus 50-odd pages of tables, I have not been in a position to read it. But I wish to congratulate the Department of Social Security on producing this year at least an interim annual report in September, before the consideration of the Estimates. Last time the Department's report did not arrive until 24 November. I wish also to congratulate the Department on the improved quality of the printing of the report this year. The copy of the report I received last year was printed back to front and upside down and it has now become a collector's item in my collection of reports. 
The third matter on which I remark is that I was informed that the reason for producing an interim statement such as this was that an annual report could not be produced until the AuditorGeneral's certificate on the Department's report had been received. One assumes, therefore, that the Auditor-General's certificate has not been received. One wonders why the AuditorGeneral's certificate on the report of the Department of Social Security this year has been delayed. I am told that the reason for tabling an interim statement was to assist us in our consideration of the Department's estimates. I suggest that it is very difficult to use a statement of this size in the consideration of the Department's estimates when one receives a copy of it only about one hour before our consideration of those estimates. I dare say that we will try to get answers to those sorts of questions during the hearings of the Estimates committees. But being, as always, thankful for small mercies, I am grateful for the receipt of even an interim statement so early in the year. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I  present the following petition from 28 1 citizens of Australia: 
Petition to the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that Parents Without Partners (Queensland) begs to draw attention to the discrimination forced upon innocent children by virtue of their circumstances causing emotional trauma which must continue into their adulthood and we petition you to more closely examine the reasons for the breakdown of marriage in this Year ofthe Child. 
Petition received and read. 
-I move: 
Page I, clause 2, sub-clause (2), line 10. leave out * I September 1 979 ', insert ' 1 July 1 979 '. 
We realise that this is only a small gesture, but we move the amendment all the same. We do not believe that we can reasonably in this chamber or elsewhere move for retrospective government expenditure before the present financial year. As we did in 1976, we move that the payments be made from 1 July 1979 to take in the whole of the financial year. The arguments for this amendment were given during the second reading debate. 
I seek some explanation of clause 7, which refers to section 37, sub-section (3) of the principal Act. That section applies to payments which can be made to an injured employee for the alteration of a building or a vehicle, for aids, appliances et cetera which might reasonably be required as a result of that injury and for medical expenses. The clause seeks to add to the section the words:  except where the Commissioner is satisfied that the circumstances of the case justify the excess. 
I seek an explanation of just what that means. Does it mean that the Commissioner will be able, without limit, to add to the $780 provided in the Schedule? Why use the term 'the excess'? To what does 'the excess', which is a specific term, refer? If we are to allow the Commissioner to have what seems to me to be an unlimited power to add to the amount available for that sort of payment, one wonders why we need to insert any limit in the Schedule or to impose any limit on section 37(3) payments under the Act. 
I have no objection at all to the stated motives of the Minister and what she is trying to do; but, as one who has some difficulty at times- including difficulty with this legislation and the social services legislation- in wading through amendments and to a layman, the strange wording of Acts, I find it impossible to understand why it is necessary to give the Commissioner the discretion to expend an unlimited amount of money in helping the rehabilitation and treatment of a compensated employee, and at the same time to write into the Act the figure of $780 which is absolutely meaningless. What we are saying to the Commissioner is: 'You have an upper limit of $780 that you can use for this purpose; but, if you decide that the compensation should be more, you can use what you like'. The mind boggles at why we have to do it that way. I have had no explanation of why we have to do it that way. Surely there is a simpler way of doing things in legislation than that sort of method. 
I do not believe that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and, through her, her advisers have given us an explanation. I reiterate that we have written into an Act an upper limit for payment for other aids to daily living apart from medical expenses, et cetera. We have in the Bill an amendment which says that where the Commissioner is satisfied he may exceed that limit by apparently any amount he likes. We are told now by the Minister that the figure of $780, the upper limit written into the Schedule and to be written into section 37 (3), is meant as a guide to the people who may be seeking these other aids to daily living. The Minister's words were to this effect: 'I suppose it may be said that that is what it is all about'. I suggest to the Minister that legislation should be more specific than that and that we should not have a lot of irrelevant words in legislation. 
If we have a limit and then an expression which says that the Commissioner may go over that limit to any amount, if he likes, I suggest that the words are irrelevant. When those words are so couched that they say 'is satisified that the circumstances of the case justify the excess' and we have no definition of 'the excess'- not 'an excess', not 'some excess', but 'the excess'- I suggest that  Senator Cavanagh  is justified in being suspicious about why these words have been added. I just cannot accept the proposition that the addition of the words is justified somehow by the fact that there is a right of appeal against the Commissioner's decision. As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, it is all right to appeal against the Commissioner's decision up to $780 because then he has to make his decision on reasonable grounds, but after $780 all he has to say is that he is satisfied. Anyhow, who would want to appeal in those circumstances? 
If a person appeals against the decision he has to demonstrate that the Commissioner was unjustified in not being satisfied. I suggest that that is always an impossible situation. I will accept the Minister's assertion that her motives are pure, that her Government's motives are pure and that perhaps even her Department's motives are pure. But one wonders why legislation which is already complicated has to be cluttered by what seems to us on this side to be a nonsensical addition of words, for which we really have had no explanation, except, I suppose, that it may be said that it serves as a guide to the person involved. If the reason is that it is necessary to do it in this way I make an appeal, for the sanity of all of us who must deal with this legislation in the future, that it be simplified. I am sure that it can be. 
-I rise once more not to extend the proceedings but just to clarify my view, and I think the Opposition 's view, following the remarks of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  My colleagues and I, I am sure, are not opposed to the extension of the Commissioner's power in this area. We welcome the proposal that more than $780 can be expended on other aids to daily living to compensate workers who have suffered injury at work. The Opposition has no objection to that provision at all. I have an objection to and question putting into an Act proposed section 37 sub-section 3, as it will be from now, which says on the one hand that an upper limit of $780 applies to the Commissioner, but that on the other hand he can go over that limit to the extent that he likes if he is satisfied. I have an objection- the same objection that  Senator Cavanagh  has- that up to $780 a person can appeal on the ground that the Commissioner was or was not reasonable in his decision, but over $780 a person has to prove that the Commissioner was or was not satisfied, which I think is an impossible situation. 
-Satisfied of the circumstances of the case, which I think is an impossible situation to appeal on. I cannot see why the limit of $780 was not removed in view of the fact that there are only 22 cases. My final plea- I repeat it- is in respect of people who have to deal with this sort of legislation and the social services legislation which gets cluttered up with unnecessary amendments of this type which add verbiage to it and make it difficult to interpret.I rest my case there and I do not even ask for a reply. 
I suggest that it would be sensible- the Committee has adopted a similar course in the past- to include in consideration of clause 16 a consideration of the Schedule. Clause 16 refers to the Schedule. 
As I have said, clause 16 refers to the Schedule which lists the amounts of compensation payable. The Opposition has several points to make on this situation and an amendment to move. It has been circulated. The gist of the Opposition 's objection to the Bill and the cause for the amendment moved at the second reading stage is that, in fact, the increases in these payments are three years late. In that time, the consumer price index has increased by some 36 per cent. According to this side of the chamber, the minimum wage has increased by 29 per cent and according to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  it has increased by 22.9 per cent. But the payments under the Schedule have been increased only by 12 per cent or thereabouts. The Opposition sees no justification for such a low increase after three years of delay in increasing payments under the compensation legislation which, prior to 1975, were increased annually. 
The result of this increase has been that no matter how one compares the payments, they have dropped and people have not been compensated for the fixed payment they have received for the last three years, despite inflation. The payment for a single individual is now some 72 percent of the minimum wage. In 1974 it was 84 per cent, and for years before that it was 84 per cent of the minimum wage. The Commonwealth payments are now the lowest or the second lowest, depending on which State one looks at, in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. We think that it is pure, basic justice that people who have waited for three years for an increase should at least be compensated for the full cost of living increase since 1976. lt is quite wrong that it has been delayed for so long, but we believe that if there is to be an increase it should compensate for that cost of living rise. Another factor is that even in 1976, when the rates were increased, they did not then compensate for the inflation rate beween 1 975 and 1 976. 
The second point- one which I must take issue with the Minister- is that the effect of the new Schedule, by adding the words 'or such higher amount as is prescribed' after each amount, is that in the future the Government will be able to increase the amount by statutory regulation instead of legislation. The Opposition would prefer that compensated employees be treated the same as pensioners, beneficiaries and Commonwealth employees, and have their payments indexed- in this case, indexed twice yearly. In reply to  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister, I believe quite unfairly, said: 'But  Senator, you  would  not vote  against a statutory regulation which increased an amount of payment to a compensated employee '. 
Yes, that is right. I think  Senator Cavanagh  anticipated the Minister in saying that. Of course we would not, but we also cannot amend or increase such a regulation. That is very important. We are also reliant on the Government to introduce such regulations before such payments are increased. The present Government has not increased such payments for three years, despite a 35 per cent increase in the consumer price index. In view of the fact that the Opposition's second reading amendment failed, the amendment which I am about to move does no more than increase the basic payment amounts by 35 per cent instead of the 12 per cent by which the Covernment would increase it. Nowhere in the Budget Papers, in the statement by the Minister announcing the increases, in the second reading speech or in the summing up speech of the second reading debate tonight has there been an attempt by the Government to justify increasing these payments by only 12 per cent in view of the fact that there has been such a huge increase in the consumer price index since 1975. That is why the Opposition presses at least the amendment I am about to move. The Opposition complains that it is not an insignificant change to the legislation, to change that legislation so that in future increases can be made by regulation. 
If it was good enough for the Minister to mention in her second reading speech that clauses 12, 13, 14 and 15 are technical amendments in view of the Superannuation Act, it would have been good enough for the Minister to tell us that she was changing this legislation so that in future changes could be made by statutory regulation. 
In fact, this was discovered only because I wondered why those words were added in the Schedule and I made inquiries of departmental officers. The reason why such a significant change does not merit a mention in the second reading speech or in the summary of the legislation raises one's suspicions. The more I become associated with  Senator Cavanagh,  the more suspicious I get. Why should not such a thing be mentioned in the legislation? Is it that the Minister hoped that it would slip through; Is it that the Minister did not know and the officers hoped that it would slip through; or, is it that the Minister did not like to point out to this Parliament, and to this chamber of this Parliament, that in fact what she is doing is taking away from the Parliament the legislative power to debate these increases when they come through? For that reason, I move: 
Page 6, the Schedule, leave out the Schedule, insert the following Schedule: 
SCHEDULE 

<graphic href="082232197909190_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

I rise again just to make it clear, in view of the remarks of  Senator Mason,  what my amendment does. My amendment seeks to insert a new schedule. It was drafted on advice from the  Clerk.  It has the effect of leaving out the words 'or such higher amount as is prescribed '. It is quite clear to me and I think to  Senator Harradine  that the effect of these words is to allow the Government, as I said before, to make further increases by regulation. I am afraid that I am not as trusting as  Senator Harradine.  In view of the assurances of the Government in the past to pensioners on indexation, I cannot accept the assurance from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)-  I am sure she will not give it- that the amounts will be increased quarterly, half yearly or yearly in the future. 
The Opposition believes that the injured employees, the compensated employees, should be compensated at least as adequately as they were in 1976, which is the basis for changing the amounts, and that they should be compensated the same as workers and pensioners are compensated by having their payments indexed by law of this Parliament every six months. That is why I have moved the amendment which has the effect of taking out the words 'or such higher amount as is prescribed '. As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, we do not want to be in the situation where the power of deciding how much these people will get resides in the Executive and the only power that a member of this Parliament will have will be to disallow that amount and not to amend it upwards. That is an unsatisfactory situation. 
We will resist and continue to resist the proposal that the Minister put in her second reading speech that in future the Government intends, wherever fixed amounts are involved, to change legislation so that those amounts can be changed by statutory regulation. We believe it is the right of members of this Parliament to peruse such amounts and to suggest increases if necessary. If we have the numbers in either chamber or both chambers we can seek to increase the amounts. But we should not be left almost in a blackmail situation where the only thing we can do is refuse the increases which is something that none of us would ever do no matter how small or paltry the increases were. 
I will speak briefly in pursuing the Opposition's amendment. Nothing which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said convinces us that we so should withdraw our amendment. I merely make the point that we believe that what this Government decided- I stress the fact that this Government made the decisionwas good enough for the injured employees of the Commonwealth Government receiving compensation in 1976 is good enough for them now. The only way to compensate those people for what has happened economically in this country since then is to increase their payments by the amount of the consumer price index increases to retain the value of those payments, even though the recipients will not regain the losses they have accrued over those years by a failure to increase those payments at least annually since then. 
We are talking about legislation which the Government claims will cost $ 1 m. If the Opposition 's amendment were accepted, it would cost probably $2m or $3m. We are not talking about something which will break this country or blow out the deficit; we are talking about something which will pay injured workers compensation. 

 Senator G u i 1  f oy le -  Pa ce - se 1 1 i n g compensation. 
It is absolute nonsense to call it pace-setting compensation when after the legislation is enacted, Western Australia, South Australia, Tasmania and Victoria, when its amending legislation is enacted, will still be ahead of the Commonwealth in this area. 
-I said 'in this area'. Those States will remain ahead of the Commonwealth in this area, as they always have been. The Minister drew  our  attention to the fact that some exemployees will be entitled to receive superannuation benefits and some to partial social security benefits. Of course they will. Some will have savings and some will be better off than others. We are concerned about the workers who have other assistance but not as concerned as we are about those workers- they do exist- who rely on compensation payments. If they are single they will rely on $90 a week. If they have a couple of kids they will rely on $ 120-odd a week. They are people who already have disabilities. They are people who, therefore, have to meet all the costs associated with those disabilities. They are the people we are worried about. 
The total additional Budget expenditure involved if this amending legislation is passed will be $lm or $2m. When we have governments which purchase Boeing 707 aircraft for $40m to fly Prime Ministers around the world and all the other expenditure which is indulged in in this country, we should not be quibbling about whether we will give victims who are recipients of compensation payments a 30 per cent increase in their payments, which represents the increase in the cost of living since 1976, or a 12 per cent increase in their payments, which is a figure which has been drawn out of the air and which, we suspect is designed to keep the Commonwealth payments at the middle or the lower end of the States' scales. I think that we are being mean and unkind if we treat people in that way and if people such as  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Harradine, Senator Mason  and I do not defend the rights of the people who receive those payments to receive justice. 
-The Opposition has the same objections to the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill as it had to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill. We do not wish to delay the proceedings of the House or to go through the ritual, in view of the intransigence of Government senators in the face of the arguments which have been put to them. I merely wish to back the words of  Senator Cavanagh  in regretting that Government senators would not support the sentiments, if not the actions, of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I wish to point out also that throughout the debate, from before 5 o'clock this afternoon, only one Government senator was willing to speak on this legislation, and that was the Minister herself. No one would give her any support. As she could give no justification for the Government's decision, I assume that that was the reason that no one on the Government side was willing to attempt to support her. I register the Opposition's regret that the Government has done in the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill (No. 2) what it did in the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill. In registering our objections I leave the debate at that. 
-The debate on these Bills, the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1979 and the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979, has been long delayed. For three years, the representatives of the Commonwealth employees organisations, the Opposition and many other people in the community have been urging the Government to take action to give justice to its injured and sick employees. The Government has not done so. For three years, these people have had their income eroded by inflation and the failure of the 
Government to act on their behalf. In this case, justice delayed is certainly justice denied. Finally, when action has been taken by the Government, that action is inadequate. It does not compensate the people concerned for past injustices. The payments provided for in this legislation will quickly be eroded by the inflation rate which is predicted by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard ) and the Treasury in the Budget Papers. 
Until the emergence of the present Government, increases to Commonwealth employees and seamen who had been injured and were receiving compensation were annual. In 1975,  Senator Wheeldon,  the then Minister for Social Security, had prepared legislation for the annual increase in compensation payments. As honourable senators are aware, there was a constitutional crisis. It was not until September 1976 that the Government got around to granting an increase which was, even then, less than that required to compensate for inflation. Three years have now gone by. Despite requests from the Government employee organisations and repeated questions from the Opposition nothing has been done. At last the Government has decided to increase the benefit. In that time, in those three years, the consumer price index has increased by 36 per cent or thereabouts. The Government, in this legislation, is only applying increases of 12 per cent or thereabouts to the payments to its injured and sick employees. The people who are being given this paltry increase are not wealthy individuals. They are injured; they are sick; and some of them have been living on $80 a week for the past three years. I might add that that is the lowest weekly payment of any State in this country with the exception of Victoria, which is about to increase its payments to $105 a week. 
These people are the widows and the children of deceased employees who are being given more than their fair share of the burden of the Government's tight economic policies and mean-minded social approach. Many of these people are disabled. Many suffer disfigurement and disabilities. Yet neither in the second reading speech of these Bills nor in the Budget Papers does the Government give any justification for its miserable behaviour, for the long delays and for the failure to increase these payments by the full amount. 
Also in the Bills there are some technical amendments which flow on from changes to the associated superannuation legislation and to simplify applications to be made to the Commissioner. The Opposition does not object to these. Another amendment in the legislation brings into line the definition of a child in this legislation with the social services legislation. Again the Opposition does not oppose this. There seems, to the Opposition, to be another change which is not explained in the second reading speech. We hope that we will get an explanation from the Minister for Social Services  (Senator Guilfoyle)  either in her summing-up in the second reading debate or in the Committee stage. We believe that, if the change is as it would seem to be, and as I have been advised by officers of her Department it is, we should have had an explanation of it in the second reading speech. 
We are advised that the change in the wording in Schedule 1 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) legislation has, in fact, the effect of enabling future increases to be made by regulation rather than introducing legislation into this Parliament for that purpose. We believe that in compensation payments the Commonwealth Government should join with all the States and introduce indexation for compensated employees. We believe that, if pensioners and others get indexation, certainly recipients of compensation payments should get indexation. Such indexation would bring some measure of justice. We certainly believe that, if the Government introduces a change, taking from the Parliament the legislative power to change rates and makes it into a regulation, it deserves at least a mention in the second reading speech. We require some explanation, if that is the situation, why it was done in this way. The Opposition moves an amendment to the second reading stage of this legislation to try to impress upon the Government the need to bring in some changes, to bring some justice to the poeple whom it should be concerned about, its own employees. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bills be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for: 
an increase in payments in line with the Consumer Price Index since 1 976; and 
b ) automatic twice-yearly indexation of payments. 
The Australian Labor Party has always been interested in compensation. It has always been of great concern to us that workers in this community, be they in public life or private industry, should be compensated properly. It is for this reason that we are in favour of a national compensation scheme. We are not necessarily in favour, as the Minister would like to imply when she speaks, of the scheme produced by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse. What we are in favour of is a scheme which removes the fault principle from compensation, the delay and the uncertainty and reduces the cost of the present inefficient scheme. Not only the Australian Labor Party is interested in the introduction of such a scheme. The Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, hardly a radical body, is also in favour of such a scheme. ACROD, the Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled, is also in favour of such a scheme, as are the various councils of social service. 
The delays in the present scheme inhibit effective rehabilitation of people who have been injured at work. The uncertainty of the present scheme deprives the injured of justice, the cost adds to the burden of both the employer and the employee in the community and the litigation involved adds to the burden so much that in the fields of workers compensation and road accident compensation, private firms are more and more getting out and State governments are having to take over because of the present unsatisfactory situation. The Senate Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, of which I was a member, looked at the clauses of the Woodhouse proposal. It did not come down in favour of those proposals but, at the same time, it supported radical reform of the present compensation system in this country. In paragraph 1.21 of the Committee's report on the clauses of the National Compensation Bill, the Committee made the following comment on Australia's present scheme: 
It is clear that the compensation systems - 
The ones we have now-  arc random in their coverage, often provide inadequate compensation and can give rise to inequities. The Committee is concerned that existing social service benefits for sickness are inadequate and that compensation for injuries is effectively limited to work-caused injuries suffered by employees, to some victims of criminal acts and to those victims of highway accidents who can establish fault in other persons and are not disqualified by want of care on their part. The Committee believes that recent examples- for example, in Victoria and Tasmania- to reform the existing system remain too limited in their scope. 
That remains my view, as I am sure it remains the view of all members of that Committee who spent so long looking at Australia's inadequate scheme. A nationalist-conservative government in New Zealand introduced such a scheme. There is nothing new about the concept of a national compensation scheme, but I believe the Government is hung up over constitutional difficulties and, at the beck and call of its mentors in the insurance industry, it has failed to take action. On repeated occasions since 1 976  Senator Guilfoyle  has assured  Senator Wheeldon  and me that a national compensation proposal was being looked at by the Government, but we have heard nothing despite repeated requests. Meanwhile, the escalating costs of workers compensation premiums actually prevent small businesses and others from employing workers. 
The compensation scheme in this country remains a mess, as it was in 1974 and 1975, and something has to be done about it. What can we expect when we look at the way this legislation treats employees of the Government. After an initial 26 weeks of sick pay, a worker goes on to compensation. If he had been injured three years ago, he would have stayed on the same $80 per week whilst his colleagues would have had at first quarterly indexation and then half-yearly indexation of their wages. Surely it is time that the sick and the maimed received the same protection from indexation as do the hale and healthy. The legislation is late, and that should not be allowed to occur again. But, it is also mean in that the increases are inadequate, and that should not happen again. For that reason, the amendment says that the legislation should be withdrawn, that the basic payments should be upgraded to compensate for inflation since 1 976 and should then be indexed to ensure that they are increased, taking away the matter from governments which would refuse to increase the payments. 
It is said by the Government that this legislation will cost a million dollars. If the amendment costs $3m, it is a drop in the ocean compared to the extravagances of, say, the expenditure of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on his Boeing 707 aircraft. This is a very small amount of money in the overall Budget and it is certainly an amount which should not be removed from injured employees. As I have said, increases have been only in the order of 12 per cent, compared to a 35 per cent or 36 per cent increase in the consumer price index since 1975. The weekly payment of $90 provided for in this legislation is 72 per cent of the current minimum wage, compared to the 84 per cent that it was in 1974 and 83 per cent in 1978. It is lower than all the States except Queensland, and if the Government continues with its present practice of upgrading it only every three years, it will fall further behind the States. The lump sum benefit in this legislation becomes only $28,000 a year. That is equal to the lowest of the States, and as those States index their payments, they will rapidly get ahead. 
The problem is that the actions of the Government in fact have discriminated against its long term disabled employees, and their widows and children. They will continue to be at the risk of government action like this unless we first of all look at the overall situation to try to improve the compensation scheme and unless we do something about protecting these people, as we have protected the pensioners and beneficiaries in this country by introducing automatic indexation. Three years ago, it was thought that people had been badly treated because they had missed out on one year's increase. Three years later, we find that they have missed out on three years' increase, and the increase provided for this time is inadequate. There are difficulties with some of the clauses of the legislation, and we will look at them in the Committee stage. The Opposition believes that the only sensible thing to do is what is set out in its amendment: Withdraw this legislation, look at it again through the eyes of the people who are affected and with a sense of justice for the people who have been affected, and quickly- it would not take long- bring it back again, providing proper payments for those involved. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to the report this year of the Auditor-General which again alleges overpayments by her Department of pensions, benefits and family allowances. Does the Minister consider that the measures taken last year as a result of the AuditorGeneral's report have been successful? In view of overpayments again this year, what methods does she intend to introduce this year to try to cut down on this problem? 
My question to the Attorney-General refers to an answer he gave at a meeting of an Estimates committee on 18 September when questioned about the amount of public money which had been paid to  Mr Rofe,  Q.C., in relation to certain court cases in Sydney. The Minister said that he would not give details of the amount of money paid to  Mr Rofe  on the basis that it was confidential and that moneys paid to counsel on an individual basis should be confidential. I ask the Minister: Does this mean that questions to him on the Notice Paper about this matter will not be answered? Does this mean that barristers, of all people in the community, are immune from having payments to them from the public purse subject to scrutiny by this Parliament? If that is so why should payments to barristers and similar payments be beyond the scrutiny of this Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
How many persons characterised as unemployable were taken off unemployment benefit during the year 1978-79. 
How many such persons were transferred to (i) sickness benefit: (ii) special benefit; or (iii) pensions. 
3 ) If these statistics are not kept, what is the reason. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that an instruction has gone out from her Department that in future spouses of all applicants for sickness and other social security benefits will have to attend for personal interview at the Department? If this is a fact, why has this instruction gone out? How will it affect the work volume of staff in the Department? Will other areas of the departmental officers' activities be affected, and in what way? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
How many additional senior citizens' centres were funded in each State under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969, during the year 1978-79. 
What were the number and cost of these projects in each electorate. 
I present the following petition from 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully urge the Commonwealth Government to: 
.  Increase all pensions and benefits to above the Poverty Line. 
Establish and fund a national emergency aid system. 
Agree to the introduction of a guaranteed minimum income. 
Abolish the work test on Unemployment Benefit. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I refer the Minister representing the Prime Minister to the reported statement of the Prime Minister that unemployed people are the duller and less motivated people in each age group in the community and that he doubted that the Catholic bishops supported the statement of the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, in the booklet  Beyond Unemployment.  I ask the Minister: Can he give any evidence to back either of these statements? Does he think that the former statement will do anything to assist the alienation that the unemployed in our society undoubtedly feel and have demonstrated in the last week? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) How many persons illegally receiving unemployment benefit were successfully prosecuted during the period 1 975 to 1979 for (a) giving false information about income; (b) giving false information about work status; (c) receiving several cheques under different names; (d) appropriating cheques belonging to other people; and (e) other reasons. 
How many successful prosecutions against persons illegally receiving unemployment benefit were in respect of persons who had previous convictions relating to fraud. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the joint task force established to study the case for a uniform Commonwealth pension for lone parents reported to either the Commonwealth Government or the Council of Social Welfare Ministers; if so, is the report to be made public. 
Do all Australian States agree that payments under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act 1968 should be a Commonwealth responsibility. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
1 ) Are certain hospitals refusing to treat patients in their outpatients clinics and instead referring them to general practitioners; if so, in which States. 
Has the Government reached any understanding with State Governments on the right of a person to choose outpatient rather than private treatment. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What progress has been made in relation to the request by the Council of Social Welfare Ministers for the provision of grants through a guaranteed fund on a continuing basis for emergency relief, as specified in March 1 979. 
Will the guidelines for the provision of such emergency relief be made available to local government and voluntary organisations which may wish to apply for such funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
What have been: (a) the total costs between I March 1978 and 31 August 1979; (b) travel costs, both (i) international and (ii) within Australia, between I March 1978 and 31 August 1979; and (c) courts costs since the present hearings began in Sydney, incurred by the Commonwealth Police in respect of the alleged Greek fraunds in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1 979: 
1 ) Does any section of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs investigate the social consequences of youth unemployment, such as ill health, drug abuse, crime and suicide. 
Arc any papers or statistics on the social consequences of youth unemployment, prepared within the Department, available to Parliament or the public. 
inhere is no work in this area being undertaken by the Department will the Minister authorise full-scale inquiries into these important matters so that the consequences of prolonged unemployment and the accessibility to, and rates of, unemployment benefit can be assessed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to a question asked of her yesterday by  Senator Melzer.  It was pointed out that the Victorian Minister for Community Welfare Services had announced that the State Government would refuse to pay pensions under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act as from 1 January next year. The Minister replied that this would be considered at a conference of administrators from the various States at the end of this month. I refer also to her reply yesterday to a question on notice from me in which she stated that this matter would actually be finalised at a meeting of the Council of Social Welfare Ministers in March 1980. 1 ask the Minister: What will happen to the women in Victoria who otherwise would have been paid pensions under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act between January and March next year if this matter is not to be finalised until March next year? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Did the Government announce the establishment of the Child Accident Prevention Foundation of Australia, to mark the International Year of the Child. 
Was it announced that $50,000 of the grant would be paid immediately by the Government. 
3 ) How much of the grant has the Government paid: 
in 1978-79; and 
1979-80. 
To whom has this money been paid, and for what projects. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether there is an arrangement between the Department of Social Security and the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs under which unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for over a year are referred back to the Department of Social Security to be classified as probably unemployable and asked to apply instead for a special benefit. If this is so, could the Senate be given some details of this arrangement? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
How many persons received fares assistance during 1 978-79 for work inquiries or work interviews. 
) What was the cost of providing this assistance. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) How much money has been issued in over-the-counter cheques for special benefit; (a) from 1 September 1978 to 31 December 1978; (b) from 1 January 1979 to 31 March 1979; (c) from 1 April 1979 to 30 June 1979; and (d) from 1 July 1979 to 31 August 1979. 
What was the delay in processing special benefit applications in the following periods (a) January to June 1978; (b) July to December 1978; and (c) January to June 1979. 
How is it known, if this information is not available, that delays in paying social security benefits, including special benefit, are not the cause of other agencies having to pay out funds to support people who are eligible to receive social security payments. 
How much of the estimate for the payment of special benefit in 1979-80 is expected to be used for emergency relief. 
: asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) Was the three year program of aged persons accommodation announced on 20 May 1976, to run from 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1979. 
Was the amount of $225m promised for those three years. 
When will the amount of $225m be spent. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
How many additional beds were provided under: (a) the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act 1954; and (b) the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972, in each of the years 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It follows the question asked by  Senator Lajovic.  I ask: Is it not a fact that Australia's position in world taxation scales and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's taxation scales has in fact varied little in the last eight years, in that it has varied only one or two points? What do the facts presented by  Senator Carrick  mean when one considers the campaign at present being conducted in certain sections of the Press of this country claiming that we are among the very highly taxed countries of the world? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Quarantine Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. The legislation provides for the regularisation of the compensation procedures to be used when goods or animals must be destroyed or damaged in the interests of preventing the introduction into this country or spread of exotic diseases or pests. It also gives to quarantine officers proper powers to inspect imported goods and to search premises when breaches of quarantine regulations are suspected. In passing, I point out that the Bill also repeals a provision of the principal Act. Air travellers are no longer obliged to report any illness that occurs to them up to 14 days after they arrive in this country. This provision was completely impracticable as over 400 people arrive by aeroplane each day. My colleague in another place- the honourable member for Prospect,  Dr Klugman-  pointed out that when he was in practice he did not know that the obligation existed. I must confess that I was in exactly the same position. 
It is essential that expert quarantine officers in this country have the powers given to them in this legislation, powers which are at present confined largely to the police and Customs officers. They need these powers if they are to protect this country by quarantine measures, as this country needs to be protected. Our isolation, the great distances from the sources of exotic diseases and pests and the long duration of travel involved in reaching our shores in past years have given us relative protection from some of the world 's great scourges- scourges which affect humans, animals and plants. That also made us unfamiliar with the effects of most of these diseases or pests. I believe that it bred a complacency in our population which still exists about the possibility of these imported agencies affecting us. Incidentally, we have a population of humans, animals and, I suspect, plants which has also not been exposed to many of the potentially disastrous epidemics of various types. So our resistence in many cases is low. The onset of greater air travel, the cheapness of air travel, the incredible size of some of the aircraft which come to this country and the ability of these aircraft to carry a greater and larger variety of goods and animals give us every reason not to be complacent. The increasing number of refugees from our near north adds to the problems which will face us in the future. 
Health and agricultural authorities in this country have always been acutely aware of the dangers to our population and to our agricultural industries in general from the importation of overseas pests and diseases. Our quarantine regulations are tough. They have always been tough, and they must remain so. But the costs are high, and the costs will continue to be high. Parliamentarians and the departments involved must be in a position to educate both the people of this country and visitors to it as to the reasons for the necessity for such stringent regulations and why we have to take the stringent actions we sometimes have to take to protect our livelihood and our population. We have an almost impossibly long boundary, we have vast unpopulated areas and we have a wide variety of animals and plants, both native and introduced, which are capable of carrying and transmitting the various diseases and pests which we have managed to avoid in the past. 
These factors also mean that the cost to our country of adequate quarantine protection will remain high and we, as a community, have to pay for it. We have to convince the members of our community of the need to pay for it. Education in this area is always difficult. Experience is the great educator and, as I said, through the generations we have not had the personal experience of some of the difficulties which could beset us if we relaxed our guard in this area. Our period of complacency should have ended some time ago. One hopes that it will end now with the introduction of pests such as the Sirex wasp and the European wasp, amongst the insects; the lucerne eating aphids; Newcastle disease, of which we have had a couple of outbreaks amongst poultry; equine metritis amongst horses; and the regular appearance in the last few years of a few cases of cholera. Each case of cholera cropped up as a result of travel by aircraft from our near neighbours to the north. 
The ease with which infected material can arrive in this country in humans and in baggageinfection can be imported by people, bent on profit at any price to the community, illegally, introducing such easily concealable material as animal semen- makes life very difficult for our quarantine officers. In fact one can say that the odds are stacked in favour of those who would disregard our regulations and who would have no regard for the dangers to which they submit this country by their actions. These dangers are far too great for quarantine to be taken other than very seriously in this country and for this reason legislative changes of the type brought forward now are very important. 
There are several dangers quite close to us which must be watched carefully. I think that in the debate on the last amendment to the Quarantine Act I spoke about one of the greatest menaces which is worrying everybody in the world today- rabies. That disease is advancing throughout the world on two fronts. One front is across Europe towards the French coast where it is being carried largely by the native animals of that area- foxes, badgers and others- but also by people who unwisely choose to ignore the quarantine regulations of various countries. On another front rabies is advancing across South East Asia. It is endemic in many of the countries of South East Asia. The simple fact is that if this disease, one of the worst infectious diseases known to man, reaches our shores the chances of controlling it are extremely remote. We have any number of animals who can transmit the disease. We have vast areas through which they can transmit it. Unless we were extremely fortunate and confined it very quickly to a very small area we would have no hope in the world of eradicating it from our country. But the human animal being what he is, people still attempt to introduce into this country pets which potentially can carry rabies. They are foolish, they are misguided and they must be prevented from doing so. They must be prevented at almost all costs from breaching the quarantine barriers that we have set up. 
Another problem is that the other scourges, typhoid, typhus, plague, malaria, et cetera, are always present at some places in the world. The only one which appears to have been eradicated is smallpox. These diseases are always present and ready to break out at times when public health facilities and provisions break down and when the general hygiene of the community fails. Of course, this happens in time of conflict, and we are certainly nowhere near ending conflicts in our own area or in any other parts of the world. When health facilities break down in this way the danger to this country is very real and we must guard against it. 
As I said, the costs of quarantine services are very high, but they are very small when compared with the potential cost of the introduction of some diseases. I notice that in the  Bills Digests  it is stated that the potential cost of foot and mouth disease breaking out in this country is over $ 100m. One can imagine the potential costs in money and in human suffering if some of the other diseases and pests known to man get through our quarantine barrier. We need an efficient service. We need the best means to prevent breaches in out quarantine defences. The best defence is to increase to 100 per cent, if possible, the chance of people committing breaches being detected. As long as people think they can get away with breaching our regulations they will try to do so. If we can increase our guard in this area so that the risk of people being detected is very high, they may stop trying. I suppose that some will always try. It is for this reason that I and the Opposition support the legislation. We hope that the changes to the principal Act have the desired effect of making our quarantine service a more efficient one by giving our quarantine officers the ability to detect breaches more efficiently at a time when their job is becoming increasingly difficult because of the rapid increases in world travel to this area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
What proportion of eligible 18-20 year olds have chosen not to enrol as electors in each year since 1 976. 
What is the Electoral Office's explanation of their failure to go on the electoral roll. 
What surveys have been done of the probable numbers of 1 8-20 year olds, migrants and Aboriginals who are eligible to vote but are not enrolled. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he or his departmental officers have at any time been asked to advise the Minister for Industrial Relations and his Department on the constitutional validity of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act presently before the Parliament. If so, on what date did that occur? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the Social Services Amendment Bill shortly to be debated by this Parliament. I refer particularly to the provision in that Bill which provides that an individual will be refused unemployment or special benefit if he is out of work as a result of industrial action by others. Will the Minister provide for honourable senators and members details of the guidelines which will be used for making decisions as to who is or is not in a union, on whom will lie the onus of proof and what proof will be accepted by the Director-General or his delegates as to who is or is not in a union? I ask for this because I think it is important in considering this legislation that we also consider the associated guidelines which will be used by the Minister's officers in applying the legislation. 
I indicate on behalf of the Opposition that it does not agree to that proposal. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- As the suggestion is not agreed to, that course will not be followed. We will debate the Migration Amendment Bill. 
-Clause 4 sub-clause (b) amends section 6 of the principal Act by inserting new sub-section (6a). Subsection (6) of the original Act provides: 
An entry permit that is intended to operate as a temporary entry permit shall be expressed to authorize the person to whom it relates to remain in Australia for a specified period only, and such a permit may be granted subject to conditions. 
I would have thought that the term 'subject to conditions' would have made that a fairly broad sub-section in any Act. We now have added what seems to be a qualifying sub-section. Under new sub-section (6a) restrictions may be imposed with regard to-   the work that may be performed by the holder in Australia, including restrictions on performing any work, or work other than specified work or work of a specified kind, without the permission, in writing, of an authorized officer. 
I wonder why, in view of the very broad nature of sub-section (6) of section 6 of the original Act, it is necessary to add this qualifying sub-section. What sort of work is envisaged by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  the Government, or the Department, when it writes in such a complicated subclause in order to modify the Act in that way? One would have thought that any restrictions on work or anything else would have been completely open to the Government under the original section. It would seem that what is proposed is simply complicating the Act with added verbiage. I seek an explanation of the need to insert the additional sub-section (6a). 
-The very broad sub-section 6 (6) of the original Act, provides for the Government to lay down any conditions whatsoever, as I understand it, for the authorisation or handing out of a temporary entry permit. Does the legislation mean that only a person on a temporary permit who disobeys the work conditions which the Government may put on can be penalised? As I understand it, from what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said, the Government can lay down any conditions for a temporary permit and the person with the temporary entry permit can disobey any of those conditions whatsoever without penalty, except the work conditions. I wonder why it is necessary to single out the work conditions. Why would it not be suitable to impose a penalty for disobeying any of the conditions that are laid down? 
I suggest that it may be advisable in the future to amend section 6 to say something like: 'Subject to conditions relating to work as set out in subsection (6a) or relating to the time of the permit'. I suggest that it is quite wrong, particularly when no penalties are to be provided, to have in any Act such a broad sub-section which gives the Government wide powers to restrict people's activities in the country. 
I am sorry to sound pedantic, but could I have a clarification of the charges for cable information? If a migrant welfare organisation or any welfare organisation acting on behalf of a migrant makes an inquiry that requires information to be sought by cable, does this mean that either that welfare organisation or the client will be charged? I think it is an important point. I think it would be quite wrong for this community to have two groups of people: Members of parliament who get things free and legitimate groups, such as welfare organisations, who are charged. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that a few weeks ago the Department of Transport granted a licence to Air Tasmania to fly between Sydney, Flinders Island and Tasmania? Is it a fact that, as a result of the granting of this licence, Air Tasmania went ahead and spent thousands of dollars getting air terminals and putting out advertising material to conduct this service? Is it also a fact that last week the Department of Transport withdrew this licence without warning? If so, could the Minister give us some reasons for this behaviour by the Department? 
-I would like to add to  Senator Mulvihill's  words. As he said, the Opposition opposes the Migration Amendment Bill, which is in two parts. The first purpose of the Bill is to apply charges mainly in overseas countries, to intending migrants. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said in the second reading speech, it is to defray the costs of the overseas administration of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. There are also machinery amendments authorising officers of other government departments to issue documents and making it an offence to give an authorised officer false information. Obviously, the Opposition does not oppose those clauses, but, in general, we oppose the main purport of the Bill. We oppose the charges but not the machinery amendments. 
The charges are an interesting lot. The processing of an application for the grant of a further temporary entry permit in this country is $20. We seek from the Minister some information as to whether the charge will apply to refugees or to people who might be on special benefits from her own Department. The second charge is for the processing of an application for change of status from a temporary to a permanent resident, which is a charge of $50. One wonders again, in the situation of refugees or others in this country in similar circumstances, why the charge is $50? Is the charge, large as it is, to deter such applications? On what basis is the charge set at $50? Has a work value case been performed? On what basis does one seek $50 from such people? The charge for processing a return endorsement, a return entry visa, is $20 in Australia and $30 overseas. Is that a general charge or is there some flexibility in it? Will people who have been here for many many years, particularly British migrants, have to pay the $20 or $30, no matter what the circumstances, even if they may have gone overseas because of a bereavement or illness of a relative? 
The next charge is for conducting English language tests at overseas posts. This will be a charge of $25. One wonders who will have to undergo such tests, what the nature of such tests will be and, as  Senator Mulvihill  asked, who will conduct such tests. Is this not again discriminatory against non-English-speaking potential migrants, as the Numerical Multi-Factor Assessment System already is? Why should we be putting on a charge for this purpose, particularly in view of the fact, as I will mention later, that overseas we are still spending money on advertising for migrants? There are charges of $20 for processing an application for evidence of resident status, $15 for obtaining information by cable from applicants and clients and $20 for assessing overseas qualifications. We are told that the charges levied in this Bill are designed to save the Government some $4m- about 12 per cent of the administrative costs of the overseas operations of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The rationale given by the Government in the second reading speech is: 
. these charges are consistent with the Government's policy of achieving cost recovery for services provided by departments. 
I suggest to the Government that if we carry that sort of explanation through to its logical extreme we will be charging pensioners for processing their pension applications, we will be charging Aborigines for the processing of applications for special assistance that they receive, we will be charging farmers for information from the Department of Primary Industry and from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and we will be charging businessmen for assistance from the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Trade and Resources. I believe that this is a nonsense argument which has just been puthis is a t into the second reading speech to try to give some sort of justification for imposing these charges on intending migrants. The thrust of this legislation is discrimination against intending migrants, particularly poor and nonEnglishspeaking migrants. That may not be the explicit intention of the Government, but this legislation will certainly have the effect of deterring poor non-English-speaking migrants from proceeding with applications to come to this country and to stay in this country because they will find financial obstacles in their way in this regard. 
We have had reports from the Government that there is a desire in Australia generally to pursue a policy of non-discrimination in the admission of migrants, but this sort of legislation containing these sorts of charges discriminates on the grounds of the ability to speak English and, of necessity, on the grounds of race. It does what the NUMAS scheme does. It puts out the welcome mat for comfortably-ofT Englishspeaking migrants, who are well ahead under the NUMAS scheme, and it puts nonEnglishspeaking migrants further behind the eight ball by making it more difficult for them to come to this country. I suggest that it will discriminate considerably against people coming to this country at times of crisis situations. We have already had a crisis situation in Lebanon when Australian citizens and people who have been residents of this country for a long time wanted to bring out their relatives from a very difficult situation. We had the overthrow of the Government of Chile which brought about a similar situation. Many of us were assisting migrants to bring out their relatives. Many of them had very few resources to bring their relatives out. I hope that the Government does not intend to carry through these charges indiscriminately and without any flexibility, as  Senator Mulvihill  said. If these charges are inflexible and if the Minister or the Department does not have the ability not to apply the charges, we will have discrimination against the not so well educated and nonEnglishspeaking migrants, whether they come from Europe, Asia, Africa, South America or anywhere else. 
A further point I would like to bring up is that it seems to discriminate against families, unless there is a family rate rather than the individual rate that is listed in the Minister's second reading speech. One can only assume from the list of charges that it is an individual rate and that each member of a family may be charged individually. We would like some clarification from the Minister on this situation. In this country a lot of money has been put into a publicity campaign designed to entice people here, including skilled workers who may not necessarily be on high wages overseas. Then we introduce legislation such as this and tell such people that they are to pay the bill for the work which is done by public servants in this country to process their applications to come to this country. I suggest that that is a discriminatory and patronising act which certainly shows an ambivalent approach to our oft stated policy of attracting migrants to this country on an equal basis. 
One of the charges is for obtaining information by cables from applicants and clients. In view of the fact that the Government has said that this is consistent with the Government's policy of achieving cost recovery for services provided by the Department, I would like to know of any other department which makes such charges. Certainly one hopes that in future members of parliament will not be charged for making such inquiries on behalf of constituents. Many of us have to do this at various times, almost monthly in my case.  Senator Mulvihill  sees an enormous number of immigration cases. In his case it would be probably weekly or even more often than that. What is the situation of the migrant welfare groups in this country, of which there are many? Are people who make inquiries on behalf of ill or distressed migrants to be charged $15 a time for trying to serve the members of their community? If they are to be charged, are they then supposed to attempt to recoup that money from clients who may be penniless, unemployed or in some considerable financial difficulty? I just believe that it is quite wrong for a government to levy charges of this type for seeking information by cable because they will fall inevitably on people who are distressed and disadvantaged. In my opinion that should be seen as a genuine welfare measure in this country. 
I repeat the question asked by  Senator Mulvihill.  It is claimed in the second reading speech that similar charges are imposed generally by other countries. I think Europe is mentioned particularly in the second reading speech. On making inquiries the Opposition could not find out which countries, particularly countries from which we receive migrants, make such charges, particularly charges for extensions of visitors' visas and re-entry visas. I would like to know from the Department how many countries charge for visas and particularly whether they are countries from which we are trying to attract migrants. Which countries are they? 
Then we come to the question of language tests. I repeat that the English language test and the provisions of extra points for people who can speak English already put non-English-speaking migrants at a disadvantage; and the migrant community frequently points that out. I would like to ask a series of questions on this matter and I may as well do it at the second reading stage as at the Committee stage. Who overseas will be making decisions on the language tests which are to be given to intending migrants? How qualified are the officers? What objective criteria will they use both to apply these tests and to put on these tests? How different will they be from the English tests for citizenship in this country? Will they be more difficult or easier? We are just adding new problems for intending migrants. I do not believe that we should do that in any way, but particularly when it will cause economic hardship to people who wish to migrate to this country and who initially may well be attracted to this country by our advertising overseas. 
The recommendations contained in the report of the Galbally Review of Post-arrival Programs and Services to Migrants were for the spending of some $50m in three years to assist post-arrival services for migrants in this country- about $16m a year. By this measure, intending visitors and migrants will be asked to provide $4m a year to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In other words, effectively we will be asking them to pay for a quarter of the post-arrival services recommended by the Government's own inquiry. As I have explained, the Bill seems to be discriminatory; it is ungenerous; it seems to be inflexible- the second reading speech and the Bill contain no indication that the operation of this legislation will be other than inflexible- and it is based on the principle of taking from the poor and the troubled, from the ones who are least able to pay and who most need assistance in transferring to Australia and who in fact will make a very good contribution to this country when they arrive here. For those reasons, the Opposition does not like this sort of legislation and the Opposition opposes the Bill. 
I have two queries of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  which arise from remarks she made in reply in the second reading debate. The first refers to the charges imposed for English tests at stations overseas. I was fascinated- maybe I am just becoming suspicious in my old age- when the Minister said that those charges where primarily charges required by the Department of Education for the entry of overseas students. If they are the primary charges, I want to know what secondary and tertiary charges there are; or does the Minister in fact mean that they are the only charges? If there are other cases in which such charges are made, I believe that honourable senators should be notified. 
My second query concerns the charge of $ 1 5, 1 think it is, for information sought from overseas by cable. The Minister assured us that that charge would not be applied to inquiries made by members of parliament on behalf of clients. Does this mean that when people from overseas seek information through a member of parliament, they will not be subject to this charge but that if they go somewhere else, such as the Migrant Welfare Service or any of the welfare agencies in this country, there will be a charge? Does it mean that there will be two classes of people: Those who know of or think of going to their member of parliament and those who do not know of their member of parliament and seek assistance from some other agency, particularly a self-help group, of which there are many in the community? If that is the situation we believe that it is a further discrimination in the legislation. I seek information on that matter. 
-The Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1979 removes any reference in the principal Act to what is called a 'prescribed period' and thus extends indefinitely the operations of the homeless persons assistance program. As such the Opposition is not opposed to the Bill, although it has been critical of the manner in which the program has operated over the last four years and continues to be operated. We will move to the second reading of the Bill an amendment which does not oppose the Bill but which draws attention to the fact that certain assistance under this program to organisations helping homeless persons has not been increased since 1 974 when the legislation was first introduced despite considerable increases in costs since. The period of operation of this Act was extended on two previous occasions pending, we were told, discussions with the States and with the homeless persons assistance advisory committees about the ambit of the program and the future of funding and of administrative responsibilities of the States and of the Commonwealth. 
Many organisations and individuals in the community and in this parliament have anxiously awaited the Government's plans and ideas in relation to the future development of this very important program. This Bill does extend the program, but neither the Bill nor the second reading speech tell us very much about the future of the program, except that some youth refuges will be established under the Youth Services Program in the Office of Child Care, that some homeless people already receive support under the Community Health Program- that is, women's shelters, and they have done so for four or five years- and that other homeless people receive support from welfare housing and the Family Support Services Scheme. That is not a very enlightening piece of information and it certainly does not give us any idea of what the Government intends to do in the future. We are further concerned that the only capital grants provided for in the Estimates this year are for two projects in the city of Brisbane, both of which were approved last year, and both of which were delayed by local factors in that area. No new projects have been listed, and it seems obvious from the comments that were made during the hearings of Estimates Committee C that, when the Estimates were drawn up, no new projects were being considered. In fact, one doubts whether the Government knew at that time exactly what it would do with this program. 
Further, the Bill extends the duration of support for current expenditure in existing programs. But, as I said, no new capital projects are approved, and in fact the level of individual support remains at 75c for board and 25c for meals, as it did when the legislation was first introduced. It is for that reason that, on behalf of the Opposition, I move the following amendment to the second reading motion: 
At the end of the motion add, ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should legislate for increases, in line with increased costs caused by inflation, in the food and accommodation subsidy paid to those who provide assistance to Homeless Persons. '. 
The amendment does no more than request the Government to do something about the level of these payments. A considerable problem is faced by people who are assisting the homeless persons. The food and accommodation subsidies have remained the same since the scheme was introduced and no allowance has been made for improvement or expansion. My information is that the advisory committees to the Government under the Homeless Persons Assistance Program have brought this matter to the attention of the Government repeatedly, but to no avail. I would suggest that, if we are fair dinkum about this program and the assistance that we give to people who are taking part in this very important project, we should update it in line with increased costs caused by inflation- or we ignore the program altogether. But we have no definitive statement as to the future of the program. We get no inkling from the Bill what is to happen in the future and what the Government may do. 
From the second reading speech- and we certainly get nothing from the Bill- it seems that the future in the most pressing and rapidly expanding area of need, that of youth refuges, will be funded only 50 per cent by the Federal Government in new projects. It would appear that the Federal Government, which has most responsibility in this area for our most pressing social problem, youth unemployment, wishes to hive off the responsibility for one of the most distressing social consequences of youth unemployment, that is, homelessness in our young people. I think it is a matter of great regret that this seems to be the situation. It is an aspect to which I wish to return later. 
First of all, I point out that the history of estimates and expenditure under the Homeless Persons Assistance Program is, to say the least, a disappointing one- disappointing to all of us. The history of good intentions can be seen from remarks made by responsible officers at the various Estimates committees over the last four years. The figures of allocations and expenditure each year show the relative failure to get the program moving, to get things off the ground. If one goes through the replies made to various questions by officers of the Department of Social Security on behalf of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  at the various Estimates debates, we can see what has happened. In October 1976, the officer said: 
Although nearly $7m in projects has been committed, the $2.1m will be adequate from the point of view of expenditure this year, and the balance will be available in time for the organisations next year. 
In that year, a total of $4.4m was allocated, but only $1.6m was expended. In 1977, we were told: 
There are a number of projects which have already been approved. The value of these is about $5.5m which we expect will be spent this year on the projects already approved. 
Of the $5.5m allocated, only $ 1.73m was expended. In 1978, we were told: 
We envisage that on the outstanding projects there is a need for expenditure of about $6. 7m. 
Again: 
During this year we have arranged to consult with the State governments which are doing work in the area. Arising from discussions which we held, the Government will then make a decision on future funding. 
In that year, $3.8m was allocated and only $2.08m was expended. For four years in a row during the occupancy of the present Government, only half the moneys appropriated to provide assistance with shelter for the homeless has been used, despite claims by existing organisations for more help, with emergency assistance particularly, but also with extensions to existing programs. Needs have risen each year, but moneys voted by this Parliament have been unused and have been returned to the revenue. I see no virtue in such a statement when the need and the opportunity to use such funds are obvious to anyone who is interested in the subject at all. We are not talking about expenditure which would cripple the nation. We are not taking about expenditure which would blow out the deficit, and there is no virtue in cutting expenditure in these socially important areas where people are in great need. In four years, of the $17m allocated only $ 10m has been spent. That, I suggest, is a reflection of either appalling estimating or a lack of willingness to move in this area. 
As I have said in this place in the past, I am perfectly aware that there are local problems which beset programs for the homeless. These include problems with local governments which are more concerned with property values than with the people who live in their areas and problems with society's alienation of the homeless. But still I believe that, in four or five years of experience, we should have learned enough to do better, and we should have learned enough to assist people who are doing such a good job in this important area. The working party which made the recommendations to the Government in 1974 to set up this program anticipated an expenditure in the Homeless Persons Assistance Program of about $5m a year, or $ 15m in three years. In that first four years, we had $8m; and there is no certainty what will happen in the future. 
When the legislation was introduced in 1 974, the then Minister for Social Security, Bill Hayden, pointed out the contrast between the millions which are spent in this country enforcing laws such as the laws relating to vagrancy- one could add public drunkenness and public nuisance- which harrass the homeless persons who are assisted under this legislation. He pointed out the contrast between that and the pittance spent on providing shelter, rest, nutrition, rehabilitation and counselling for this heterogenous group of people whom we conveniently label the homeless, although it is purely a label of convenience. Gough Whitlam in his 1974 policy speech spoke of the homeless and their needs. As was so frequently the case with him, he had a much broader view. He had a broad vision of a flexible program that would assist in providing shelter and succour for:   the young as well as the old . . . the permanently homeless, to the deserted or disturbed woman and her children, to the Aboriginal or teenager in want or distress, to the battered woman or the battered child, to the single parent . . . 
That such a broad and flexible program did not develop is a disappointment to me personally and, I know, to many of us. That women's refuges ended up with the Community Health Program because of impatience with progress at the time- it was done when Labor was in officeand because more funds were available in that area is to be regretted. It is equally to be regretted that youth refuges are now to be largely under the States or the Office of Child Care. It seems that we have not succeeded in setting up a broad, flexible program that can cover a wide group of people in distress whose primary need is shelter, a place to identify with, a place where they can receive support and counselling. It seems that we are to continue to have a program that is based mainly on the group of homeless men who are traditionally supported by the voluntary agencies in this country. It is an important program, but I believe that we could have done so much more if we had widened it and enabled a more flexible approach to be taken. I know that the program includes provision for a smaller group of homeless women and that some youth refuges are to be continued, but from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security it seems that the activity is to be confined largely to the group of so-called homeless men. It is they whom I would like to consider firstly. 
When we consider this group, which is so often the so-called skid row people in this community, we see an area of considerable need, one in which many fine people in this community have laboured long and hard. I refer to members of the Salvation Army, St Vincent de Paul, the various city missions and homeless persons groups around the country. They have laboured hard and long to provide shelter, dignity and respect to a group of citizens that society would rather not know about and would seem to continue not to want to know about. Anyone who goes out and talks to such people will realise the truth of the various reports in this country in recent years by those who have studied this group of citizens. One realises that these people are not in fact the homogenous group of drunken dead beats that they were always considered to be in the past; that in fact they are a heterogeneous group with varying backgrounds, problems and outlooks on life, who share a lack of permanent home and a tendency to be mobile. Often this mobility has been forced upon them by society's attitudes. 
I recall that last time we debated this legislation I quoted from the poverty inquiry papers such as 'Health Studies of Disadvantaged Groups' and 'Homeless Persons and the Law'. One could also quote from the Department of Social Security's paper 'A Place of Dignity'. All of these papers point out that we have a group which has a consistently higher rate of alcoholism, of general health problems, of respiratory and hepatic diseases, of tuberculosis and of venereal diseases, a high pattern of inadequate or broken schooling- although some are quite well educated- a consistent inability to maintain reasonable personal relationships, a consistently high unemployment rate, a high rate of clashes with the law for vagrancy and other petty crimes. Although this pattern runs through any survey that is done of them, the studies also demonstrate a fact that is obvious to anyone who spends any time with them. They are a most varied group, with varying attitudes to their own condition and to society; they are an interesting group and one that is worth caring for and worth looking after. 
The reports show that some are embittered and unhappy in their loneliness and isolation from society, but others prefer their isolated state. Almost all resent the sort of paternalism with which they have been treated so often in the past. Most need shelter, a home base and treatment of their health, nutritional, alcoholism or other problems, but they do not wish to be told how to live or how to conform to society's ideas of what is proper. They are people who in the past have been neglected or even hounded by society. They continue to be hassled by our laws and to be hindered by our concepts of propriety. Nevertheless, they are a part of our society. They vary from the utterly dependent alcoholic or brain-damaged person to the non-conformist eccentric. They contain the groups that we have all read about, such as Mac and the boys in Cannery Row and Tortilla Flat of Steinbeck's stories. Those who have traditionally helped them and run the refuges, the Matthew Talbot hostels or Salvation Army homes, those who have provided them with a place with which they can identify, deserve our support. More than that, they deserve an expectation that they will continue to get our support. They deserve some indication of the support that they will get in the future. If you like, they deserve the equivalent of some indicative planning of which we talk so often in respect of economic affairs so that they can do their work with some sense of security and in a satisfactory manner. It is a legitimate function of government in a civilised society to provide such assistance, despite economic difficulties. In fact, it is even more a responsibility of government to provide such assistance in times of economic difficulty, because in those times the numbers of the people they serve increase. Such institutions also deserve community support, not the obstructiveness and difficulties that are put in their way by those who prefer not to see them or prefer to keep them out of sight and out of mind. 
When the Homeless Persons Assistance Program was introduced in this Parliament it was praised by honourable members on both sides. One can remember that the then  Mr Chipp,  now  Senator Chipp,  who was the shadow Minister for Social Security, was quite in his praise of a government which had at last done something concrete in this area. The program has not done as well as it should have, partly because of society's general attitude to these people, and partly from a lack of desire on the part of the Government to increase expenditure, even in this worthy area. As I have said, we still remain uncertain as to what is to happen in that regard. 
However, two things are certain. One is that the economy will not improve quickly and the other is that our unemployment rate will continue to increase. As this happens, the number of people who can be classed as homeless and in need of assistance will increase. As their numbers increase the contribution by government and society should continue to increase. We cannot tolerate the situation that has existed in the last four years, in which we have continued to underspend in this area. We need to assist the various organisations so that they can advance their programs, overcome their administrative difficulties and make more progress than they have in the past. 
We must also look seriously at the other problem mentioned by the Minister in her second reading speech. I refer to the plight of the young homeless, the teenage homeless in this community. This phenomenon is becoming more disturbing as youth unemployment increases. Some eight to ten years ago we did not hear much about it at all, probably because there were very few young homeless in the community, so few that they were just not noticed. More and more people are expressing concern about the increasing numbers involved. In Victoria one hears estimates of between 15,000 and 20,000 people under the age of 1 8 who have no home, who are alienated from their family home. In New South 
Wales it is suspected that the number is proportionately similar. In Victoria bands of concerned individuals from various welfare organisations and churches have got together in organisations to co-ordinate activity in this area. In Queensland a survey carried out under the International Year of the Child program has indicated that there has been an increase of some 70 per cent in the number of children under the age of 1 8 who are, in fact, wandering homeless around Brisbane and the other cities of Queensland. In New South Wales the State Government supports refuges and social workers for the homeless teenagers from 13 to 17 years of age. The Federal Government, we are told, through the Office of Child Care, has introduced a scheme whereby a one to one subsidy is going to go towards the States to assist them in this problem. 
The problem, as I say, is causing concern to all sorts of people. The Victorian Consultative Council on Social Welfare has produced a report on the result of a survey which indicates that the major causes of youth homelessness are youth unemployment and family difficulties caused by unemployment among other members of the family. It is pointed out that we have unemployed youth eligible for only $36 a week. These people are alienated from their families with little hope of a job. They are in an extremely vulnerable situation. The dangers of drifting into petty crime, vandalism, prostitution and the drug scene are very real. If ever there was a situation where we could have used a flexible homeless assistance program which could have provided funds for interested organisations, skilled organisations and concerned organisations to set up refuges- as some of them did- to support people in this very difficult situation, the Homeless Persons Assistance Program was one. There was no need, I suggest, to set up another program, as it seems, to cut down the Commonwealth's relative contribution in this area. One could have used this program, as it was meant to be used, to assist this group of people, instead of introducing what is, I believe, in danger of being a very narrowly based program which will restrict the activity of those involved in it. 
Whenever we introduce a program for a broad group of people like this, we must make sure that flexibility prevails; for instance, that the artificial cut-off point of 1 8 years is not rigidly applied because there will be many people between 19 years and, say, 24 years of age who are immature and who do not appropriately fit into the sort of accommodation that is usually available for homeless persons, particularly homeless men, in our community today. This program should be closely associated with other programs which help unemployed youth, programs such as the Community Youth Support Scheme, where unemployed and potentially homeless and alienated youths will attend for assistance or to gather with people of their own type. I repeat that I believe the best program would have been an expanded homeless persons program which would have provided the flexibility for handling what 1 suggest is an ominous social problem. 
In summing up, I point out firstly, that the Opposition has moved this amendment to draw to the attention of the Government and the community the utter inadequacy of the food and accommodation subsidies available under this program in 1979. The subsidies are the same as were available in 1974-75. In view of the costs and the increasing size of the problem, it is quite ludicrous to find them at the same level. This community can and must afford to increase them. 
Secondly, the Opposition would like to point out the unsatisfactory nature of the history of this program, the manner in which expectations have been built up by relatively high appropriations, and how expectations have not been reached by the underspending each year of that amount of money. These expectations could have been satisfied had further programs been approved to make up for those who admittedly had a long lag period and local difficulties in establishing their programs. Thirdly, we wish to express our disappointment that the program is apparently not to be extended to include other groups who could legitimately be considered in the homeless persons area, groups which it was certainly envisaged would be included when the program was first introduced. We express our disappointment that there is not to be introduced into the program a breadth and a flexibility which would have been useful in coping with some of the social problems which we will obviously face in times of increasing unemployment and economic difficulty. We are pleased that the program will continue. We are disappointed that it will not continue in the manner in which it was originally intended. We are disappointed that the Government seems to take it less seriously than those who originated the program and those who praised it when it was introduced considered that it should have been treated. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  whether we can have some clarification as to just what the future of the projects under this legislation will be. Is it likely that any more will be approved this year or are the only ones to be approved and funded this year the two projects in Brisbane, which were approved last year and delayed because of local difficulties? Is there any likelihood of what the Opposition considers to be quite unreasonable levels of payment of 75c for board and 25c for meals, which have been in existence since 1974, being raised before the next Budget? 
-I refer the Minister for Social Security to a statement put out by her and the then Minister for Community Welfare Services in Victoria,  Mr Dixon,  in April of this year in which she and the Victorian Minister announced matching grants for youth services totalling $526,200 a year for emergency accommodation and related services for homeless youth in Victoria. I also refer the Minister to a more recent statement of hers in which she announced that $3m will be offered to State governments on a dollar for dollar basis for similar services over a three-year period. I ask: If the Victorian Government is to receive $ 1.5m- half the total sum that is to be allocated by the Commonwealth for these services- under what criteria will the moneys be distributed to the other States? Have the other States all agreed to participate in these services? 
by leaveThe Opposition wishes to make its usual protest about the sort of statement that has just been put down by  Senator Webster.  The Social Services Amendment Bill, the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill and the National Health Amendment Bills account for some 25 per cent of Budget expenditure, and some 50 per cent of taxation revenue. It is certainly not the fault of this House that these Bills were not passed through another place until last night. It is not the fault of the Opposition or anyone else in this place, except the Government, that they have been so late in arriving in both the House of Representatives and the Senate; yet we see employed again the old, old tactic that has been used by the Government since it came to office. We are told: 'Unless you people go along with us the pensioners will miss out on their pension increases '. 
We believe that these are important Billsmore important than the Government makes them out to be- and that they deserve full debate. They affect not only the pensioners but also the rights of people who, because of strikes, are out of work or who, for all sorts of reasons, have had to leave their employment. They should be fully debated. We will not do anything that will prevent a responsible and proper consideration of these Bills, but that does not mean that we will be willing to shorten debate or to force ourselves not to make the points that necessarily should be made, merely because of the blackmail- that is all that it can be described as- by the Government in suggesting that if we debate them fully we will be depriving pensioners of their payments. 
I know, as does every other senator, that if necessary the Government will gag the legislation through, but that does not mean that we will fail to debate it fully and make the very important points that should be made. We have certain rights in this place. They should not be adversely affected by what happens in the other place or by the Government's inability to get important legislation such as this before the Parliament in time for it to be passed in time for payments under it to be made. Therefore, I make the formal protest that the Opposition has made every time this has been attempted since the Government came to power. 
I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for the information she has given. I just make the plea that was made by myself,  Senator Mason  and others who spoke in the second reading debate. We are facing an increasingly difficult problem in this area of homeless persons assistance, with economic difficulties, unemployment and the number of people coming under the care of the various organisations which look after the homeless in this country increasing. Already under the existing programs, and even with the two large projects in Brisbane, charitable organisations will have to turn people away. We always seem to be chasing deficits in this area and chasing problems after they have occurred, when there are organisations with vast experience in this field who attempt at least partially to anticipate the problems. I believe it is the duty of government and the duty of this Parliament to assist these organisations in anticipating the problems and helping to make life a little easier for both them and those for whom they care. 
I am sorry to intervene after this breast beating exercise by  Senator Bonner.  I have to because all he did was demonstrate that he did not know what the homeless persons assistance program was about at all. I recommend to  Senator Bonner  that he go away and read a document called 'A Place of Dignity' which has been produced by the Department of Social Security. It is an excellent document which demonstrates that certain people amongst the homeless persons group are overrepresented when compared with their percentage in the total population. Included in this group, unfortunately, are alcoholics, epileptics, people suffering from chronic chest and liver diseases, people suffering from venereal diseases, people who are unemployed and Aborigines. A considerable percentage of this group- I think from memory some 26 per cent to 30 per centare not receiving social security benefits at all because they are not entitled to or because they are ignorant of our system or cannot handle it. They are assisted by voluntary agencies such as St Vincent de Paul, the Salvation Army, the Smith Family, the Jesus People and various city missions in this country. They are assisted and given shelter, counselling and a place of dignity with which to be associated. The 25c and 75c mentioned by me,  Senator Georges, Senator Coleman  and  Senator McLaren,  is given to the voluntary organisations to help feed and give people shelter. It is not given to the unfortunate people who go to the voluntary agencies for help. 
I think that before  Senator Bonner  interjects in the manner in which he did or contributes to the debate in the manner in which he did he should go away and read 'A Place of Dignity' and various poverty reports. He can then come into the chamber and interject and speak from more certain knowledge of what the homeless persons assistance program is all about. He would not then come in to the chamber and abuse people who are asking the Government to reconsider the amount of money which is paid not to the individuals who cannot help themselves anyhow but to the voluntary agencies which are supporting them. The money does not go to the individuals; it goes to the voluntary agencies. The voluntary agencies are in a very difficult situation at the moment because of the economic situation in this country. 
-The Social Services Amendment Bill 1979 is typical of the social services amendment Bills we get each year in the post-Budget session in that it contains a large number of changes to an already complicated piece of legislation, and those changes cover a variety of subjects. The Opposition's attitude to the Bill is mixed, as it always is. There are technical and unobjectionable amendments. There are amendments improving the lot of some pensioners and others in the community, of which we approve. There are amendments which arise out of circumstances that were unforeseen at the time of previous changes, which we do not oppose. There are amendments which we consider are discriminatory against the unemployed and against trade unionists in this community, to which we have considerable objection and which we will oppose. It is impossible in the time allotted in the second reading debate to deal with all the amendments. However, in the Committee stage we will consider some of them in more detail. 
As well as what we consider are sins of commission in the legislation, there are sins of omission in regard to the unemployed without dependants, the level of family allowances, the level of supplementary allowances for rental paid to pensioners and beneficiaries and the level of allowances to pensioners' children. For this reason the Opposition will move an amendment to the motion for the second reading which expresses our disapproval of some of the sins of commission and omission that we see. We will move it in this way so as not to hinder the passage of those clauses of the Bill to which we do not object and which we support. I therefore move: 
At the end of the motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that it should provide for- 
twice yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependents; 
) an increase in unemployment benefits for those under 18 years; 
removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the "voluntary" unemployed and those who fail the work test; 
removal of the provision of refusing unemployment and special benefit to those unemployed through the industrial action of others; 
the updating of supplementary allowances and allowances for pensioners' children to compensate for inflation, and 
an increase in family allowances to compensate for their erosion by inflation '. 
The amendment is not all-inclusive of the things we would like to see in social security legislation in this country, but it covers most of the things in this legislation about which we are concerned at the moment. As I said, it will be necessary to spend some time in the Committee stage seeking clarification of some of the clauses and changes of wording that have been included in the Bill. 
Before I deal in detail with the Bill, I repeat the plea I make each year that work on rewriting the Social Services Act be expedited to bring this cumbersome piece of law to a state we can all more readily handle. It is a complex piece of legislation, it has been amended ad infinitum, and it is becoming very difficult and tedious to consider. At least one of the amendments being made this year results from an error made last year, and a couple of others are the result of unforeseen consequences of amendments made last year which may not have occurred if the Act had been more straightforward and if it had not been so difficult, as it always is, to consider the amendments. I do not feel sorry only for myself; I feel sorry for the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and anyone else who has to deal with this Act. I know how difficult it is for the public servants to keep the Act consolidated and up to date. 
The provisions in the Bill to which the Opposition has no objection are those which provide for twice-yearly indexation of pensions and benefits; those which provide an extension of income limits for pensioner fringe benefits; the extension of the wife's pension to women in approved benevolent homes; the extension of the wife's pension to women who are separated from their husbands because of illness or because they or their husbands are in benevolent homes; and the correction of the anomaly in the payment of family allowances and handicapped children's allowances monthly which occurs when children are in institutions or away for a holiday. We have no objection to the technical amendments concerning self-government in the Northern Territory, orphans' pensions, and compensation payments. 
We welcome the easing of the means test for fringe benefits for pensioners and supporting parents from $33 a week to $40 a week for single pensioners and from $57.50 to $68 for married pensioners. We point out that this draws further attention to the fact that there are now very much two clauses of social security recipients. At the end of 7 June 1979 there were 3 12,000 people on unemployment benefits, 32,400 on sickness benefits, and 12,000 on special benefits, making a total of 357,300 beneficiaries who are not entitled to health, pharmaceutical, transport and telephone concessions. These non-financial benefits make a considerable difference to the level at which people live in this community. The Minister for Social Security, and the DirectorGeneral of Social Services,  Mr Lanigan,  have admitted in Estimates committees this year that there are no administrative costs of any significance in extending fringe benefits to the unemployed in certain circumstances, and to sickness and special benefit recipients. 
So, if the Government had a policy to increase these benefits, as the Opposition believes it should, it could do so with very little administrative change or administrative cost. In fact, the Government has a policy to save money at the expense of some of the poorest people in the community. I will deal with them later. 
The introduction of twice-yearly indexation corrects a gross injustice and a breach of faith perpetrated by the Government last year. It causes some amusement on this side of the chamber to see various characters, particularly on Government back benches in another place- I do not think it is necessary to name them- some of whom voted for the abolition of twice-yearly indexation, now clawing over one another, particularly in their own electorates, to take the credit for having had the Government change its mind and reintroduce twice-yearly indexation. 
At the time the Opposition, every pensioner organisation in the country, every newspaper except the  Australian,  every political commentator except a well known one from the  Bulletin  and every political party including many branches of the Liberal Party- branches in Victoria, Western Australia and Tasmaniacondemned the change from twice-yearly indexation for what it was. It was a broken promise and an unjust burden on the pensioners. I suppose it is unfortunate that the reintroduction is a heaven-sent opportunity for the headline seekers on the Government back benches, but at least we can welcome the fact that the Government has seen the injustice of its actions and has reversed its previous decision. I suppose we may be thankful for small mercies. I remind the Government that even now twice-yearly indexation is not the indexation which was promised by the conservative parties in their election campaign in 1 975. It is not the automatic and immediate indexation which was promised then, but I suppose the time has long passed when we could consider it possible that that sort of indexation would be introduced. 
The unemployed without dependants have been neglected again in this legislation. Many of these people are adults of middle age who have been put out of work by technological change and structural adjustment in industries and who get no increase at all to cope with inflation. The other neglected group comprises the unemployed under 18 years of age. They remain at the level of $36 a week that they were given in 1975, despite escalating costs, despite a great increase in their numbers and particularly despite the fact that, as was noted by all speakers on the legislation dealing with the homeless persons assistance program, they are increasingly joining the ranks of the homeless in the community because of their own unemployment and because of family stress caused by adult unemployment in their families and homes. Unemployment increases and the unemployed suffer, but the Government sticks to its resolve that market forces will somehow solve this problem, and anyone who has the temerity to suggest a different approach- such as the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace or the Anglican Synod in Tasmania- is likely to be labelled as marxist by people such as  Mr Carlton,  the honourable member for Mackellar, who apparently believes that anyone who advocates redistribution of wealth in this community from the more well off to the poorer is automatically a marxist. One would have thought that that was a fairly basic principle of the Christian faith and a basic principle of any humanitarian approach. But, no, the name calling starts and anyone who issues a pamphlet, as the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace did, is labelled marxist in the pejorative sense for suggesting some change or some new approach to the very real problems which face us in the community. 
It is actions like this- the failure to index unemployment benefits for those without dependants and the failure to recognise that those under 18 years of age have a considerable problem when they are unemployed- that belie the statement which is repeated in various forms by the Minister for Social Security in every second reading speech which has been made in the social security and health package of Bills. I quote from the second reading speech of the Bill with which the Senate is now dealing. The Minister states: 
It demonstrates the Government's determination to continue to provide for those in need, notwithstandiing the necessity to restrain Government expenditure. The proposals will add to reforms which have already benefited low income families generally. 
I wish to examine this statement and look at the low income families to see how they have been treated by the Government. In doing so, I wish to draw attention to an area of need not considered by the Government, and question seriously the priorities that this Government has in dealing with the so-called low income families. To do so I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  two tables. The first is a comparison of poverty lines and the disposable incomes of various low income families in the community, produced by the Statistical Service of the Parliamentary Library. The second is a comparison of family allowances as they have been paid since they were introduced in 1976 and as they would have been paid had they been indexed to this time. They illustrate the point I want to make. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="083232197910245_60_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910245_61_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197910245_61_4.jpg"></graphic>

-The first table demonstrates that the single income family in this country is below the poverty line on $ 140 a week with three or more children; on $160 a week, with four or more children; and on $ 1 80 a week, with five or more children. All those single income families with the head of the family working are below the poverty line. I know the Minister has little faith in the poverty line but it happens to be the only reputable yardstick we have in this country. I do not think anyone believes that it is anything other than a fairly austere measure, as it was described by Professor' Henderson. The second list of low income families shows that the pensioner or the unemployed person with more than one child is always below the poverty line if he has no income other than his pension. In fact, the unemployed are worse off than the pensioner. If the pensioner earns $20 a week he is lifted above the poverty line by that extra income but, even with $20 a week more, the unemployed person with two children or more remains in a poverty trap because of the low level of income allowed to the unemployed. I must point out that these figures are purely cash figures. They do not include health care entitlements and other fringe benefits available to pensioners and not available to the unemployed. They count only for the financial aspects of poverty. The single parent on a pension or the single unemployed on a benefit is similarly very badly treated by our system, as an examination of the figures in the table will show. They are all below the poverty line; they all stay below the poverty line  despite extra incomes  of up to $20 a week. 
These are the lowest of the low income families in the community. I think an investigation of these tables will reveal just how these people get into poverty traps and stay in them. We may ask how the Government, which expresses such concern for low income families, has treated them under the social services provisions of our legislation in general. Since it came to power in 1 975 the Government has not increased by one cent the allowance for pensioners' children, despite the fact that there has been a 40 per cent increase in the consumer price index since then. Secondly, it has not increased by one cent the supplementary benefit which is paid to very poor pensioners who live in private rental accommodation and who have an income of no more than $5 on top of their pensions. Since 1975 there have been many rent and cost increases, but there has been no increase in the supplementary rent allowance. Incidentally, this year the Government has also cut expenditure on public housing by some $18m. 
Thirdly, family allowances have been allowed to deteriorate in value to the extent indicated in the second table which I have incorporated in  Hansard.  Since the initial benefit given to low income families by the introduction of family allowances in 1976, a family with three children is $20 a month worse off and a family with five children is $39 a month worse off in real terms. So much for assistance to the really low income families in this community. I would like to point out that the low income families who increase rapidly in numbers and who, of all the families shown on these tables, are worse off are the families of the unemployed. They get no extra benefits of note unless they are fortunate enough to have access to a sympathetic medical practitioner who will consider them disadvantaged or unless they have adequate access to public hospital facilities. In most States they get no transport concessions. The average duration of their unemployment is increasing. All they get are lectures on how they must suffer while market forces will look after them. I suggest to the Government- I implore the Government- that now that it has taken the step of giving the pensioner health benefit card to lone parents, having ignored the objections of and not having consulted with the medical profession, it is time for the unemployed, or at least the long term unemployed, to be considered disadvantaged in the terms of the National Health Act for the period of their unemployment as part of the law of this land and for the medical profession to be required to treat them as such. 
Earlier in my speech I mentioned the unemployed without dependants. We believe that this legislation should aim at providing the basis of a social security service which provides for those in need in the community. In its obsession with cutting expenditure, particularly in relation to the unemployment benefit, the Government has picked on the least organised group in the community, the group with the least political cloutthe single unemployed of all ages. Above all members of the community they are refused cost of living increases. They must wait on the whim of the Government to get an increase. They have not received an increase in the last two Budgets. The poor families and the single unemployed will suffer. 
In the 1930s in the United States there was a situation similar to the situation we have now. Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected on a policy that under his New Deal he would do something to correct the difficulties. After his first term in office he was one of the few leaders of governments in the world who actually did something about the difficulty that was facing his country, which was a divided society facing incredible unemployment and incredible poverty. He was not a socialist but he was an active man who did not sit back and allow market forces to take their place. In his second inaugural speech, when talking about the progress that had been made, he said: 
The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little. 
I suggest that those words could well be taken up by the community in general. If one were very optimistic one could ask even the Government to take them up and to consider whether there has been any progress in this country in providing enough for those who have too little. There is no question that the Government's economic policies have added more to the abundance of those who have much. If we do this, if we keep adding to the difficulties of the unemployed and the numbers of unemployed and disadvantaged in the community, we will imbue in people a chronic sense of injustice, that things are not fair. I quote another American who was quoted by Professor Sackville in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. In  Justice and the Poor  Reginald Heber Smith said: 
Nothing rankles more in the heart than a brooding sense of injustice. Illness we can put up with; but injustice makes us want to pull things down. 
If we have this chronic sense of injustice we will have more of those demonstrators who upset members of the Government so much. We will have more people who will rise up in anger. It will be of no use Government members blaming political agitators or some foreign conspiracy. They will have to look nearer to home for the reasons for these protests and demonstrations. We will have a divided society; we are heading for it right now. 
The second aspect of the legislation I would like to deal with is the amendment dealt with in clauses 35 and 42 of the Bill. The clauses provide that unemployment benefit or special benefits shall not be paid to members of a union put out of work by that union's industrial action, even if the strike or industrial action is hundreds or thousands of kilometres away and the affected employees know nothing about the strike, had no pan in its initiation and may have opposed it. Under this legislation we may have a situation in which workers who have been laid off are being paid unemployment benefit while their work mates- even people on the next bench in the same factory- may be refused that benefit because they belong to a union which is taking part in industrial action many miles away. Neighbours in the same street may be treated differently. Even in cases of extreme hardship, special benefit, which of all social security benefits has the most stringent set of conditions attached to it, is to be denied to these people. 
This is not a new suggestion. It was proposed by Government members in 1977 at the time of the La Trobe Valley power dispute. At that time the suggestion was mooted that people should not receive unemployment benefit when they are out of work as a result of industrial action anywhere. At that time welfare agencies in Victoria were flooded with people in distress. Some of them had to close their doors. Eventually they all needed assistance from governments to survive. At the time many comments were made by many interesting people about what they saw as the justice or injustice of such a proposal. I will quote some of them. The first one is  Mr P.  F. Falconer who was then  chairman  of the Government's industrial relations committee. He urged the Government to reconsider such a proposal. He told the Government parties that a large number of rank and file members who had nothing to do with the strike would find their benefit cut.  Senator Steele  Hall, who was then a Liberal senator, said that the Government was making the innocent do its dirty work for it. He said that the proposal was unjust and that he had the gravest doubts about it.  Mr Dixon,  who was the social welfare Minister in Victoria, telegrammed the Federal Government warning it not to introduce the proposal because it would increase the number of family breakdowns. The Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  said that he believed that people stood down through no fault of their own should be paid unemployment benefit. The conservative journal the Melbourne  Herald  stated:   it would be outrageous to deny sustenance to stood - down unionists and their families not involved in the dispute. The Government should take care that no substance exists for such stories in future. 
The Melbourne  Age  condemned the proposal and stated: 
Unemployment benefits should be regarded as a right for those people jobless through no fault of their own. They are not a privilege and they most certainly are not a plaything for politicians. 
As recently as a few weeks ago the  Canberra Times  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  condemned such a proposal. They can hardly be called radical journals and their objection is the same as that of the Opposition: This is social services legislation; it is designed to help people in need; it is not legislation which should be used as a bludgeon to attempt to cower unions into obeying the Government's dictates whether they should strike. They object to the legislation because it is unjust. It is unjust because, as former  Senator Steele  Hall said, the innocent will suffer and will be asked to do the dirty work for the Government. Also, we believe that the legislation will be difficult to administer. We will say more about that in the Committee stage. We do not know how the legislation will work, without creating gross injustice. We believe that this legislation is just another excuse the Government is using to cover its economic difficulties. 
The final objection that we have to this legislation- I can mention it only briefly but I will mention it again in the Committee stage- is that it changes the discretionary power of the Director-General to withhold benefits from people who, he thinks, have voluntarily left employment or who have been guilty of misconduct. This legislation provides for a mandatory period of six weeks, with a discretionary period of up to 12 weeks. We believe that that is unjust.  Senator Colston  will speak further on that aspect and we will continue to bring up the matter in the Committee stage. We believe that those two aspects of the legislation are unfair. They are quite inappropriate in social services legislation. They should not exist at all. They are unjust and discriminatory and we will oppose them in the Committee stage. 
That the debate be now adjourned.  Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence verify the authenticity of documents which have been widely reported today and which purport to be the Army service record of a prominent member of a political party in New South Wales? Is the Minister aware that the public relations unit of the Department of Defence is freely offering verbally the same details of service on the basis that they are public information? Does the Minister regard that as a proper and desirable practice, especially when, as is the case in this situation, it is fuelling a smear campaign against an individual? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
This is an important report, and the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is an important one. We believe that in this Disarmament Week some reply is merited. We welcome the statement and the report, and we welcome the fact that the Minister in his report and in his supporting statement has announced that in future we will receive more regular reports of similar Australian delegations and Australian participation in important international forums. The Minister points out in his statement that it has been a very successful effort of the Government to achieve Australia's participation in the United Nations Committee on Disarmament. We agree, but we point out that it was in 1974, when the Labor Government was in power, that an Australian Government first sought to secure for us membership of what was then the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament in the United Nations. This was not possible because of the balance of power prevailing in the United Nations, and the fact that the Western allied nations had what was considered to be sufficient representation. We are pleased, therefore, that with the expansion of the Committee and the change in the nature of the Committee the Australian Government is at last represented. 
We on this side of the House consider the only future for disarmament, for reduction in world tension and reduction in hostilities throughout the world, is through international agreement, even though international agreements of the type that this Committee is trying to achieve are made difficult by the fact that the world is dominated in this area by the two super-powers, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It has often been said that war is the father of all things. Willy Brandt, who as many will know, has been labouring for peace in this world, has added that modern war with its nuclear weapons, its chemical weapons and its radiological weapons will be the death of all things, if we allow it to continue and allow such things to proliferate. 
The Committee has set itself an ambitious program, a program which some people- I suppose one could call them cynical- would say is impossible. The Committee attempts to investigate and draw up agreements on nuclear weapons in all their aspects, on chemical weapons, on weapons of mass destruction generally, on conventional weapons, on the reduction of military budgets and forces, on disarmament, on development and disarmament and international security. It also attempts to draw up comprehensive controls as to the use particularly of nuclear materials- materials which are allegedly for peaceful means, but which can be easily transferred into the production of mass weapons of destruction. Of all the items that the Committee is looking at, we consider this to be the most important. 
We know that in the world at present there is already an accumulation of massive amounts of potentially weapon-grade material. Japan, with its breeder reactor program, has over 5 tonnes of metallic plutonium which could be used very easily to produce a massive number of nuclear weapons to destroy most of life on this earth. The United Kingdom and the Eastern bloc countries have similarly accumulated vast quantities of potentially weapon-grade material. All these materials are under international control. They obviously should be under international control and under international supervision if possible. 
We hope, even if it is a long term hope, that the work of this Committee will be able to introduce some sort of international control. We know how unsuccessful this has been in the past. We know how India was able to overcome the restrictions put on its uranium supplied by Canada and produce nuclear weapons. Pakistan is willing to go ahead developing nuclear weapons because of its hysterical reactions to India's behaviour. We know that all over the world when countries accumulate potential nuclear materials that their neighbours, quite justifiably, get apprehensive and anxious and tend to do the same. 
It is for this reason that international agreements and international supervision of the nuclear cycle is so important. It is for this reason that we, on this side of the House, believe that until we can get adequate nuclear safeguards, internationally supervised, we should have no part of the nuclear cycle and the development of the nuclear system throughout the world. We should work to help countries to develop alternatives. 
We also believe that it is of vital importance- we will be very firm on this when we are in government- that we take part in international discussions of this type and take an active part in contributing scientific and legal material and working out scientific and legal solutions to the development of international agreements. We welcome Australia's participation in this Committee and welcome this report. We hope that in future we will get regular annual reports. It is through this Parliament to the people of this country that such regular reports should be made. They should not be made in secrecy to the Executive government. Having said those few words, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I merely question why the report of 1978 has arrived so late. I also question the fact that I, as Opposition spokesman on health, have yet to see the report. One hopes that the previous practice of the responsible Minister supplying a report two hours before it is tabled will be followed in future. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Opposition opposes this motion ibr the reasons that I gave yesterday. The Government has to move this motion because it has been delayed in bringing forward what we concede is important legislation. At this very late stage it is bringing forward legislation which is due to go into action. We concede that the Social Services Amendment Bill, the National Health Insurance Amendment Bills, the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill and the Overseas Students Charge Bills are important, but we do not concede that it has been necessary for them to be so delayed in coming into the House of Representatives or the Senate. 
Honourable senators on both sides frequently have pointed out the importance of a House of review being able to conduct General Business and participate in General Business. The only reason that this motion has been moved is that the Government has been unable to order its business. For weeks Bills of relatively less importance and urgency have been brought into this place and the other chamber. At this late stage of the session important pieces of legislation are being introduced. We are told that unless we go along with the Government 's program pensioners, repatriation beneficiaries and other recipients of social security in this country will not get their increases. That is a weak excuse. It borders on blackmail. We think it is the wrong way to conduct business. We believe that the legislation that has been put forward deserves much longer debate than it will get. 
We will not obstruct the passage of these Bills. At the same time we will insist, as we already have insisted, that they receive proper debate. Therefore, we formally oppose the motion. We believe that it is up to the Government to present to this House and the other House legislation of this type in adequate time so that we will not be subjected to the sorts of threats of the last couple of days. 
-Clause 9 provides for the reintroduction of twice-yearly indexation of pensions. We have already indicated that we certainly do not oppose this clause. I wish merely to point out that the reintroduction of this measure follows its abolition in the previous Budget; that it is merely restoring justice to those who need justice; and that it does not go far enough, as we said in our amendment, in that it omits to index twice-yearly the benefit received by people who are unemployed and without dependants. I point out that, despite the remarks made by Government members during the debate and frequently outside this chamber, people who are unemployed and without dependants are not only young people- they are not only people under the age of 2 1 years- even though young people may form the majority. Increasing numbers of people at middle age are put out of work because of technological and structural changes in our industries. These people have paid taxes for many years and deserve the benefits of our social security system and deserve protection against inflation in receiving those benefits as much as anybody else in the community does. 
In passing, I express my sorrow that I could not, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  suggested in her reply to the second reading debate, move an amendment setting out the whole of the Labor Party's social security program. I do not believe that that should be the intention of second reading amendments. It certainly was not possible for me to do so. As the Labor Party announces its social security program and its pre-election programs, the people of this country can at least be assured that if elected to government it will carry out those programs, unlike the present Government, which we well remember put forward a platform for the indexation of pensions automatically and immediately in line with cost of living increases. This still has not been introduced; obviously we will never see it. 
I make another comment in passing. It does not relate to any clauses of the Bill. I believe that my statements on family allowances have been deliberately misinterpreted in this place and another place during this debate and other debates. I have no intention ever of introducing a policy whereby family allowances will be removed from anyone in the community. I believe that family allowances are a recognition that it costs money to bring up children. My suggestion-I make no bones about it- is that increases in the amount of money spent on family allowances should, if possible, be distributed more to those in need, the low income families which I spoke about and whose position was demonstrated in the tables which were incorporated in  Hansard,  and less to families on high incomes. I include myself in that category. Therefore, if possible, I would introduce a family income supplement to complement the present family allowance scheme, not to replace it. I would not take money away from anyone. 
We do not oppose this clause. We believe in twice-yearly indexation. We believe that twiceyearly indexation should be extended to the unemployed without dependants, who are just as much in need as anybody else. 
-I believe that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  estimated that the cost of twice-yearly indexation of the unemployment benefit for people without dependants amounted to about $20m. 
-I suggest that $50m in a full year is higher than the estimates that we have had in the past. Perhaps if we took off the $40m that  Senator Walters'  leader decided to spend on the purchase and maintenance of 707 aircraft to take himself around the world, perhaps if we took off some of the expenditure on a couple of establishments in Canberra and Sydney, perhaps if we looked at the expenditure that was saved in the abolition of probate duties and perhaps if we looked at the fact that we are the only country without a capital gains tax and without a wealth tax we would be able to afford that vast sum of $50m. Of course that is a petty argument. 
We are talking about justice in the community and a social services Act which is meant to give assistance to people who are in need. If that is  Senator Walters'  argument, why should the unemployed who are without dependants be excluded from the twice-yearly indexation which the Social Services Act justifies for other groups? 
The Government has to justify excluding that group and demonstrate why a 45-year-old man or a 45-year-old spinster who has been working all his or her life and paying taxes should suddenly not be eligible for the protection against inflation that everybody else in the community is entitled to. I suggest that the Government has not justified this change. I think it is worth $50m. However, I doubt whether it will cost $50m. It is certainly worth this amount when looking at a Budget deficit of some $3,000m. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 13- by leave- taken together. 
I wonder whether there is not a mix-up here. As I understand it, the wife of someone whose husband is an inmate of a mental hospital is eligible for a widow's pension and, in fact, is better off than if she were on a wife 's pension. The effect of the legislation, as I read it, would be to improve her position or to clarify it. I think that the Minister, in her answer to  Senator Cavanagh,  said that the provision actually gave her a wife's pension. If that is so, I agree with  Senator Cavanagh.  I do not like the section, but my interpretation of it was that it would clarify her right to a widow's pension. 
-Clause 13 states: 
Section 33 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section is substituted: 
A wife 's pension is not payable to a woman: 
who is an inmate of a mental hospital; or 
whose husband is an inmate of a mental hospital. '. 
That is crystal clear and I understood the officers from the Department to tell us in their briefing that that was reasonable because she would be eligible for a widow's pension. It has been my understanding, having obtained widow's pensions for such people in such circumstances, that that was so. It is beyond my understanding how such wording can mean that the woman gets the benefit. The clause quite clearly removes it. 
I have some questions about clause 14 and possible opposition to it. This fairly complicated clause, I am told, is the one that provides that inmates of benevolent homes will retain only $7.95 a week whereas at present they retain $18.75 a week. It seems to me that the complicated calculations in this clause have that effect. What are benevolent homes these days and where are they? Why is there a change from $18.75 to $7.95, which is a very small sum of money. What sort of people will be getting only this amount of money left out of their pension? Does it mean that there will be two classes of pensioners in these benevolent homes- one getting $18.75 a week after their pension and other getting only $7.95? 
I am rather concerned about this sum of $7.95. Before I saw the light and gave up smoking, $7.95 would not have kept me in cigarettes for a week. I know that it would not keep  Senator Cavanagh  in cigarettes for a week. I realise that we have a policy in this country and in this chamber of discouraging people from smoking. I would expect that these people in homes would be largely elderly people who may smoke and who may well not achieve anything by way of longevity or good health by giving up smoking. It seems to me that this is an illustration how very small a sum $7.95 a week is. It is less than half of the $18.75 a week they received before. I wonder what the justification is for such a very small sum, even though it corresponds with other sums available under the health legislation. I wonder what will be the situation if, say, an inmate of one of these homes who at present retains the sum of $18.75 goes home for a few days to his relatives at Christmas or for a holiday at any time of the year and comes back into the home. When he comes back in, does he drop back down to the $7.95 as a new inmate of the home? I just wonder whether, if these homes are so few and if the inmates are so few, is it not cheeseparing to have cut this amount down for this small group of people in the community. 
-Clause 19 amends section  83CA  of the principal Act. To echo in passing  Senator Cavanagh  's remarks and my remarks during the second reading stage, I urge the Minister and the Department to continue with the rewriting and consolidating of this legislation so that we can all be helped through the difficulties that we always have. Clause 19 amends section  83CA  and increases the fringe benefit limit to pensioners. That is something that we do not oppose and which will certainly be of assistance to many pensioners in the community. I raise by way of a question the problem of those other people who do not receive these fringe benefits- the unemployment, sickness and special beneficiaries. 
The unemployment benefit in this country was once a temporary benefit, a short term benefit, to relieve people who were temporarily out of work. The average duration of people on unemployment benefit now is somewhere near seven months. There is no way that that can be considered a short term benefit any more. Many people have been on unemployment benefit for more than a year and even more than 1 8 months. The difficulty that we have- as I pointed out at the second reading stage and in the tables which reviewed the people on low incomes and in poverty in this community- is that the unemployed group, particularly the unemployed families, stay in their poverty track because of their low income entitlement, the low allowable income they can earn and the harshness of the means test which is applied to them. They stay in this difficulty because of the absence of the availability of fringe benefits. Under the health scheme we have the disadvantaged patients' scheme which is implemented at the whim of the doctor. These people can, if they are lucky, be treated as disadvantaged patients by doctors. If they are lucky, if they do not have a lot of children, if they have a means of getting there and waiting around, they can go to a public hospital. 
One wonders whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has investigated a scheme whereby at least long term unemployed people could either receive fringe benefits or some recognition that they are unemployed. The medical profession, in my opinion, would then be obliged to treat them as disadvantaged patients. They would not have this extra burden of health costs which, if the patients are not in a suitable area or not near to public health facilities, may mean them taking some of their meagre income to pay health insurance costs. The surveys carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that a disturbing number of the percentage of the people on unemployment benefit have to contribute to voluntary health funds for their own peace of mind and protection. 
I seek an explanation from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  of the necessity for change proposed by clause 26. One assumes that it means that people have been bringing children into this country after adopting them in other countries under conditions and laws not acceptable under the laws of this country; when they have got the children here they have been claiming a double orphan's pension. Under what circumstances can people in fact bring a child into this country when the child has not been adopted in accordance with the laws of this country? What progress is being made with inter-country adoption negotiations to stop this sort of thing? How many people have actually brought children in under their care as adopted children and then claimed a double orphan's pension when they have got here? 
-The Opposition opposes clause 35. It repeals the whole of section 107 of the principal Act and substitutes for that section a proposed new section which in short provides that people who are unemployed as a result of industrial action by members of their same union even though the industrial action may not be in the same plant, same town or same State, shall be deprived of unemployment benefit. Section 107 of the present Act provides in part that a person who satisfies the Director-General that he is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike shall qualify to receive an unemployment benefit. In other words, a person who is out of work as a result of a strike, but not by his being a direct participant in it, shall receive an unemployment benefit. It has been interpreted that a member of a striking union or unions at a establishment where there is an industrial dispute is not eligible for unemployment benefits. Members of that union whose members at other establishments are stood down, have until now been eligible for an unemployment benefit. Members of unions at an establishment where members of other unions have been stood down have been in the past eligible for unemployment benefits. 
Proposed new section 107 (4) (ii) excludes non-trade-unionists stood down in an industrial dispute from receiving unemployment benefit. In other words, if a person is not a trade unionist and is stood down he cannot be refused unemployment benefit. Proposed new section 107(4) gives the Director-General the discretion to refuse unemployment benefit to a unionist taking industrial action. The definition of 'industrial action ' is: 
the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to work, a result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of work; 
a ban, limitation or restriction on the performance of work or on acceptance of, or offering for, work; or 
a failure or refusal by a person to attend for work or a failure or refusal to perform any work at all by a person who attends for work, but does not include the performance of work in a manner, the adoption of a practice, a ban, limitation or restriction, or a failure or refusal, that is authorised by the employer of the person concerned; 
What this means is that unemployment benefit is in fact entirely at the discretion of the DirectorGeneral or the Director-General's delegates, as is the definition of 'industrial action'. This is entirely at the discretion of the Director-General. Whether the action is a go-slow, work to rule or any other industrial protest, short of strike action constitutes industrial action and therefore penalises stood-down employees is entirely at the discretion of the Director-General of the Department of Social Security. I can find nothing in the Act or in the Social Services Amendment Bill which requires the Director-General to accept the definition from the Department of Industrial Relations, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or any arbitral body or anybody else. It is entirely at his discretion. 
-Yes, I have read the definition, but I think that  Senator Cavanagh  will accept that it is pretty wide. The definition of a trade union in this Bill is also very wide because it includes a deregistered union and any organisation, association or any group of employees together working for the employment of its members. One could imagine that it could include any group of people which has got together for any purpose. The whole proposal is restrictive and is completely at the mercy of the DirectorGeneral 's discretion. It has the effect, in fact, of refusing unemployment benefit to any unionist whose fellow members of that union are stood down as a result of industrial action. That may happen in quite a different establishment. It may be in another State. It may be hundreds of kilometres away. The unionist who is stood down and who is refused unemployment benefit may be completely ignorant of the strike or industrial action that was taken in the first place. He may completely disapprove of it. He may even violently disapprove of it. 
We have an incredible situation in this Bill where people in a factory, completely ignorant of the nature of a dispute in that same factory, may find themselves unable to get unemployment benefit. They may find themselves unable to get any sort of assistance, including special benefit, the most stringent of all benefits, when their work mates at the next bench or their neighbours in the next house, who happen to be a member of a different union, may be completely eligible. If the spouse of a worker is not involved in the industrial action she can claim unemployment benefit at the single rate, if she can pass the work test. If she makes herself available for work and if she registers at the Commonwealth Employment Service, provided she does not have a stack of kids to look after at home, or even if she has, she can claim unemployment benefit on passing the work test, but of course she has a seven-day waiting period. If she thinks that she should stay home and look after her children- and we are assured by people such as  Senator Walters  that mothers should stay home and look after their children- and she cannot pass the work test, she may qualify for special benefit. But as anyone who has had anything to do with this business knows, the stringent tests on special benefit are so severe that it would mean that a person would have to have insufficient money in the house for a week. 
I read in the second reading speech all the comments by various people in the community who did not think much of this proposal- people such as the honourable member for Casey,  Mr Falconer,  of the Government Members Industrial Relations Committee;  Senator Hall,  who was once a Liberal in this place; the editorialists in the  Age,  the  Canberra Times  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  of recent weeks, all of whom condemn this legislation because what it is doing is making the innocent suffer when they have no control over the situation at all. It is using the Social Services Act to carry out the Government's misguided industrial relations policy. It will not achieve what it sets out to achieve, which, as I understand it, is apparently to stop trade unionists doing what they are entitled to do, that is, withdraw their labour when they consider the situation warrants it. It will not stop trade unionists doing that, and this sort of restrictive behaviour never has. In the past people have considered this situation. When  Dr Myers  considered the administration of unemployment benefit he made this firm recommendation: 
That the Government consider the drafting of an amendment which would relieve the Director-General of the responsibility for interpreting what was then section 107 (c) (a) of the Act by clarifying in this context the terms direct participant ' and 'strike'. 
The Government has in fact widened the terms of 'strike', giving the Director-General of Social Services the responsibility for the interpretation, and has given him far more responsibilities and extended the number of people who can be denied benefit should there be a stand-down. This situation is unfair, it is unjust and it will not work. The only real justification for it that one has heard in either House is the sort of justification we heard from  Senator Walters  last night, and from  Mr Burns,  and  Mr Adermann  in another place- that the McKenna rules, which were brought into this country in 1947 under special circumstances for special situations, provided that in some circumstances people could be refused unemployment benefit at times of a strike if they belonged to the same union as those on strike. They were what they were. They were rules. They were not legislation; they were real rules. They were brought in under special circumstances and were used very rarely. They were used not at the discretion of the DirectorGeneral, but were used by the Government. 
I would merely make the comment that this sort of nonsense argument does not impress me and does not impress any of the other people who have commented on it. In this country we do not govern by historical imperative. If we take  Senator Walters'  argument to the extreme, we will go back to 1908 and stop paying old age pensions. In those days pensions were considered bad for the morale of the community. We will go back to 1912 and not give assistance to women who are having children. Perhaps we will go back to 1 946, 1 947 or whenever it was, and stop paying assistance to people in tertiary institutions. Perhaps we will go back to the 1930s and stop paying any unemployment benefits at all, if that is the son of thing we are going to judge the legislation on. This is 1 979, and I would certainly not introduce legislation whereby innocent people would be deprived of what is their right, as the  Age  newspaper said, because of a government 's obsession with making an issue of industrial relations. 
Despite what  Senator Walters  said last evening, I am not in favour of paying unemployment benefits to people who are on strike. In fact, I have not heard the trade union movement requesting that at all. What I am in favour of is paying people under our social services legislation unemployment benefits or special benefits, or both, when they are out of work through no fault of their own and under conditions which they could not influence if they wanted to. Industrial blackmail such as that proposed by this legislation does not work. In fact, I suggest that it makes industrial relations worse. It will not be the election issue that the Government thinks it might be. I suggest it may well create a backlash against the Government if the Government attempts to use it. People in this country have a sense of fair play and believe that those in need should receive the assistance which is their right, and that the social services legislation should not be used in such a crude manner as is proposed. 
I wish to speak again on this clause because when I spoke on it initially I spoke in a general way about the difficulties which the Government will create by using the social services legislation to carry out its industrial policy. Two difficulties are involved: The first is a humanitarian one, and the second is an administrative one, one aspect of which was just outlined by  Senator Harradine  when he explained the difficulties which will be created for the unions if this sort of approach to industrial relations is adopted. Before I mention further administrative difficulties and seek explanations from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on them, I point out again, using a different illustration, some of the problems and injustices which will arise. 
No doubt, this legislation grew out of the Latrobe Valley  Strike  in 1977 and the problems which arose for people who were stood down as a result of that strike. At the time this sort of legislation was mooted and was highly criticised. I point out that one thing which came out of that dispute was that a large percentage, something like 50 per cent, of the people who were put out of work by the strike, many of whom belonged to the same unions because a number of unions were involved in the strike, had practically no savings- I think the figure was less than $75- in the bank. As a result, an enormous burden was placed on the welfare agencies of Melbourne and of Victoria in general. 
One can remember the reports on that. In October 1979 the  Australian  reported of scuffles which broke out at the Salvation Army offices at Clayton as 500 men and women lined up for vouchers worth some $30 to buy groceries and other items to feed their families because at that time they were not able to get the unemployment benefit as a result of a deliberate policy of the Government to delay payment of the unemployment benefit. A few days later all the Salvation Army offices had to close because hundreds of people were still queueing up. People were trying to get through windows to get into the buildings to get assistance. As a result of that, the Victorian and Commonwealth governments each had to give $50,000 to distribute to relief organisations. 
Of course it was a serious situation; of course it was a difficult situation. But that type of situation will not be helped by introducing legislation which gives the Director-General the discretion to decide who is on strike and who is a member of the same union, but which gives the DirectorGeneral, on making those decisions, no discretion to determine whether the people on strike will get the unemployment benefit. That will lead to further administrative difficulties; not the administrative difficulties which will arise in individual unions, which  Senator Harradine  pointed out, but the administrative difficulties which will arise for the Director-General of Social Services, or more often for his delegates- the people to whom he delegates the power to decide. 
What will be the administrative procedure for the Director-General, a director of the Department of Social Security or an officer in a regional office to decide who is a member of a union which is out on strike and who is not? What will the situation be when one of those people says to someone who comes in for the unemployment benefit: 'Are you a member of X union'? If the persons says he is not and a director suspects that he is, will the director then go to the union office and demand the list of all the members of that union? Will that union officer give it to him? In fact, will the union officer be entitled to give him the list of all the members of that union? 
Will he be compelled to? It certainly does not seem that he will be under this legislation. The important thing about the whole of the Social Services Act is that so much of it relies on the delegation of power and the discretion of the Director-General or his underlings. This power- this operating ability- is decided by regulations and guidelines which are given to those underlings by the DirectorGeneral with the agreement, we assume, although we sometimes suspect without the agreement, of the Minister involved. When any legislation of this type comes into this placewhen any legislation giving power to a public servant comes into this place- I believe we as members of parliament should be able to look at the relevant guidelines, instructions and regulations. Certainly, before any honourable senator on either side of this chamber, no matter what his ideological bias may be, votes for such legislation, he should demand to see the guidelines and regulations. At least he should be given a careful list of the instructions on how the procedure will operate. 
As  Senator Mcintosh  interjects, unless we see them we have no idea of whether they are in existence. One suspects that they are probably not in existence yet for this legislation. I can see enormous administrative difficulties in carrying out the requirements of this clause, apart from the fact that I think it is unjust, unfair and a wrong use of the Social Services Act. Those administrative difficulties should be known to the Minister, to the Department and to this chamber. We should know how the Government intends to get over those administrative difficulties. We have been given no indication in the second reading speech or in any other utterances from the Minister of how this legislation is to be carried out. 
We have a piece of legislation- the Social Services Act which, I repeat, is meant to assist people in need. That legislation is being used to carry out an industrial policy. We believe that is a wrong use of that piece of legislation. I think it has been clearly demonstrated by  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Harradine  and others that the manner in which trade unions operate in this community- the manner in which trade unions are structured in this community- will mean that the industrial situation will not get better as a result of this legislation being enacted; in fact, it may get worse. The implications, if  Senator Harradine  is right- I have no reason to believe he is wrong- are that we may be put in a situation in which some unions will be asked to act illegally under the Government's arbitration legislation if they are to fulfil the letter of this law. The Government and Government senators should look seriously at what they are doing with this legislation and what the results will be. They should think very carefully about whether they should not take the advice of their colleagues, which was publicly given at the time of the Latrobe Valley strike, and withdraw this legislation. If the Government must interfere politically with the industrial relations of this country, at least it should do it through the industrial relations legislation and not through the social services legislation, which was not designed for the Government's purpose and will not achieve the purpose which the Government thinks it will. 
-The Opposition opposes clauses 41 and 42. Clause 41 amends section 120 of the principal Act. Under the postponement provisions of the proposed new sub-section the unemployment benefit will be withheld for a period of not less than six weeks and for a maximum period of 12 weeks if in the opinion of the Director-General or his delegate- who may be a junior officer in the Department of Social Security, as advised by a junior officer in the Commonwealth Employment Service- a person is out of work because of what is described as voluntary unemployment, misconduct of a worker or failure to accept suitable work; in other words, failure to pass the work test. 
The amendment makes the minimum period of postponement six weeks which, on the basis of the present benefits, would mean a penalty of $347.40 for a single unemployed person and $579 for a married unemployed person. The maximum period of 12 weeks involves a penalty of $694.80 for a single unemployed person and $1,158 for a married unemployed person. These are pretty severe penalties for breaches of an Act, the interpretation of which is left entirely to the discretion of the Director-General or his delegates. Under the guidelines the offences are vague, which I shall refer to shortly. The offence can be as little as not telephoning the Commonwealth Employment Service within a period of 48 hours and can depend on a subjective judgment of a departmental officer. 
One will expect, as happens now, that compassionate officers will try to apply the regulations sparingly. However, unfeeling officersunfortunately there are some- will have the power to deprive people of income. In the magistrates court a power of this kind would be used only in severe cases. I am talking about a minimum amount of $347 and a maximum amount of $694 for a single person. These penalties are more severe than are fines normally imposed on people for drunken driving. I understand that there is some doubt as to whether people in dire straits can be granted the special benefit if they are subject to these postponement provisions. 
Unlike pensioners, unemployment beneficiaries cannot be paid during the course of an appeal made to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal on the grounds that they believe that an officer has acted in a harsh or unfair way. To my knowledge, there are no guidelines whatever for establishing what is a good and sufficient reason for leaving a job voluntarily. I was given the example of a man who works night shift for many years and, upon reaching the age of 55 or 56 years, becomes tired and fed up with it and wants to change his employment. In some States he will be accepted as having a good and sufficient reason for leaving his employment. In others he will not. 
We believe that the Commonwealth Employment Service could well spend more of its time protecting, rather than hounding down, the unemployed. As it happens, we do not believe that there should not be a work test. We realise, as we have always realised, even when we were in government, that there may be a necessity to apply such a test. For many years the penalty applied in such circumstances was a period of up to six weeks. Recently it was extended to 12 weeks. There has always been a discretion- which 

 Senator Cavanagh and some others of us find offensive- available to the Director-General, or a delegated officer, but in fact the delay period could be one, two, three or up to six weeks, and recently 12 weeks. Now the choice is to be moved. There is to be a mandatory postponement period of six weeks. That represents a considerable penalty and the loss of a considerable sum of money. 
There has always been difficulty with this sort of provision. Welfare workers have cited often the case of the young woman working in an office who has been exploited by her employer, has had advances made to her, has left her employment but has been unable to prove that such advances were made. She may be too embarrassed to talk about them and be unable to give to the Department a satisfactory reason for leaving her employment. Such a person would lose at least six weeks unemployment benefit. That encourages what the Youth Council of Victoria describes as dubious employment practices. It encourages under-award payment in times of economic difficulty, misleading advertising, sexual blackmail, misuse of youth training subsidies and non-payment for work done on probationpractices which we should not have to tolerate in this year of 1979. A person can be considered to have failed the work test, to have made insufficient effort to obtain work if, according to the guidelines of the Commonwealth Employment Service, that person has not answered a telephone, telegram or courier message or letter within 48 hours of the date of issue. Thus, a relatively small breach would warrant six weeks suspension of benefit. 
Another guideline provides that where a client fails to report for an interview by the employer, or fails to present to the employer in a satisfactory way, an adverse work test result must be issued. There is no fairness in a system which makes such heavy fines mandatory and does not give a claimant an opportunity to explain himself satisfactorily. Harshness like this, in a time of high unemployment, when there are many more jobless than there are vacancies, is unnecessary and reflects the Government's attitude to the unemployed. Apparently it thinks that the unemployed of this country are unemployed because they are slackers or, to use that unfortunate word, bludgers, when in fact there are very few jobs around. It is a harsh and unfair attitude and we oppose it. We do not like the existing provisions that much, but we accept the fact that they have been there for a long time and in general have been applied fairly by the Department. However, this mandatory six weeks period is too harsh and puts too much power in the hands of what may be relatively junior officers. 
Clause 42 of the Bill we also find offensive and oppose. It is an extension of section 35 of the Act, which prevents unemployment benefit being paid to innocent people who are put off because of a strike in another area. It provides that special benefit will not be paid to a striking unionist- the same unionist who is refused unemployment benefit- whatever the degree of hardship which obtains. A spouse who is not a member of a striking union, or who is stood down as a member of a striking union in another establishment can receive special benefit if ineligible for unemployment benefit, but the husband or wife cannot. A spouse who is a member of the same union as his or her partner and who is stood down as a result of that partner's industrial action, even though he or she may have voted against such action, cannot obtain special benefit. So we have a period of limited work opportunity in relation to a husband or wife who may well belong to the same union. If one of them is on strike the new provision will prevent the payment of either unemployment or special benefit to both, even though they may be supporting children. They will get nothing for the duration of the strike; neither will their children. 
Special benefit, as anyone who has dealt with social security problems in this country is aware, is normally paid only when there is severe hardship. The usual guideline is that it is paid when there is in the house less than one week's money. In common with the unemployment benefit, it also attracts a seven-day waiting period. It is the hardest benefit to obtain and is available only in cases of extreme hardship. Even this benefit, with its stringent guideline, is to be refused to people- I will not go into the details again- who may quite innocently be laid off as a result of a strike somewere else. For this reason we oppose clause 42. 
Clause 41 is opposed because it is harsh and discriminatory in a time of high unemployment, or at any time. Clause 42 is grossly unfair, as was the restriction of unemployment benefit in the same circumstances, but it is especially unfair because it was placed in the Act to assist people who were suffering severe hardship. Even these people will now be unable to get the benefit. We oppose both clauses. 
I wonder whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  anticipates that there will be fewer people who will have their unemployment benefit postponed. 
-Yes. Will figures be kept as to the number of unemployment benefits that are postponed? Under the present discretion, the Director-General may postpone the benefit for up to five weeks, as well as six or 12 weeks. Under this legislation the minimum provision is the mandatory period of six weeks. Does this mean that, if the Director-General makes a judgment in terms of the subjective judgments that he makes now and considers that the penalty should be two or three weeks suspension, he will not postpone it at all? Therefore, we will have fewer benefits postponed. Does this mean that the same number will be postponed- as  Senator Cavanagh  interjected- the same number who previously may have been only suspended for up to five weeks, perhaps will be suspended for six weeks. We will then have the same number suspended for a longer period? I think that it would be interesting for us to look at this in a year's time to see what has happened to the behaviour of the Director-General and his various delegates around the community and see also how this is reflected in the figures. Does the Minister anticipate a lower number of people who will have their benefit postponed, or does she anticipate the same number but for a longer period? 
-May I have a final word on this clause without the note of sarcasm I detected in  Senator Cavanagh's  voice. Obviously the reason for this clause as was the case with clause 35, is to pander to those people on the Government side and those Government supporters who are obsessed with unemployment in this country, as well they might be, because they are incapable of doing anything about unemployment- in fact they are increasing it- and who wish to blame, as they did before they came into Government, the unemployed for the trouble that this country is in and for their own unemployment. 
From the words of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  it is obvious that there would have been no reason at all to amend this legislation in this way had the Director-General always previously applied a six-week minimum postponement period and a maximum of 12 weeks when the guidelines were changed. This clause is a gesture to pander to those people on the Government side who say that unemployment is a myth, who say that this country is populated by people who will not work, want to bludge on their mates and do all the other things alleged. The amendment will achieve nothing if, as the Minister says, there was previously in effect a minimum of six weeks postponement. All we are seeing is a repeat of the performance that we have seen since this Government came into power- this obsession every year in the social services legislation and practically every month in the Commonwealth Employment Service guidelines, to tighten up the guidelines, and change the legislation to restrict people on unemployment benefit in order to impress those of their supporters and those misguided people in the community who believe that the unemployed are unemployed because they want to be, that unemployment does not in fact exist and that there are jobs for all, despite the figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the CES, which show that there are some 25 unemployed in this country for every job vacancy available. 
-The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 and the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 should not take as long to deal with as did the Social Services Amendment Bill 1979. These Bills are not opposed by the Opposition. In fact, we welcome them. These Bills provide that lone parents, supporting parents and their dependants in this community, other than those that are excluded by an income test in the Social Services Act, will receive fringe benefits. The legislation provides for those people to receive fringe benefits. In fact, it provides for them to become holders of pensioner health benefit cards and to be entitled to free pharmaceutical benefits. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has indicated in the past, I hope that this legislation will be the forerunner of this country having a lone parents pension so that there will not be distinctions that there are now between the various types of lone parents in the community. I hope also that the lone parents pension will be based on need and not on some form of moral judgment as to the cause of the person being a lone parent. The Bill increases the amounts of the age, invalid, widows and service pensions. Lone parents will now receive the health benefits and pharmaceutical benefits that should be available to disadvantaged people in the community. 
My interest in the legislation lies in the reaction of my colleagues in the medical profession and in the reaction of the Government to that reaction of the medical profession. I am reminded of one of the national health debates we had in this place when I was sitting on the other side of the chamber and when  Senator Button  and I used to debate regularly with  Senator Baume  and  Senator Sheil  the national health legislation, the purpose of which was to bring in the national health insurance scheme. I remember an incident which was widely publicised in the medical press when, under some provocation from our side of the House,  Senator Baume  said that the medical profession would co-operate with anybody, except the Australian Labor Party. We find now that the medical profession went perilously close to not co-operating with the Liberal-National Country Party coalition in this situation. In the past, when the pensioner health benefit has been extended it has been the custom or the convention for the Government to consult with the Australian Medical Association as to the number of people who would be added to the pensioner health list. The Australian Medical Association considers that it is the best judge of who is disadvantaged in this country and who is in need of assistance; it is not the Government or the elected representatives of the people and not the welfare workers or researchers in the community who view the statistics and look at the social problems we have, but the doctors who are the best people to judge. 
When the Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced in the Budget that free medical treatment would be extended to lone parents and that they would get free pharmaceutical benefits, the reaction of the Australian Medical Association was sharp. It was annoyed because, firstly, it had not been consulted and, secondly, it did not think it was a fair thing. The Association expressed its annoyance in the  AMA Gazette  of 13 September as well as in other articles in the daily Press. The  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Dr Lionel  L. Wilson, it is said in an article in the  AMA Gazette,  reacted with indignation to the Government's announcement. The article continued: 
Doctors will be incensed', he said. 'The Government is trying to buy popularity on the cheap by giving concessions which are not the Government 's to give. 
Pensioners who hold Health Benefit Entitlement Cards are voluntarily treated by doctors at discounted fees. These fees, which are paid by the Government, are up to 1 5 per cent less than the fees determined by the Government's own fees inquiry. 
Services to pensioners eligible for health benefit cards already constitute 25 per cent of the average doctor's work load and in many practices a much higher percentage. 
The Government has no right to increase the numbers without having the agreement of the doctors in advance '. 
I congratulate the Government for taking it upon itself to decide who is disadvantaged in this community and who deserves to have pensioner health cards. I congratulate it for ignoring the outburst of the Australian Medical Association. The Australian Medical Association and  Dr Wilson  in particular, being what it is and who he is, will not make much fuss about this in the future because the Association knows quite well that its members will be very off under this provision, that a 1 5 per cent discount for a certain fee which does not involve the expense of sending out bills or the problem of bad debts is a very good deal. I congratulate the Government further because I have always believed that it was an outrageous situation that the medical profession in this country should be able to decide who is poor and who is not, and who will get concessions and who will not. 
The Government has set a very good precedent which I can assure honourable senators a future Labor government will follow. When we wish to extend the pensioner health benefits to further groups of pensioners, to raise the fringe benefit level, to enable long term unemployed people to receive treatment as disadvantaged patients or even to receive pensioner health benefit equivalents, we will introduce that legislation. We may consult out of politeness but we will not be browbeaten and stopped from introducing such a change in the future any more than the present Government has been browbeaten and stopped from introducing this change. Therefore, the Opposition supports the legislation; it supports the Government's action in its handling of the medical profession on this occasion and thanks the Government for the precedent it has set for us for the future. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. The Bill is typical of the repatriation Bills that are introduced each year with the social services legislation. It provides to the repatriation Acts changes parallel with those contained in the Social Services Amendment Bill 1979, with a few different additions because of the different nature of the repatriation system. The Bill provides for six-monthly indexation, which was introduced in the 1976 Budget.as we all know, and which was reduced to annual indexation in the 1978 Budget. The saving in a full year was estimated by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in another place to be of the order of $4m. Pensioners were given the November 1978 increase but they were not given the May 1979 increase. Despite opposition in both Houses, that change, which was contrary to the Government's promises and to its stated intentions, went through. Veterans, like pensioners, lost one indexation increase in May 1979 and the November 1979 increase is scheduled on the basis of a yearly indexation. So it is completly misleading of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to state, as she did on behalf of the Minister in another place, that this was something new and that the pension increase alone would cost something like $84m in a full year. This increase would have taken place regardless of the decision to introduce six-monthly indexation. 
In the case of repatriation pensioners, it is important to note that the December 1 978 quarter showed a high increase in the consumer price index for which repatriation pensioners wil not be compensated until November this year by which time they are already much worse off, given other increases in the cost of living and in the cost of almost every form of purchase in the community. This was compounded by the fact that repatriation pensioners in particular, but also some civilian pensioners, did not benefit by the 1.5 per cent reduction in the consumer price index which was due to changes in health insurance arrangements introduced from 1 November 1978, although those arrangements were subsequently changed in the mini-Budget of 1979. Because repatriation pensioners did not have to take out private insurance or to pay the levy before 1 November 1978, they did not benefit from the 1.5 per cent relative reduction in the consumer price index due to the changes in health insurance arrangements. The net result of this is a loss of comparative purchasing power for those pensioners not of the 2.3 per cent of the December quarter CPI increase but in fact of the 3.8 per cent in a single quarter. For single pensioners this amounts to over $2 a week and in the case of a married couple it amounts to about $3.40 a week for the December quarter in 1978 alone, which is not compensated for and will not be compensated for until November of this year. 
We can only welcome the other provisions in the legislation which increase benefits to veterans. I welcome particularly the introduction of the service pension for allied veterans, which was promised in 1 977. When I was shadow Minister for Repatriation I was responsible for having that provision introduced into the Australian Labor Party platform at the ALP's Perth Conference. Allied veterans will not be eligible to receive tax concessions, defence service home loans or repatriation and medical treatment benefits. But they will be eligible to receive income-tested service pensions and funeral benefits and may be eligible to receive a pensioner health benefit card. That is very important to people who fought with the allies, most of whom have spent many years in this country helping to make it what it is and frequently working in difficult conditions on projects such as hydro-electric schemes, railway construction work and other jobs of that type. 
We approve of the increase in the attendance allowance, which is long overdue; an increase from $14.70 to $17.50 a week for blind people and people suffering from spinal injuries; and an increase from $24.90 to $35 a week for people suffering from blindness and total loss of speech and hearing. Other increases for severely disabled amputees are welcomed, as is the increase in the orphans' allowance. So, all in all, we do not oppose the legislation. We believe that the benefits will not be worth while to the veterans who will receive them. I have only one question on a matter in the legislation which interests me. I might as well bring up that question now. It relates to clause 12 of the Bill which seeks to insert, among other things, a new section 98h into the Act. That proposed new section contains the following extraordinarily wide definition of  government-in-exile ': 
Government-in-exile', in relation to a country, includes any person, or group of persons, claiming to represent, or administer, the country or a part of the country or the people of the country; 
I merely state that that definition seems to me to be extraordinarily wide. In view of the difficulties being experienced in New South Wales, which  Senator Puplick  made clear, one could well imagine a government-in-exile for North Sydney. May I have an explanation of why such an extraordinarily wide definition is necessary? 
-These Bills are of interest to the Opposition because they demonstrate to us and to the community in general an interesting case study of how the Government works, how it makes its decisions and the desperate situations it gets into. On behalf of the Opposition I move an amendment to the Overseas Students Charge Bill 1979, which reads: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to denned criteria including priority attention to academic ability, the needs of the developing nations and the needs of  particular students'. 
As I have said, this Bill and its concomitant Bill present an interesting case study of government inaction. One first sees a government unable to control the economy, getting into economic difficulties and trying to frame a Budget for 1979-80. On the admission of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  inflation is expected to be 10 per cent this year, and from yesterday's consumer price index increase it obviously will be. Unemployment will rise. The Government has difficulty in controlling rising costs. It has broken taxation promises that were the very cornerstone of the policies on which it was elected at the last two elections. Political face-saving requires that at least some of the surcharge on tax be removed this year. This is a government whose economic policies, such as they were, have proved unsuccessful. It is a government desperate for money. 
It is confronting the taxpaying public, which is fed up with paying more taxes and receiving less government services. 
It is in this scenario that Government Ministers searched around for the least odious way to bolster the Government's coffers. Who do they seize upon but the group, amongst many others, which is unable to defend itself and which is completely disenfranchised in this countryoverseas students. We are told that the Government has decided to hit that group for roughly $6m. At this stage in the case study the Government has decided to impose fees for no other reason than to raise $6m. The Government's decision was announced in the Budget Speech in these bold terms: 
Commencing with the 1980 academic year, private overseas students who enrol at an Australian university or college of advanced education for the first time, or who change courses, will be charged between $ 1 ,500 and $2,500 per year towards the cost of their tuition. 
This charge is consistent with overseas practice where foreign students attending tertiary institutions are required to contribute to the costs of their education. The move will also assist in alleviating the current excess demand for places available to overseas students. 
This charge is estimated to yield about $6m in 1979-80 and will help to defray the costs- presently met in full by Australian taxpayers- of educating private overseas students in Australia. 
Full details of these new arrangements will be announced after consultations have been held with major source countries. 
Clearly, the implication was that the students would be charged tuition fees and would be required to contribute to the cost of paying their fees at the various tertiary institutions. Nowhere in the Budget Papers did the Government state that this decision was motivated by a desire to increase development assistance to developing countries. At all times the impost was referred to as a contribution towards the cost of tuition. 
The Budget statement made it quite clear that no discussions had been held with the countries from which the students came. Their views on the effectiveness of free education as aid or on alternative strategies have clearly not been sought. After the decision was announced in the Budget several facts became clear. Firstly, the Government had introduced the charge without consultations with the universities and colleges of advanced education on the need for the charges or the best way to go about introducing them. It was the unilateral decision of a government too harassed or too arrogant to go to the organisations affected for consultation before a decision was taken. It is just another example of how the idea of consultation has gone out of the window with this Government. 
Secondly, it became clear that, as the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  had given an undertaking not to introduce fees for tertiary courses, the charge would be made by way of a tax on a visa. Hence I am standing here speaking to this legislation because it is presented by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and not the Minister for Education. 
Thirdly, as the weeks after the Budget elapsed it became obvious that the Government had no idea about the mechanics by which the system would operate or how it had arrived at a figure of $6m. On 12 September, three weeks after the Budget decision, replies to questions from  Senator Button  in this House were couched in these terms: 
I hope in the early future to be able to introduce into this Parliament substantial details which will cover all the matters raised by  Senator Button. 
The information before the Parliament and the Bills before the Senate still fail to reveal any of the substantial details that  Senator Button  had sought at Question Time in this place. When the unfavourable reaction to this decision and the manner in which it had been implemented began to set in, the Government spokesmen started to emphasise that this decision was taken in a broader context- that of increasing assistance opportunities to overseas students. Only then was this statement brought out. The original statement was that they were to be required to make a contribution towards tuition in this country. 
It is interesting to note that this selling point was not made initially by the Treasurer. It was not in the Budget Papers. The other interesting feature of this late-found emphasis on expansion of development aid through provision of greater educational opportunity for poorer students from developing countries is that Government spokesmen have made no commitment actually to make sure that the result eventuates from this decision; that in fact assistance will be given to poorer students. In her second reading speech, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  said: 
The Government believes that these new policy initiatives will result in increased numbers of overseas students coming to Australia and improvement in selection criteria and arrangements. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs delivered a similar statement in the House of Representatives on 22 August. He concluded his remarks by saying: 
The proposed policy changes will contribute significantly to international cultural exchange and understanding. They should also provide major additional benefits to developing countries through increased educational opportunities and skilled manpower training for their people. 
The outcome can be made equitable and beneficial only if. as the Minister says, the Government commits itself to a policy of increas-ing assistance to students from poorer backgrounds in developing countries so that they can actually come here to study. This is what we are asking the Government to do. When it came to that crunch issue of just what the Minister and the Government would do, the Minister said that the Australian Development Assistance Bureau: 
. will receive additional funds for this purpose . . . 
That is, to pay the student's visa charge- 
. within the appropriate aid vote, to ensure that the overall level of assistance . . . is not reduced. 
I direct attention to the phrase 'is not reduced', which is a rather lesser statement when it comes to the matter of a firm policy commitment, when compared with the glib statements of belief made by Ministers earlier. They made a highsounding statement of belief but there has been no follow-through on policy commitment. That is just one reason why this legislation is a typical case study of the way in which this Government acts in a crisis. 
The other reason lies in the total confusion that has surrounded this policy initiative from the outset and, I suggest, continues to surround it. I have mentioned the failure of the Government to consult the universities and colleges of advanced education on this matter. The Government has admitted from the outset that it has not consulted the source countries from which the students come. The Government still refuses to reveal whether any of the developing countries which are source countries are madly enthusiastic about this Government initiative that is meant, we are told, to aid them in some obscure and, certainly as far as we know, unannounced way. We have no way of knowing just what damage has been done to Australia 's good will, particularly in South East Asia, as a result of this decision. For example, it would be interesting to know to what extent the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Department of Foreign Affairs were consulted in making this decision and whether, in fact, they approved it. Ever since what a confused decision the Government had made became apparent, Government spokesmen have gone to ground on, in fact, the Budget estimate of $6m to be raised this year from this initiative. 
It is interesting to note that the Minister, in her second reading speech in this place, made no reference to that figure. The only revenue details revealed were that the rate of charge would range between $ 1 ,500 and $2,500 and that it was estimated that three-quarters of the students affected would pay the minimum rate of $1,500. No reference was made to the number of students expected to fall within each category. No reference was made to how the figure of $6m for this year was arrived at or to whether it is still a valid estimate, in the light of all of the exemptions that the Government had to create when eventually it learned some of the facts concerning how its decision might be affected. We have had just silence, because it seems that the Government has blown it and is not willing to admit that fact. Our amendment calls for deferral of the consideration of these Bills until the Government has had time to think again about what it is doing and comes up with a proposal that is coherent enough to be worthy of our consideration. 
On 13 September  Senator Button  put before the Senate all of the problems and questions about this initiative that remained unanswered at that stage. The introduction of these Bills still leaves outstanding many of those problems and questions. The Minister, in her second reading speech, said: 
The actual charges to apply will be based on the costs of providing particular courses and will be: Students undertaking a master's or Ph.D. Degree will be charged $2,500 per annum; students undertaking a medical, veterinary science or dentistry course will be charged $2,000 per annum; students undertaking other award courses will be charged $1,500 per annum. 
I wonder whether it is correct to say that it costs more to educate a Ph.D. or master's degree student doing a thesis than to educate a medical student, with all of the use of capital-intensive teaching aids that such a course entails. Can the Government and the Minister provide us with details concerning the actual relative costs of these courses and how these figures were arrived at. The Government has not elaborated on its decision to exempt from the charge holders of postgraduate awards of a minimum value of $3,500 per annum. Why was that value determined? What number of award holders falls above and below that figure? In relation to those awards, to what extent will any aim of assisting poor students be lost and result in these stipends going to wealthier students? 
In her speech, the Minister said that an exemption from the charge would be given to students who entered subject to an approved reciprocal exchange agreement between Australia and overseas countries. However, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs said in his Press release on the matter that the exemption would be given only to students on fully reciprocal agreements. Is this a last-minute shift in policy or are the only arrangements to be approved to be those in respect of which students are subject to fully reciprocal agreements? 
Another matter of concern to the Australian Labor Party is how this policy will affect the efforts of international aid organisations and private groups such as Rotary and the Council of Churches in providing aid by supporting students to study in Australia. These Bills will create a very sizable financial barrier to organisations which bring students to Australia for that purpose. Such efforts, we believe, have brought Australia much international goodwill and it is a pity that the Government apparently has not seen fit to create an exemption in respect of such activities. 
I also draw the Senate's attention to the problems with the transitional provisions that relate to changes in course. The Minister's speech gives no indication who will arbitrate the question of a change in course. Will it be the education institution? Will it be the Commonwealth Department of Education or will it be the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? No Government spokesman has cleared up the matter of the student who has initially enrolled, because of quotas, in a course not of their first choice, with a view to changing courses at a later time. This is seen in a student changing from an arts course to law or from a science course to a medicine course. That is seen very commonly in our universities. Will this move, which is a very common one, be regarded as a natural progression or as a change of course? 
In conclusion, the Opposition asks that this Bill be deferred until these questions that I have raised have been answered and until the Government puts before the Parliament, before the people of this country and before the people from whom we get our overseas students a proposal that comprehensively deals with the problem of education as aid. Accordingly I repeat the motion which I moved at the beginning of my speech: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to defined criteria including priority attention to academic ability, the needs of the developing nations and the needs of particular students'. 
Until we get a comprehensive statement of what the Government intends to do, such legislation as this which is obviously conceived in haste- its mechanism of operation obviously has been changed several times since it was first announced in the Budget- should be deferred until we all know what the Government is thinking and what its intentions are in the future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
1 ) Is  Mr A.  G. Hartnell, a  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, currently working at the Sydney Law firm, Allen, Allen and Hemsley 
Is  Mr Hartnell  on leave without pay from the Department; if so, for what period. 
Is  Mr Hartnell  still a member of the Trade Practices Act Review Committee which advises the Minister on the operation of the Trade Practices Act 1974 and recommends amendments to that legislation. 
Is  Mr Hartnell  currently drawing any salary from the Australian Government. 
Has  Mr Hartnell  given the Minister any undertaking that his knowledge of possible changes to the Trade Practices Act and other regulatory legislation, gained in his previous departmental activities, or in his current position on the Trade Practices Act Review Committee, will not be used to the advantage of the clients of Allen, Allen and Hemsley. 
6 ) Is  Mr Hartnell  expected to return to the Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
What children's services projects have been approved in each electorate in each year from 1976-77 to 1978-79; 
) What were the costs of these projects for each electorate in each year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What has been the cost, to 29 August 1 979, to the Department of Social Security, of the assignment of Social Security staff to support and care for witnesses and potential witnesses: (a) who have been brought back from Greece; and (b) who were already in Australia, in the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
What other costs are being borne by the Department of Social Security in respect of the Court proceedings and the support of witnesses. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) How many pensioners have had telephone rental concessions cancelled since the Government began its full-scale investigation into pensioners ' eligibility. 
What is the estimated yearly saving made by such cancellations. 
What is the estimated cost of granting such telephone rental concessions to people on sickness benefits for longer than six months. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact, as reported in the Press, that she informed either  Mrs Pearl  Logan, the State  president  of the women's section of the Queensland branch of the National Country Party, or a women's committee of that party, that the Government was considering lifting from $6 to $20 a week the permissible income of a person receiving the unemployment benefit? As this measure would be of great assistance to the unemployed in this country and has been advocated by many groups in the community, and as the work these people would be able to do as a result of this incentive would be of great benefit to the community, will the Minister arrange for this reform to be implemented as soon as possible and arrange for the Parliament to be informed of the progress in this matter? 
by leave- As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare which brought down the report on evaluation in Australian health and welfare services, and as a member of the Opposition, I wish to contribute something to this debate. I must say that I share with  Senator Baume,  who is the  Chairman  of the Committee, his pleasure- if that is what it can be called- at the fact that we have had a response to this report within six months. I cannot exactly share his confidence as to future responses to the report and future actions to the findings of this report. I cannot be as happy with the statement as he naturally is, being a Government supporter. There are some aspects of the statement of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the responses to the report which I would like to mention. 
It certainly is pleasing to read in the Minister's report that the Government at last recognises the importance of the gathering and processing of data and the setting of goals and standards in the welfare field. As  Senator Baume  has said, we largely operate blind in this area. We do not collect data. When we do collect it, we frequently do not process it. We rely too much on organisations outside the Government sphere and outside the public area, to evaluate and assess the data that we collect. All too often the data that is collected is locked up in the bureaucracy somewhere. It is not available to members of this Parliament and it is not available to the public or the researchers in this community. It is disappointing to me that the Minister's response is as defensive as it is. The response of the Minister and of the Department immediately after the report came down was very defensive. It is unfortunate because, if we are going to remain so defensive about reports of this type, we will not achieve much in this community. 
The aims of this Committee were to examine the extent, the quality and quantity of evaluation in this community, particularly in the health and welfare field. The Committee did not, as the 

 Chairman pointed out, try to evaluate individual programs. It did not try to determine, as the Minister implies in her statement, which of these programs were out of control and ineffective. The report of the Committee does not cast judgment on any welfare or health program in this community. The Committee says that it does not know how effective the programs are. We do not know how effective they are because we have not evaluated them and there has not been any continuous evaluation of most of them. In fact, we have not collected the data to enable us to evaluate them. That is what the Committee meant by the health and welfare system being out of control. That is quite clearly what is spelled out in the report. We have no control over the system because we do not know exactly what the system is doing. Frequently we do not know who is being affected and in what way they are being affected by the various programs. I wish to comment on the Minister's statement which appears on page 123 of the report. It is a statement which, I believe, has already been quoted by  Senator Peter  Baume. It reads: 
Over the past four years the Government has, in fact, reviewed very carefully every health and welfare program. No government has carried out a more rigorous assessment of its programs or initiated more community consultations and continuing research. It has introduced more efficient administration arrangements. It has given priority to those in need and has introduced important health and welfare programs. 
With due respect, I believe that that statement is not accurate. I believe that that statement is largely nonsense. For evaluation to be effective and to be able to judge welfare programs to be effective, first of all we have to have the data to enable us to ask the right questions and get the right answers. We simply have not had this. The Government has reviewed very carefully expenditure in the health and welfare field, but only to the extent that it has reviewed these programs to see where it can cut Government expenditure. It has not reviewed, because it cannot review, with the mechanisms which we have available at the moment, the effectiveness of these programs. It has certainly, as the Minister says, carried out a rigorous assessment of its programs, but only to the extent that it was seeking to cut down Government expenditure, to get Government expenditure down in this area. I would suggest that the results of those expenditure cuts have not been to give priority to those in need and have not resulted in the introduction of important health and welfare reforms. 
Where there have been some evaluations- if there have been some evaluations- neither the public nor the Parliament will know about them, because they have not been made public. For us to sensibly judge and sensibly look at the programs, we must know what evaluations have been done and we must know the facts. Let me have a look at some of the things that have been done in the last four years to demonstrate this. At the end of April 1976 the Minister opened a national conference of the Australian Assistance Plan to, in her words: 
. have an open forum ... for views that could constructively be put forward for the future. 
We had a conference. We had reports on the evaluation of the Australian Assistance Plan. Three weeks later, despite favourable evaluations, that program was abolished quite suddenly in an announcement at a meeting of State Ministers. The recommendation was that the States take it over. The Commonwealth never did anything in the Commonwealth territories which were its responsibility. We had evidence that the Australian Assistance Plan, as inefficient as it was in some areas, however did fulfil many of the criteria of need which the Committee talked about. But the Government sank the plan. The Government abolished the program quite contrary to the evaluations that we had and put nothing in its place. With due respect, it never consulted the community groups before doing so. In the case of the AAP, it did not meet any of the criteria of that paragraph which I quoted from the Minister's statement. 
We had the welfare rights officer program. This is another program which was set up as a pilot study for three years. That has now been scuttled. It never cost more than $ 100,000 a year. The evaluations that we have had have been laudatory. We heard at the Estimates Committee that it was effective. It was abolished without consultation with the client groups, which were mainly ethnic organisations. They found out, by applying for next year's money, that it was no longer in existence. The words used by the staff of the Sydney office were: 'The welfare rights program is dead'. The ethnic welfare rights officers were first transferred to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs from the Department of Social Security. Certainly some of them have been given other grants. Certainly the lone parents' grants which were included in this program were incorporated into the children's services. The fact remains that this was a successful and thoroughly evaluated pilot program. It was one of the few that was. It was closed down without consultation with the groups that were affected. 
The homeless persons' assistance program is another program where the evaluation process has not been what it should. We know that it has been continually evaluated. The only reason we know this is because the homeless persons' organisations which are receiving the grants tell us that they are being continuously evaluated. They are told they have been evaluated. Officers are taking part in evaluations of this program, but the Parliament and the public have never seen the results of this evaluation. Until two weeks ago the people involved in the homeless persons' program did not know whether it would continue. It has been limping along on a year to year basis. At last it has been put now on a continuous basis. We do not know why we have never been given the results of any evaluations that have been carried out by the Government. I believe that the evaluations that were done probably had nothing to do with the continuation of the program. If we are going to evaluate these programs, if we are going to look at how effective they are and how clients are served by them, then this Parliament should know and we should have some idea of what is going on. 
Data gathering and the processing of that data constitute another important area. What has happened in that area since 1976? In 1976 the Social Welfare Commission was abolished. Some of us were unhappy about that, but it was abolished. It was the only body in this country that had really taken an overview of welfare services. It was the only body that had tried to provide adequate data for planning and policy purposes. This was something that we knew created problems for it. We were told in August 1976 that a social welfare research centre would be established at the University of New South Wales to perform the functions of the Commission which was abolished four years ago. For the last three years nothing has happened. Three years have passed without data collection, let alone the processing of it. We have been told that it will start again in 1 980. It has taken four years to get that part of the Social Welfare Commission's programs off the ground. 
We were told that there would be an effective mechanism for co-operation and an interchange of ideas with groups interested in the welfare field. We were told that the National Consultative Council on Social Welfare would play an important part in that and that important consultations and evaluations would take place. That may have occurred, but how do we know? The Parliament does not know and the public does not know. Not even the groups whose members are represented on that Consultative council know. They are not allowed to report back to their groups and their considerations are not reported to the public or to the Parliament. When one hears rumours one can only suspect that in fact the setting up of the Council was a public relations exercise and has little to do with the independent evaluation and advice which we were told would be its function when the Social Welfare Commission was abolished. 
One can only look at the Government's data. I am pleased that the Government apparently intends to take greater notice of the importance of processing census data in the future. We know that we need much more data and much more efficient data. Other honourable senators and I have asked questions on matters that we believe would be essential in the planning of any future welfare priorities and programs, but over and over again we get the reply- it was given to me three times today- that the information is not available or that the information is too difficult to obtain. 
I find it difficult to understand how the Minister can really put in her statement that over the past four years she has very carefully reviewed every health and welfare program and that no other government has carried out a more rigorous assessment, et cetera. 
In the health field alone we have had four major and several minor changes to health insurance programs. We have had changes to hospital funding. We have had the Hospital and Health Services Commission abolished. Currently there is obviously considerable controversy and confusion in the community and, I would suggest, in the mind of the Government about what the Government is to do about health insurance. We have had one public result of a review. Changes have been made without explanation and without any evidence as to why they should have been made. Again and again we have had changes revoked and new ones introduced. This is not the way to develop a rational health insurance program. It is not the way to develop a rational welfare program. It is not the way to develop confidence in the people of this community. 

 Senator Baume said that we do not really know how effective the expenditure on children 's services or family allowances is. I suggest that we have had no real evaluation of the justification for retaining, say, the unemployment benefit for those under 18 years of age at $36 a week. Despite attempts by myself and other members of this place, we have had no justification for the failure to index unemployment benefit for those people over 45 years of age who have no dependents. We have had no evaluation of how they will survive. We have just been told that these changes are budgetary decisions. I suggest that that has nothing to do with what this report is talking about and has nothing to do with evaluation. It has nothing to do with helping any of us in this place to judge the effectiveness of welfare programs. 
We are now told that the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat is taking part in some important evaluations. I would like to see some evidence of that. It is like the old Income Review Committee to which everything was referred, but we never saw any results of any evaluations or judging of programs. It seems to me that the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat is to provide work on policies that the Government is putting up, and that in fact we will not have independent policies or independent evaluation of programs. The consultative committees also will make recommendations to the Government but we do not have the recommendations before this Parliament. We are not in a situation to judge just what the Government is doing. What evaluation there is is kept from this Parliament, is kept from the public, is certainly kept from the clients who receive welfare assistance and is certainly kept from those who are charged with delivering welfare services. 
If the Government continues to conceal what evaluation is done and if it continues to accept that what is going on now as a rigorous and careful assessment of its health and welfare programs, I suggest, as in the past, we will get nowhere. The Committee 's report may be in vain except in the admittedly important area of data gathering. I hope that in the future we have more evidence and a more serious look at evaluation and welfare planning in this country. Otherwise, as the committee said, we will continue to be out of control because we do not know what is going on. I do not mean that we will be out of control to the extent that programs will run wild or that programs will necessarily waste money. It may be that most of the programs are highly effective. The Committee came to the conclusion that it just did not know what was happening. The Government deliberately misinterpreted the phrase 'out of control' and suggested that the Committee was lax in not producing evidence to back up that statement in regard to individual programs. I suggest that the Government deliberately misjudged what the Committee set out to do and what the Committee has reported about. 
I wish to speak briefly on this subject as one who, since I came into this Parliament and before I arrived in this Parliament, has been concerned with the drug problem and the way in which we treat it in this country. I feel it important to start by pointing out that one of the things which those of us in this Parliament who have been concerned about drugs and drug trafficking have expressed concern about over and over again, particularly in the reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare on drug trafficking and drug abuse in this country, is that debate on this subject and consideration of it should be carried out in an unemotional and rational way. We are dealing with criminals, with men and women who are working for huge profits, unemotional and cold men and women. 

 Senator Chipp warned us early in his speech tonight that he might be emotional; he certainly was. He told us that there has been a conspiracy to finger the Federal Narcotics Bureau- a conspiracy which I assume involves  Mr Justice  Williams, who brought down the interim report of his Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs; a conspiracy which, I assume involves members of the Government and the Cabinet, in view of  Senator Chipp  's remarks on the way in which the inquiry was allegedly carried out; a conspiracy which I assume involves members of the Commonwealth Police and the new Federal Police, as well as the criminals whom he is so concerned about and speaks about. He said that it all started in June; that people became concerned in June. I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, which produced a report called 'Drug Problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?' on 25 October 1977. The Committee had this to say about the Narcotics Bureau at page 1 77 of its report: 
One's view of the effectiveness of the Bureau must depend on one's understanding of the role it is expected to fulfil. If the role is seen in terms of the quantity of heroin seized, the functions of the Bureau can be said to have been achieved with distinction. However, if the role is seen in terms of the interdiction of imports and supplies available for illicit use in Australia, the Bureau can be said to have failed. By its own account, it sees an increasing supply of imported heroin as likely to be available in spite of its energetic and dedicated attempts to interrupt supply routes and importation. 
The Committee recommended: 
That the functions of the Australian Narcotics Bureau and relevant State and Territory law enforcement agencies be expressed in terms of community patterns of drug use, and that failure to affect these patterns appropriately be considered prima facie evidence of inadequate performance requiring re-evaluation of the roles, structures and funding of such agencies. 
The Narcotics Bureau undoubtedly by and large is composed of dedicated and concerned men and women. On the evidence the Committee had, the Narcotics Bureau certainly was well motivated and certainly tried hard. I suggest that the Narcotics Bureau has not affected to anywhere near the extent to which it should have the introduction of illicit drugs into this country, the use of illicit drugs in this country, or in fact the trafficking in illicit drugs in this country. The situation was evaluated by  Mr Justice  Williams in his report. In the interim report of which I have a copy, which certainly is not as large as  Senator Chipp  's report,  Mr Justice  Williams has given compelling reasons as to why the Narcotics Bureau could not continue in the manner in which it was constructed under existing legislation; how the Bureau could not continue in the way in which it was going; how it spent so much of its time defending itself and its image; how over 90 per cent of its heroin seizures in 1 977 and 1978 were of less than 100 grams, when the seizure of quantities of less than 5 grams represented over 60 per cent of its seizures in 1 978 and 70 per cent of its seizures in 1977. This is absolute peanuts when we look at the problems facing us in drug trafficking. Drug trafficking, heroin trafficking, in this country has recently involved murder, very senior former members of police forces and increasingly sophisticated methods of operation. It is obvious to many people that this is a very serious police problem involving a co-ordinated effort throughout this country, throughout the States, and involving none of the backbiting and none of the rivalry which  Senator Chipp  quite rightly mentioned has been occurring in the law enforcement bodies trying to deal with drug trafficking in this country. 

 Mr Justice Williams has recommended coordination and the Government will attempt to co-ordinate the activities against drug traffickers- to co-ordinate the whole operation in this country- because we are dealing with ruthless and sophisticated men. We could not go on doing it the way we have been. The Australian Labor Party has recommended this sort of approach for many years now. It has recommended that we have a serious look at the approach that the Government is to take. We wanted to set up the equivalent of the Australian Federal Police when we introduced legislation concerning an Australian police force so that we could get a more co-ordinated Commonwealth crime fighting force in this country. 
I am aware that  Senator Chipp,  having been present at the birth of the Federal Narcotics Bureau, has a considerable emotional attachment to it. I am aware, that the sort of publicity that the Bureau has had in its efforts to improve its image, obviously, has affected  Senator Chipp  considerably. I do not think that he does this place any service by suggesting that there is an obvious and great conspiracy between the judge and everyone involved in this area to finger the Narcotics Bureau and to get rid of it. The simple fact of the matter is that on any judgment of the drug scene in this country the Narcotics Bureau has not been effective. The drug scene is increasing. Drug use and importation are increasing. The sooner we get a co-ordinated effort and a more professional, unemotional and rational approach to this problem the better off this country will be. 
Personally, I do not think that the reorganisation of the drug detection and prevention bureau of this country into what the Government intends and what is suggested in this report is the whole answer. We will not change the drug scene in this country by performing this act. We will not change the attitude of the criminals. We will not change their efforts to make huge profits and to trade in human misery. I hope that this sort of approach by the Government will not mean that it will ignore the need for education, proper prevention and treatment and the need to change the attitude to drugs in this community which is probably at the base of our whole problem. 
I welcome any effort to improve the police function, the detection function and the prevention function which is something that the Government is trying to do. Whether the 
Government succeeds or whether  Sir Colin  Woods succeeds, we will have to judge. The important point is that we evaluate what happens as a result of this action. When we have carried out an evaluation, we will see whether there has been success and make our judgments. 
On any judgment of what has happened in this country, the Narcotics Bureau, no matter how well intentioned it was and no matter how hard its members worked, has not succeeded. The members of the Narcotics Bureau will be able to go into the new Federal Police set-up and should be able to contribute with members of the Federal Police to the attack on organised crime which is conducting the drug trafficking in this country. Members of the Narcotics Bureau will not necessarily be thrown on the scrap heap. Any suggestion that they will be will be viewed askance certainly from this side of the House and one assumes that  Senator Chipp,  from the inside information that he obviously has, will let us know about it. But let us not condemn this action which has resulted from a considered report of a royal commissioner. Let us view it as a step forward in an attempt to have a rational and proper control of the drug trafficking system in this country. Let us conduct the debate in future without the sort of emotionalism that we have had from  Senator Chipp  tonight. 
-I have a double interest in this matter. I have spoken many times in this place about the need for proper quarantine measures to be taken in this country.  Mr Antypas  also happens to be a neighbour of mine and I have known him for many years. Although I support some of the comments by  Senator Watson  I must say at the outset that the necessity for the action taken by the authorities in Tasmania and the great speed with which they took their action should be observed in any case such as this. Simply, what happened was that the pigs did have a vesicular disease and there was a suspicion that this disease may have been foot and mouth or a similar vesicular disease such as swine vesicular fever. In those circumstances it is absolutely essential that the animals be slaughtered even though there is only a suspicion that the disease may be foot and mouth or another exotic disease, that the property be quarantined and that the police take action. It is absolutely necessary that investigatory action be taken by the quarantine and agricultural authorities. 
I question the methods used by one group of investigating agents. I am in the process of writing to the proper authorities about that. I question the method used, not the actions taken and the intent of them. I think that firstly I must say that the authorities acted promptly. They had to act promptly. In my view it was not the fault of the authorities that the matter was reported in the Press in the way it was. The Press in this country and in other countries frequently makes the mistakes of detail that  Senator Watson  mentioned. It was not the fault of the authorities that the reporting was of the nature that it was. It was essential that the Federal and Tasmanian governments and their authorities should have informed the public of the reason for the very drastic action that was taken. I have considerable concern for the community attitude since. I will come to that in a minute. I have spoken about this publicly in Tasmania, as some honourable senators know. It was essential that this important action be taken and taken promptly. If the disease had been foot and mouth or swine vesicular fever we could have put the shutters down on the agricultural industry, particularly the pig and cattle industry, in Tasmania, and in fact in Australia as a whole. 
One cannot blame countries such as New Zealand, Malaysia and others that banned the import of Australian meats until they were quite clear on what the situation was. This country would have done the same if a similar incident had occurred in New Zealand or anywhere else. We cannot blame the State of Victoria for banning the importation of pig meat from Tasmania. Had the authorities hidden the nature of this suspected disease from authorities overseas or other States of Australia, they would have deserved condemnation and we would have condemned them. 
The second matter about which  Senator Watson  was worried and one which concerns me is the very real need for adequate and proper compensation. One cannot complain about the promptness with which both governments have acted in determining that compensation should be paid and in getting independent authorities to assess the value of the cattle, pigs and outbuildings involved on  Mr Antypas  's farm. Whether the independent people who were brought in were in an adequate position to judge the proper value of the pigs is a question about which I am not certain.  Senator Watson  seems to think that perhaps the market value would have been more adequately assessed by people who had more knowledge of the marketing of pigs. I repeat  Senator Watson's  warning that it is absolutely essential in cases like this that compensation be paid, that it be adequate, and that it be seen to be adequate. Otherwise our quarantine measures in this country will fall down. 
We are no longer the isolated country that we were. We can expect to get exotic diseases in animals. We have had them in recent years. We have had Newcastle disease in fowls. We must make sure that our quarantine methods are effective and that they can be implemented quickly. The only way in which we can do this is to have farmers and primary producers report promptly any suspicious diseases in their animals. As  Senator Watson  has said, they will not do this if they think they will not get adequate compensation. I think it is worth while doing what  Senator Watson  has suggested- investigate the adequacy of the compensation for the cattle and the pigs that has been paid to  Mr Antypas  and his family. I certainly think that a proper investigation into the compensation paid for the outbuildings is warranted. I know of the outbuildings. I know that they were not the most modern. I know that they were not the fanciest outbuildings that one has seen on a farm anywhere, but they were the sorts of outbuildings which are common on properties. They serve a purpose and cost a lot money to replace. I know, for instance, that in recent years $3,000 was spent on concrete floors in buildings on this farm that were destroyed. The concrete was ripped up. If $3,000 was spent on concrete recently, it will certainly cost more than $6,400 to replace the buildings that have to be replaced. Therefore I think we must look at a realistic replacement value for the buildings. I certainly have doubts as to whether the value put on them by the authorities in this case is adequate. 
I am no expert on what sort of compensation should be paid for loss of wages, loss of income, but I think that if we are going to learn anything from this little exercise we certainly should look carefully at the amount of compensation that has been calculated and paid in this case. As  Mr Antypas  intends to continue with his pig production I think it is important, especially as we can expect further cases like this, that we learn from any mistakes which may have been made in this case as far as compensation is concerned. 
I make one brief final remark about the community's attitude in this case. I have been disappointed, and have expressed my disappointment, at the attitude of some people in the local community, people who should have known better, people who are considered to be people of substance in the community. The sorts of stories which I heard and which prompted me to say something publicly in Tasmania should not have been uttered by the people who uttered them. The sort of rumour mongering which has gone on because this man has been in the difficult situation in which he has been, and perhaps even because he was not Australian born, reflects the sort of xenophobia that we should not see or experience in this country. One can expect rumours, but one should not expect the sorts of rumours that have gone around about this man and his family. He has suffered an enormous blow in a very short time. To my knowledge, in the past he has been a good citizen. To my knowledge, as I have said in another place, he has supported a very poor family by feeding it and by helping clothe the children when others in the near community were not so concerned. He has been a large pig producer in the area. He has received high prices for his stock on the local market and for 20 years has worked and built up an important farm in the district. I certainly, join with  Senator Watson  in not decrying the actions taken by the State and Federal authorities because I think they were prompt and necessary. I think that such actions will be necessary in the future. As I have said, I have a quibble about the methods used by one arm of the authorities, but that is something that I will take up with them. 
I think we should look carefully at whether the compensation has been adequate, whether it has adequately compensated the man for his income and for any loss of profit that he may have had. If we do not do this properly, we will not get people reporting such problems in the future. I deplore the attitude of some members of the community and hope that, by some of us speaking out and defending the family, that sort of rumour mongering will be squashed. Although it occurs in all communities and will occur in the future, it should not happen in this day and age when such xenophobia is unbecoming a civilised community. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) What proportion of unemployed, sickness and special beneficiaries in each category with dependants paid rent, according to the sample survey conducted by the Department of Social Security in order to estimate the cost of extending supplementary allowance to all rent-paying beneficiaries. 
What proportion in each category had been in receipt of benefit for: (a) more than six weeks; and (b) more than three months. 
3 ) What is the estimated cost of paying supplementary allowance to the categories of beneficiaries in ( 2) above. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 October 1 979: 
Did social security pensioners who suffered from the collapse of Associated Securities Limited receive their last dividend interest on 3 1 December 1978. 
Did the Department of Social Security adjust those pensions from 15 February 1979; if so, why were they not adjusted from 1 January 1979, in view of the fact that no income was received by those pensioners from Associated Securities Limited after that date, 
by leave- I lay on the table a report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to France, the European Parliament and the Commission of the European Communities in May and June of 1979. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) How many projects are currently lodged for funding under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974. 
How many of them are new projects, and what are the values of the projects. 
-The Opposition, as it usually does, opposes this motion. We believe that it is absolutely unnecessary. We have no objection to returning to this Parliament and sitting in order to carry out the business of the Parliament in a normal manner and to carry out normal debate on important legislation. The Government finds itself in the situation of its business having to take precedence over General Business because of its own difficulties- because of the delay in introducing important legislation into another House and into this House and because of its failure to organise its program so that legislation can be debated and considered properly by this Parliament. We object to this procedure and honourable senators having their ability to debate matters of importance on General Business evening taken away. 
I have always and consistently objected to it,  Senator. 
-When the honourable senator was in Government previously he could have done something about it because he had the numbers but he did not care to do anything. We object because we are in a situation where this Government- it claims to be an efficient Government, to have its affairs in order and to know how to run this country- is in such a mess that it will have to rush Bills through this place and another place in the next two weeks so that various Ministers and others can get overseas and have their nice summer holiday. We do not intend to facilitate this. We intend to oppose this motion. We object to having the business of this country conducted in this way. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
Does the allocation by the Department of Social Security for emergency relief of $500,000 as grants to community welfare agencies mean that: (a) such funds will not be made available to State Governments as requested by the Council of Welfare Ministers; and (b) local government bodies will be excluded from applying for such funds, as they are not voluntary agencies. 
What consultations are planned with non-government welfare agencies to establish procedures for the distribution of the $500,000 for emergency relief. 
Have any guidelines been established so far; if so, to what organisations have they been distributed. 
What action is proposed, such as the establishment of a standing committee to provide continuing evaluation of the need for emergency relief in relation to social security payment procedures; the efficiency of new special benefit guidelines; and the effectiveness of the distribution of funds to community welfare agencies. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to a question I asked on 27 September of this year about an instruction which allegedly had gone out from her Department that in future spouses of all applicants for sickness and other social security benefits would have to attend for a personal interview at the Department when the applications were being made. Has the Minister an answer to that question? Is it a fact that such an instruction has gone out? Is it a fact that there is a standard form U38A for those seeking unemployment benefit which requests all such applicants to bring their spouses for personal interview? What is the purpose of these interviews? 
What have they to do with applications for unemployment benefit? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and follows the question asked by  Senator Thomas.  Is it not a fact that in this country at the moment, particularly in Tasmania and the Northern Territory, commercial aviation operations such as crop dusting are severely affected by the inadequate supplies of avgas? If this country has six months' supply of avgas on hand, who is controlling its distribution and what can be done to ensure that businesses such as those in Tasmania and the Northern Territory are not affected by maldistribution or by the difficulties in Iran? 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The grave concern of the Senate arising from the Indonesian treatment of the East Timorese people. 
I move the motion in the hope that this House and the Parliament eventually will express a bipartisan concern about the events in East Timor and about the situation in which a people who have close connections with Australia are suffering malnutrition, starvation and illness without the benefit of medical aid and are dying in large numbers from neglect which, until recently, has been largely hidden from the people of Australia and indeed from the people of Indonesia. I believe that the motion is a mud one and can be supported by members on both sides of the Parliament. Members on both sides have repeatedly expressed concern about the situation in East Timor since December 1 975 when part of the island was taken over by Indonesia. 
This island is close to our shores. It is only 350 miles away. It is well within the capacity of Indonesia, with Australian help, to assist and relieve the suffering of the people involved. Members on both sides of Parliament and citizens generally in this country have expressed a desire and a willingness to help the people of East Timor either directly through international agencies or through Indonesian agencies. Such help has not reached these people, firstly, because the plight of the population has not been known to most people in this community and, secondly, because the delivery of aid has been obstructed by the Indonesian authorities. 
It is no good our turning our backs on this problem any more. It is no good our avoiding expressing an opinion on it. Our relationship with neighbouring countries like Indonesia is, of course, important, but the sensitivities of the Indonesian Government should not be considered more important than the lives, the freedom, the self-determination and the health of the men, women and children of East Timor who have been sorely abused for centuries by a neglectful colonial power, who have been abandoned in the wake of a revolutionary change in that colonial power and who were then taken over by a neighbour obsessed with unreal fears that a hostile power could develop amongst the 600,000-odd people on the edge of its own country of 1 30 million people. 
The events of December 1975 have been much debated in this country and in this Parliament. Accusations have been made about the part various personalities on both sides of the national Parliament and in State parliaments have allegedly played by omission or commission in the affair of East Timor. Unfortunate statements were repeatedly made about the ideological nature of the Fretilin group which undoubtedly heightened the fear of the Indonesians. Our part as a nation in this affair is not beyond reproach, but honourable senators in this place have been prominent in keeping to the forefront the problems which have arisen in East Timor. Three honourable senators have spoken on this matter in the adjournment debate this week. These honourable senators have consistently shown a very real interest in the problem. 
I have no desire to dwell on the events of the past. Such an exercise would in fact serve no useful purpose to the people who are suffering in East Timor, but the fact remains that the Indonesians by force took over this tiny country and since then have engaged in a war of attrition against those East Timorese who resisted. The Indonesians have, until recently, allowed no access of note to the area by journalists or international relief agencies and have suppressed knowledge of events occurring in the country. We should signal our concern at these and other events to the Indonesian Government in the hope that it will listen and allow much greater relief and assistance to be provided to the people in the area. 
Certainly the reports in the Press recently have brought the whole problem to our notice. Reports from East Timor by church authorities, by diplomats last year, by journalists, by resistance forces through their radio and by letters that have been smuggled out of East Timor have given rise to a sense of uneasiness in this country about what has been going on since 1 976. Now, with the photographs brought out of Indonesia under difficulty by Peter Rodgers of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  we have graphic and first-hand evidence of what has been going on. The situation has been complicated by the occurrence of a similar and better publicised tragedy in Kampuchea. We now know that those reports are in fact true. We now know that the situation is grave. We now know that the church authorities' reports on the alarming death rate from violence and disease are true. We now know that much more could have been done with aid from this country, with aid from the international sphere generally and with aid from Indonesia. Not enough was done. We in this place can no longer remain silent about the matter. We can no longer ignore these people nearby. 
Various estimates of the number of people who have perished have been given. I do not think there is much point in going into detail about the justification for the various figures given. In some cases the Catholic Church authorities estimated some 300,000 people, or roughly 50 per cent of the population, died in the last four years. The lowest estimate one seems to be able to obtain is that 100,000 people, or 15 per cent of the population, died in the last four years. Certainly, in March 1977 when we held a debate in this place in an attempt to gain support for setting up a Senate select committee to inquire into the problems of East Timor  Mr Malik  of the Indonesian Government was talking about 80,000 people having died or having been killed in the war then going on with Fretilin. Whatever the figure, it is appalling; whatever the figure, we can do something about it; and whatever the figure, we should be able to do something to prevent it increasing in the future. We know that at least 100,000 people have died, despite the claim by the Indonesian Red Cross that it has spent $7m in relief in the past four years. 
East Timor presents a typical tragedy of modern times; of people who initially were denied freedom and development by their colonial power, then were denied self-determination by a neighbour and then, despite the willingness of others to help and despite the good will which existed, perverse national pride prevented the Indonesians admitting until now that a problem existed. Only now, when the situation is very grave, are they admitting that a problem exists and even now attempts are hampered. I have not mentioned yet but will mention later the problems caused over the last four years by the obstruction by Indonesian authorities of the refugee family reunion program. This has considerably concerned honourable senators from the Northern Territory because they have had to deal with the personal hardship which has arisen in that area. 
Why should we as a parliament speak out at all at this time? During the debate in March 1977 I suggested that if we as a nation with a small population did not speak out when we saw maltreatment of a small population group anywhere, let alone on our doorstep, we did not deserve to take our place in a community of nations. We must show an active interest in the rights of small countries and the rights of minorities of other countries. We as a Senate had the opportunity to do so in March 1 977 when my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt,  moved that a Senate select committee should be established so that we could investigate what was happening in East Timor, so that we could have a watching brief over what continued to happen in East Timor. The debate was then much longer than it will be today because the Government allowed a longer debate. It was a thoughtful debate. But the Government refused to support the motion. We had our opportunity to express our concern then; we have our opportunity to express our concern today, however belatedly. 
During that debate arguments were used against the establishment of a Senate select committee which I suggest could be used by some honourable senators- and in fact have been used to me this morning by some honourable senators- who would be opposed to our discussing a motion such as that. Such arguments were that at the time there were other examples of aggression and attrition against minority groups in countries such as Angola and Chile; that there was nothing special about East Timor; and that therefore we should not single out that area for special treatment. These arguments I dismiss now, as I dismissed them then. We should be concerned about aggression, maltreatment, malnutrition and starvation everywhere. We should be especially concerned about small groups of people in our geographical area with whom we have a special affinity arising particularly out of their assistance during the Second World War. 
We were told at the time that such an inquiry would harm our relationships with Indonesia. Some have said privately to me this morning that this motion will harm our relationships with Indonesia. I can only say that if such an expression of concern will harm our relationships with Indonesia or if an inquiry would have harmed them, those relationships are in a fairly parlous state. I have found that those who would complain about such a motion's harming our relationships with Indonesia will support vigorously the right of this Parliament to investigate the abuse of civil rights in the Soviet Union. A report on that matter will shortly be brought down by  Senator Wheeldon  and no doubt it will cause some difficulties in some of our relationships with the Soviet Union. But as a parliament or a nation we cannot allow our relationships with Indonesia or with anyone else to affect our rights and duties as parliamentarians and as humanitarians to report to the people of this community, to present to the people of this community, our concern about what is happening on our doorstep, to speak up for the people of East Timor and to request that something be done. 
A further argument used against the establishment of a Senate select committee was that it would inhibit the delivery of aid to East Timor and the ability of refugees to leave East Timor. This argument was put very strongly. The simple fact is that more than two years later aid has not reached many of the Timorese and is still not reaching them, that the land has been devastated and that refugees in Australia, particularly those in the Northern Territory, who seek to be reunited with their relatives from East Timor have been unable to get their relatives out of East Timor. We have heard repeated stories of obstruction of families leaving East Timor to rejoin their families in Australia. We have heard repeated stories of families having to pay large sums of money to get out of East Timor despite the willingness of this country to accept them. All those arguments which were used against the establishment of a Senate select committee in 1977 have been shown to be false. All those arguments about our concern for our relationships with Indonesia and for how our actions may affect what happens in East Timor have been shown to have had no effect. 
We may as well have gone ahead with the inquiry; we may as well have had a Senate select committee. I suggest that our knowledge would have been greater. I suggest that our expressed concern would have had more effect on the Indonesian Government than our relative silence since then has had. We would have been able to vet continuously the reports which have come out of East Timor and which have been collected by people such as Jim Dunn. He is known to everyone in this Parliament and is a former consul in Dili. He is a man who has great knowledge about the situation, who has collated and painstakingly collected data on the subject and who carefully collects the reports that come in. We would perhaps have taken more note of the July report of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, a responsible body, which expressed concern about the aid as it was then going to East Timor via the Indonesian Red Cross. The report summarised some of the problems that the Council found were happening in the area. It said that all aid had gone to the areas under Indonesian control only, that Indonesia was very reluctant to admit foreigners and that, when they have been there, their visits have been brief and restricted. The report added that all of the aid had been sought and given for emergency relief, not for production and reconstruction; that no thorough, independent assessment of the needs had taken place; that there had been no supervision of distribution, no implementation of an autonomous program, no evaluation of the Indonesian Government's aid program; that all of the grants had been made to the Indonesian Red Cross for its program. The report added that the Australian Government's aid was lacking not in quantity but in the management of its distribution. At that stage the International Committee of the Red Cross had not been admitted to East Timor. An example is given of what happened when an Indonesian Red Cross truck arrived at Remexio in September 1978 while the foreign ambassadors were there, in these terms 
As people rushed to receive the first clothes and nutritious food they had seen for months, home guardsmen using sticks and stones tried to form them into queues. Even so there were only enough supplies for half of them. 
Another report states: 
For example, in March 1979, five tons of corn were delivered to Maubisse where more than 6,000 people had been waiting for it for five weeks. 
That report adds: 
If there is any food at all (for very hungry and sick new arrivals), it is usually very little and comes very late. Which makes the whole aid program actual meaningless. 
The report goes on to talk about the massive corruption that is associated with aid. Others have told of difficulties in East Timor. Reports have come from all sorts of sources, but I suppose that it was only when Peter Rodgers wrote his articles, which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the  Age  and other newspapers, and produced pictures- pictures which are becoming increasingly familiar from all parts of the world- of starving people, of people sick and without care, that the great severity of the problems was brought home to most of us.  Mr Rodgers  quotes such people as  Mr Frank  Carlin, the regional director of Catholic Relief Services, who described the intensity of the East Timor problem as-  . . greater than anything I have seen in 14 years of relief work in Asia- here you see so many malnourished children that it becomes the norm. In our collective experience . . . this is the worst we have ever seen. 

 Mr Rodgers notes that officials of the International Red Cross are more wary about assessing the East Timor situation; that clearly they are sensitive to the fact that for almost four years the Indonesian Government has refused them access to East Timor. 
This motion merely asks the members of this House to express to the Indonesian Government their concern about what has happened in East Timor since December 1975, when the Indonesians invaded, and July 1976, when the area was incorporated into Indonesia. Certainly, it is a belated call for this Parliament to express its concern officially. Certainly we had the ability to do this in the past, in 1977. We did not choose to do so because, apparently, of the view that it would be better for the people of East Timor if we did not. The time has come for us to express our concern officially. Individuals have been doing it for three years. We should do it collectively now as a Parliament. The simple fact of the matter is that East Timor comprises a tiny area with a population of 600,000. It is easily accessible to Indonesia and to Australia. It is an area to which we could have given aid, food and medical care to prevent the present catastrophy from happening. We were prevented from doing so by the actions of the Indonesian Government and, because of restrictive access to the area imposed by that Government, by our lack of knowledge concerning what was happening. It is for these reasons that I believe the Senate should express the concern set out in the motion. 
-The Opposition opposes this motion as it did the last one. Standing Order 68 reads: 
No new business shall be commenced after half-past ten o'clock at night. 
Of course we note that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  gave no reason for wishing to suspend this Standing Order. I put it to the Senate that this is a very sensible Standing Order. Obviously it was introduced into this place with good reason. It is sensible that no new business be commenced after half-past 10 at night. In fact it is probably sensible that no business at all ever be done in this place after half-past 10 at night, but unfortunately we do that. As in the case of the suspension of General Business, the reason for introducing this suspension of Standing Orders is that the Government has been incapable of conducting its own business and getting its business out of the way in reasonable time. The Opposition has no objection to staying on after the next two or three weeks to deal with important legislation. We will stay here. We see no reason at all why new business should be introduced into this place after half-past 10 at night. I am surprised that the Government would care about introducing or would want to introduce new business because most members on the other side of this place are incapable of coherent thought after half-past three in the afternoon. But after half-past 10 at night that number incapable of coherent thought increases rapidly. 
It is an eminently sensible Standing Order. We have been given no reason at all why it should be suspended. We know the reason. The reason is that the Government is in a mad rush to get through legislation, most of which should have been in this place much earlier, and most of which can be introduced in the next few weeks. We are perfectly happy to stay here in civilised hours and debate the business in a civilised manner. The Government is not interested in conducting the Parliament in a civilised way, and that is why it is moving this suspension of Standing Orders. We desire sensible debate on legislation in this place. That is why we oppose this suspension of Standing Orders. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Grimes  from moving forthwith: 
That a judicial inquiry be appointed to inquire into and report upon the obtaining of the evidence in relation to the prosecution in the case of alleged social security frauds involving members of the Greek community in Sydney and, in particular: 
the circumstances relating to the use by the Commonwealth Police of listening devices and the interception of telephone conversations; 
the propriety of the person or persons who authorised use of such devices and interception procedures, including the authenticity of the evidence relied on to support such use and interception; and 
moneys that have been paid, or offered to be paid, to any person offering to give evidence and /or offering to assist the police in any way in the gathering of evidence and/or prosecution and the person or persons who were consulted in the process of making the offer, or offers, and /or payments. 
I have spoken in the Senate on matters pertaining to this issue in the past on four occasions and I have expressed concern over the conduct of the case involved since it first hit the public eye on 3 April last year. I am aware that at present there are 21 people still on trial in Sydney Central Court. I am aware that, therefore, one must do nothing to prejudice their cases or to prejudice the conduct of the case in general. But on the four occasions I have previously discussed this matter, the question of sub judice has never been brought up in anything I have said. I will continue in my attempts to avoid any reference to anything which would be considered prejudicial to the court case. I have no intention of touching on any matter which is sub judice. 
I am concerned about the manner in which information was gathered, the methods which were used to gather information and the way in which this Senate has been misled, either deliberately or otherwise, by at least two Ministers over the last 1 8 months concerning the conduct of this case. This is important. It is worth suspending Standing Orders for and it is worth a judicial inquiry. It is important not only to the people of the Greek community in Sydney, but also it is important to the Australian community generally. It is made especially important by the fact that the people involved have recently been given the power to conduct investigations into narcotics trafficking in this country and have had their powers widened considerably by their incorporation into a much larger police force than existed before. The case has always been one of great interest since it first hit the light of the day. Detective Inspector Thomas announced to the Press and to the public of this country that 1 ,000 people were going to be charged and that 300 people were going to be extradited from Greece in what was considered to be a million-dollar court case. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Was $ 1 00m saved during 1 978-79 by the payment of unemployment benefits under the new procedures introduced following the Department of Social Security's review of its systems and procedures, as the Minister predicted following the 1978-79 Budget; if not, what was the amount saved following the implementation of new methods and procedures. 
What were the estimated additional staffing and administrative costs incurred in saving the actual amount. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It follows the question asked by  Senator Wriedt  and the answer she gave to it. I ask the Minister whether she recalls claiming in Parliament last year and earlier this year that her Department was simply the processing department in the alleged social security frauds case and saying: 
Neither I nor my Department have any administrative responsibilities over the work of the police. 
I also ask her whether she recalls telling the Senate that her Director-General told her: 
Chief Inspector Thomas has stated categorically that I had no discussion whatsoever about what the police were planning to do or what they should do. 
In view of the answer that the Minister has given to  Senator Wriedt  about discussions between her Department and the Commonwealth Police, and in view of the fact that evidence was given on oath this week by Detective Chief Inspector Thomas that the Department of Social Security put pressure on him to bring the date of the first arrests forward and that the Director-General was involved as early as late 1977 in negotiating the amount of money to be paid to  Mr Chris  Nakis for information in the case, does the Minister wish to expand further or modify the claims she made in this place last year and this year or in the answer she gave to  Senator Wriedt? 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Grimes  from moving forthwith: 
That the Senate censures the Minister for Social Security for misleading the Senate in relation to telephone interceptions used by Commonwealth Police and the involvement of her Department with the Commonwealth Police in the alleged social security frauds case in Sydney. 
I move that motion under Standing Order 448, which provides that in cases of urgent necessity any Standing Order or Sessional Order of the Senate may be suspended on a motion to enable a senator to move a motion such as the one I propose to move. I move the motion because the matter is urgent, because it is important that the matter, which in fact involves ministerial responsibility to this House, should be dealt with and dealt with promptly. There is no reason at all for debate on the matter to be delayed. I move the motion now for those reasons and in view of the answers which have been given here in Question Time today. 
We believe that ministerial responsibility is important. The concept is that Parliament must be able to accept assurances given to it by a Minister. If those assurances prove to be misleading, the Minister concerned must be held responsible, even if- in fact, particularly if- she has acted on information given to her by senior members of her Department. That is the very corner-stone of our system of government and has been stated to be so by many members of the Government many times. In January 1978, Professor G. S. Reid, in a lecture he gave in Western Australia, I believe summed up very well the difficulties we face when he said: 
An appreciation of the relevance of and the difficulties encountered in the observance of the doctrine of Ministerial Responsibility, is crucial to the resolution of our problems in contemporary government. If governments hold to it (as the present Government does), but if the parliamentary means available to MPs for holding Ministers of State responsible are weak and neglected, then the so-called doctrine becomes a rhetorical device to enable Ministers to evade their responsibility to Parliament. 
We do not intend to allow that doctrine to become a rhetorical device to prevent Ministers from being responsible to this Parliament. Ministers in the present Government have agreed with that concept and have stated that concept very firmly both when in government and, particularly, when in opposition. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 9 July 1975: 
Ten per cent or even 50 per cent of the truth is as good a way of misleading this Parliament and the Australian people as a downright lie. The half truth, the partial answer, and the slipping over of the full facts are a misleading of this Parliament . . . 
It is a misleading of the Parliament just as much as, and maybe much more deliberately than, the statement of the former  Deputy  Prime Minister. In this place, none other than the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  weighed in on the doctrine of ministerial responsibility. On 15 October 1975 he said: 
A leader with any respect for his own image would declare immediately in this Parliament that he had misled the Parliament, although perhaps unintentionally. Surely those who have followed the disgrace and discharge of the various Ministers during these past months must endorse my comment that any leader with any respect for his own image would resign immediately. 
I suggest that we can replace the word 'leader' with 'Minister'. This year in this Parliament we have witnessed a complete erosion of fine sentiments such as that, which were trumpeted in 1975. The standards of ministerial responsibility and accountability to the Parliament have not been met by present Ministers, particularly in relation to the affair involving  Senator Webster  and the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  regarding oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef, particularly in regard to the affair of  Mr Sinclair  and the matter of the Narcotics Bureau and the manner in which it was administered by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Fife,  which matter was raised in the Parliament last week. Such is the extent of the downgrading of this principle by the present Government that, on 7 November last, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in his defence of  Mr Fife  during debate on a censure motion moved against  Mr Fife,  attacked the Australian Labor 
Party for purportedly basing its comments regarding the Minister on high-falutin explanations of ministerial responsibility. We do not believe that high-falutin explanations exist in this case, any more than they did in that case. We believe that the Government has brought the doctrine of ministerial responsibility into disrepute in the community. The editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of Friday, 9 November, stated: 
The truth of the matter is that the so-called doctrine of ministerial authority is, in the Australian Parliament of 1979, nothing more than a load of old cobblers. Lest that description be thought too harsh one should look at the remarks of the only member of Cabinet apart from Wal Fife, who bothered to enter the debate on Wednesday, Treasurer John Howard. He dismissed the Opposition remarks with the scornful idea that they were promulgating 'high-falutin' notions of ministerial responsibility'. 
There was a time when such 'high-falutin' ' notions were considered the backbone of parliamentary democracy. 
In its turn the executive is often and for the most pan little more than the client of the bureaucracy. The theoretical checks and balances of a system of workable government have been abandoned by generations of weak-willed parliamentarians who have handed over their public responsibilities to a strong executive and a permanent and largely selfserving bureaucracy. 
Parliamentary government has become an illusion perpetuated most assiduously by the very people who exercise the real power. They hide behind the supposed doctrine of ministerial responsibility. 
The executive has become so arrogant that it has, as evidenced by the remarks of John Howard, even abandoned the trouble of paying lip service to a central tenet of our system of government- the doctrine of ministerial responsibility. 
The Opposition has not abandoned that doctrine.  Mr Fraser  said in his address to the nation on 17 November 1975: 'Our policies will be directed to working with all of you to give Australia a responsible government, and one you can trust'. We want to know how we can trust a government whose Ministers are allowed to get away with making to this Parliament statements which have been shown to be wrong and misleading, as they have been in the last week and particularly in Question Time today. We do not believe that Ministers should be able to hide behind their senior bureaucrats by blaming them for the answers they give. We believe that when  Senator Guilfoyle  gives answers of the type that she has given she should check them and she should repeatedly check them when her answers are repeatedly questioned, as the answers she has given in this case have been checked by members of this side of the House. We therefore believe that she deserves censure. 
I am glad that my words have been so convincing. I am happy to proceed to a vote on the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
I move: 
That the Senate censures the Minister for Social Security for misleading the Senate in relation to telephone interceptions used by Commonwealth Police and the involvement of her Department with the Commonwealth Police in the alleged social security frauds case in Sydney. 
The matters with which we are concerned in this motion arose on 3 1 March of last year and, in particular, on 3 April of last year under circumstances which are well known to everyone here. At the time the Opposition was not in a position to judge the merits or otherwise of the case which is referred to, nor do we wish at this time to raise any matter of guilt or innocence concerning the people involved in the case. We wish to raise the matters which have come forward from the answers given by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to questions at various times in this place and the facts as they have come out now. The first matter is the matter of telephone tapping, the matter of the interception of telephone conversations and the gaining of evidence in that way.  Senator Guilfoyle,  answering a question I posed on 3 May 1 978, stated: 
My advice is that no telephone tapping was undertaken by the Commonwealth Police. 
Lest there be any argument as to what telephone tapping is or what telephone interception is- I understand that at times there has been some argument that the attachment of a listening device to a telephone without the authority of persons using that telephone or using a telephone connected to it is not, in fact, telephone tapping- I quote from  Australian Law Reports,  as mentioned by  Senator Evans  earlier today, the case of the Queen v. Padman. Judge Crawford said: 
I have evidence that at least one, perhaps two, I am not sure, but at least one member of the police force listened to the communication by means of a cassette recorder which was capable of amplification of the voice speaking from London. 
Later on he said: 
It is clear on the evidence before me that a police officer, or presumably officers, did, within the meaning of the Act, intercept a communication passed over the telephone system. 
The judge quite clearly considered that the attachment of a listening device to a telephone was, in fact, intercepting conversations on that telephone and was telephone tapping. I now quote from the transcript of evidence taken on 29 October in the court case which is presently proceeding in Sydney. I quote the evidence given under oath by Detective Inspector Thomas. I will quote him on three occasions. The first quotation is from page 7789 and states: 
Yes I attached a recording device to the telephone in my office. Constable Theodorakis then rang the number given to him by the man Hadjipanyiotis to him. 
On page 7799 on 29 October he was asked: 
On 9th February, 1978 did you again see Constable Theodorakis in your office? A. I did. I had a conversation with Constable Theodorakis. I then attached a recording device to a telephone in my office. Constable Theodorakis then dialled a number and spoke in a foreign language. On completion of his phone call I replayed the cassette recording that I had made of that conversation. 
At page 7803 on 29 October he was asked: 
On the twenty-seventh of February 1978 did you again see Constable Theodorakis? A. Yes, sir, in my office. Q: What happened? A: I had a conversation with him, I attached a recording device to my telephone. Constable Theodorakis dialled the number, had a conversation in a foreign language which I recorded. I replayed that recording, I recognise my voice and the voice of Constable Theodorakis. 
We have on three occasions the evidence, on oath, of a senior member of what was then the Commonwealth Police admitting that he had attached a listening device to a telephone to intercept a conversation between one of the people charged and a constable in his own police force. Quite clearly, there has been no denial of this in the court. There has been an acceptance of this in the court. Quite clearly it happened. We repeatedly asked whether this sort of thing was happening. Quite clearly, the Minister for Social Security answered on several occasions that there was no such telephone tapping. A senior member of the Commonwealth Police had given the Minister this information. The Government and the Minister must be responsible for the information that they have given to this Parliament. 
The second aspect of the case concerns the involvement of the Department, and particularly the Director-General of the Department of Social Security,  Mr Lanigan,  in the case itself. It became obvious, from the number of questions which we asked in this place and from the debate in this place, that  Mr Lanigan,  the DirectorGeneral of the Department of Social Security, had a considerable part to play in these raids and in the court case which followed. I repeatedly asked questions in this place and in debate about the involvement of the Department and the involvement of  Mr Lanigan.  I suggested, I must admit, that  Mr Lanigan  may not have been giving full advice to the Minister.  Senator Guilfoyle  was very sensitive on this issue. She said to me on 3 May 1978, after she had given me the advice of her Director-General: 
I am relating to the Senate the advice on this matter that I have received from my Director-General. If  Senator Grimes  wishes to say that I cannot rely on the advice of my DirectorGeneral let him make that statement more clearly than perhaps he is prepared to make it now. 
I am willing to make that statement more clearly now. I am willing to make the statement that quite clearly the Minister could not rely on the advice of her Director-General. The Minister is responsible for the advice of her DirectorGeneral in this place. She could have made further inquiries as to the reliability of the advice of her Director-General. She is responsible for it and she must accept what has happened under the doctrine of ministerial responsibility. I received a letter from the Minister on 5 December 1978 after I had requested advice on the involvement of the Minister's Department in the court case and the investigations which had preceded the court case. The Minister wrote to me in a similar vein as that used in answer to me in this place. She said: 
In the Senate on 23 November 1978, you asked whether any senior officer of the Department of Social Security accompanied the Commonwealth Police in operations in which some 175 persons were arrested and were subsequently charged with conspiracy to defraud the Commonwealth. 
Both the Director-General of my Department and the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police,  Mr Davis,  have advised me that no officer of the Department was involved in these activities. 
As you would know, the Commonwealth Police has an independent charter to investigate and take action in respect of frauds against the laws of the Commonwealth. This includes offences relating to the improper claiming of social security benefits. To enable this function to be carried out, the department has to make available to the police such information as may be necessary to enable them to carry out their duties. For this purpose some relatively junior officers of the New South Wales branch of my department acted as liaison officers but were not in any way involved in the activities on or about 3 April in the course of which arrests were made. 
Other junior officers acted as interpreters at times but the police have confirmed they did not accompany the police on any of the missions which led to the arrests being made. 
The implication quite clearly was that  Mr Lanigan  was not present; that he had very little to do with the case, with  the  manner in which the police investigated the case and with the manner in which the police conducted the case. As I quoted earlier today, the Minister said that her Department was merely the processing department, that it has no direct effect on the manner in which the cases were investigated and the way in which the raids were conducted. 
At a later time in this place it became obvious that  Mr Lanigan  was present at Commonwealth Police headquarters on the night of the raids, that he had flown from Perth to be present at the time. Yet he claimed that his presence there was merely as an observer and that he had no definite role to play in the case. We were told that he had no role to play before the case developed. On page 803 1 of the transcript of the trial which is taking place at present in Sydney,  Mr Laucis  Q.C. asked Detective Inspector Thomas, on oath, certain questions. I quote those questions: 
I will take you back to the original raids on 3 1 March and I think your evidence was instituted because of the attitude of the Social Services deparment. A: Department of Social Security set the time. 
That is, the time of the raid. It continues: 
Q: Social security, I am sorry, do I take it from that that had that not been the case you would not have acted at the time when you did act? A: No, I would have extended the inquiry. Q: Before acting? A: Yes. Q: And would it be true to say that there was a good deal of pressure on the Commonwealth Police at that stage to, not only actively do something, but also to produce results? A: I do not think there was any pressure to produce results. There was certainly pressure to complete the inquiry as much as we could by 3 1 March. Q: Not only, I put it to you, to complete that inquiry, but to do something about the allegations? A: I think that is inherent in us first starting the matter. Q: So that as far as you were concerned, being the officer in charge of the investigation you were concerned to be able to indicate that you, in fact, had results to produce? A: Yes. I always like to produce results. 
We have the inspector in charge of the case telling us that he was under pressure from the Department of Social Security to complete the case before 3 1 March; that he would have preferred to have extended the inquiry longer to get further facts and to get further information; and that he was under pressure from the Department of Social Security. Under pressure from whom? Was he under pressure from just a few junior officers of the Department of Social Security who were acting as liaison officers or acting as interpreters, or was he, in fact, under pressure from more senior officers of the Department, in particular the Director-General of Social Services, 

 Mr Pat Lanigan? But  Mr Lanigan  had already told this Parliament through the Minister: 
Chief Inspector Thomas has stated categorically that I had no discussion whatsoever about what the police were planning to do or what they should do. 
If it was not  Mr Lanigan  who was pressuring the Commonwealth Police and it was not the Minister who was pressuring the Commonwealth Police, who was it? In fact, it was obviously  Mr Lanigan  and other senior members of his Department who were pressuring the Commonwealth Police. We have already heard in answers from the Minister today that the Department was anxious that the Commonwealth Police should press on with the case and get the case over by 3 1 March. But  Mr Lanigan  has told us through the Minister and the Minister has told us in this place that he had no discussions whatever about what the police were planning to do or what they should do. We turn again to the evidence produced in the court. On page 8476, again under oath- and again this was directed to the Minister this afternoon at Question TimeDetective Chief Inspector Thomas was asked: 
Is it not a fact that you were informed that  Mr Lanigan  had agreed in principle that the concept of $23,000 would not be an unrealistic figure which may be determined when all the facts are taken into account at the end of the case? 
Yes, that is correct, yes, 
Obviously, the Director-General- the Minister has admitted it today- was in negotiations with the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police and indirectly with the detective chief inspector in charge of the case at the time about paying a considerable amount of money to a person, eventually charged, to turn State 's evidence. This was an incredible amount of money, up to $200,000. The fact that the Minister said today that when the money reached that level  Mr Lanigan  considered he could no longer negotiate is utterly irrelevant. We wonder at what level  Mr Lanigan  bailed out of the negotiations. Was it at $5,000, $50,000, or $100,000? The fact of the matter is that  Mr Lanigan  was negotiating with the Commonwealth Police, negotiating with Commissioner Davis, negotiating with Detective Chief Inspector Thomas, and despite the fact that he was taking a crucial part in obtaining evidence from one of the chief witnesses in the case, the Minister in this place told us that Chief Inspector Thomas has stated categorically: 
I had no discussion whatsoever about what the police were planning to do or what they should do. 
The Minister has changed her answer today. She has plainly and obviously at least been misled by her Director-General but that makes no difference. The Minister is responsible for her 
Director-General. She is responsible for the behaviour of her Department. The members of the present Government considered members of the Cabinet between 1972 and 1975 were responsible for everything that happened within their departments down to the very junior officers. In this case the Minister must accept responsibility for what her most senior officer has done. 
We have continually asked questions about the involvement of the Department of Social Security with the Commonwealth Police. We have, I suggest, continuously been given misleading answers and, in some cases, quite wrong answers. We have been berated by the Minister for suggesting that any improper connection between her Director-General and the Commonwealth Police could have occurred. On 24 November 1 978  Senator Guilfoyle  said in this place: 
I find it difficult to understand some of the assertions about my Department being involved in this matter. My Department is the processing department. The Commonwealth Police on behalf of the Commonwealth Government have laid charges. 
In her letter to me she wrote, and I repeat the quote: 
Both the Director-General of my Department and the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police . . . have advised me that no officer was involved in these activities. 
On 21 January the Minister again wrote to me saying: 
Neither I nor my department have any administrative responsibilities over the work of the police and it follows that your representations, insofar as they relate to this area, will need to be directed to the Minister for Administrative Services . . . 
In fact, we have evidence- evidence not deniedagreed by the Minister in Question Time today that her Department was pressuring the Commonwealth Police, that her Department in fact decided when the Commonwealth Police would conduct their raids. They decided that because they threatened the Commonwealth Police that they would have to take independent action if the Commonwealth Police did not take any action.  Mr Lanigan  said and  Senator Guilfoyle  stated on 21 March 1979 that Chief Inspector Thomas had stated categorically that he had had no discussions whatsoever about what the police were planning to do. He went further and said that Detective Inspector Thomas would have rejected any attempt ' I might have made to interfere in any way to advise, direct or influence the police as to the way in which they would carry out their operations. Nothing of that kind ever took place or could have taken place '. 
Yet we have had an admission in this place that  Mr Lanigan  and the Department pressured the Commonwealth Police and  Mr Lanigan  was involved in negotiations on how much a person who turned State evidence would be paid to give that evidence to obtain convictions in this case. According to the  National Times  of 3 February 1979  Mr Lanigan  took up this issue because of the persistent rumours of the connection between the senior officers of the Department and the Commonwealth Police. That newspaper reported: 

 Mr Lanigan informed this newspaper that it would give a false impression to suggest that the Department of Social Security was closely involved with the police investigation. This is not, in fact, the case as we have an independent operation conducted by the Commonwealth Police under their chaner from the Commonwealth Government. They act independently and we do not have access to their files or proceedings. 
Again this came from the man who was closely involved in discussions as to how much would be paid to a witness who was present on the night of the raids and who had taken a close interest in it through the Commissioner of Police and through Detective Chief Inspector Thomas. We have been repeatedly told in this place that  Mr Lanigan  and the Department were standing aside; that it was merely the processing Department and it was having nothing to do with this operation. Quite clearly, on the occasions that we have asked in this place about the use of telephone tapping and the use of telephonic interception, we were told it was not occurring. It is quite clear that it was occurring. There is no refuting of the evidence at all and no attempt was made in Question Time today to refute that evidence. Quite clearly this Parliament was seriously misled. We were told repeatedly that the Department and the Director-General of the Department had no direct obligations, no direct part in the preparation of the case, in the organisation of the case or in the timing of the case against these people. Quite clearly that was wrong. Quite clearly on Detective Chief Inspector Thomas's evidence under oath he was under pressure from the Department to produce results. He was under pressure from the Department to conduct his raids. He was under pressure from the Department to get the thing over by 31 March. The Director-General was also involved in negotiations as to how much money should be paid to a witness and this extraordinary sum of $200,000 became involved. 
Under these circumstances we can come to the conclusion only that the Minister misled this Parliament. We can come to the conclusion only that the Minister perhaps was initially misled by her Director-General and by the Commissioner for the Commonwealth Police. But that does not excuse the Minister for not determining the truth of the matter. It is the responsibility of the Minister in the face of repeated inquiries from this side of the House and from organisations like the Redfern Legal Aid Office, from people in the Greek community and from representatives of the media in this country who repeatedly questioned her over a period of 1 8 months about the Department's involvement. It was her responsibility to conduct proper investigations of her Department and of her Director-General and to see where the truth really lay. 
The truth is now coming out. The Minister has not fulfilled that obligation. It was her responsibility to do so. It was her responsibility to keep this Parliament informed of the truth and accuracy of the matter. She has not done so. That she may have been misled is no excuse. Honourable senators opposite were happy to quote and proclaim the doctrine of ministerial responsibility often between 1972 and 1975 and they have done so frequently since then. This is a government of which the Prime Minister claims and demands the highest standards. The standard is such that a Minister in this place was removed from office for what many people would have considered to be a fairly trivial offence. For the offence of misleading this Parliament, we believe that the Minister for Social Security deserves to be censured. We believe that she owes the Senate a considerable explanation of what has happened and why she has been put in the situation she is in. We believe that she should consider carefully her position in this matter. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen the evidence given on Monday by Detective Chief Inspector Thomas that he, between August and December 1977, had several meetings with representatives of her Department, namely, Messrs Lanigan, Corrigan and Prowse, concerning, amongst other things, the payment of moneys to  Mr Nakis  to give State evidence? Was the Minister informed of any such meetings taking place? If she was, how does this tie in with her answer to me in January this year that only junior officers of her Department were engaged in liaison work with the Commonwealth Police? If she was not notified, should she have been notified? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) What has been the cost to 29 August 1979, of providing transcripts of the current court case concerning the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
Who are entitled to receive these transcripts: (a) free; (b) at cost; and (c) under what other conditions. 
Who are not entitled to receive these transcripts. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that on 15 September 1977 a meeting was held in the office of her DirectorGeneral in Juliana House, Phillip, attended by  Mr Lanigan; Mr Corrigan,  First Assistant Director-General of the Department;  Mr Prowse,  First Assistant Director-General;  Mr Lang,  First Assistant Director-General of the Department of Health;  Mr Davies,  Assistant Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police; and  Mr Thomas.  Detective Chief Inspector in the Commonwealth Police? Is she aware that at this meeting it was decided that a short note in the form of a 'ministerial' be directed to  Mr Lanigan  from the Commonwealth Police for presentation to the Minister, setting out a system of assessment for recommendations on whether any reward should be paid for evidence in the alleged social security frauds case? If she is not aware of this meeting, and if she is not aware of this decision, will she please make inquiries to find out why she is not aware and was not made aware of the meeting at the time? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) How many persons charged in connection with the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales have had those charges dropped. 
On what dates were the charges dropped. 
In how many cases does the Commonwealth intend to proceed with the charges. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
How many persons (a) before the Court; and (b) charged, in connection with the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales are eligible for Legal Aid. 
In respect of how many of those charged, in each category above, has legal aid been paid. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) How many lawyers: (a) for the prosecution and (b) for the defence, are being paid directly by the AttorneyGeneral's Department, in respect of the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
How much has been paid in each category above, to 29 August 1979. 
asked the Attorney-General,  upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
What are: 
the total costs, to 29 August 1 979; and 
the daily costs, to the Commonwealth of the cases presently before the Court, concerning the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
) What is the daily fee of  Mr D.  Rofe, Q.C. 
For how many days for which this fee is payable has  Mr Rofe  appeared in Court. 
How much has  Mr Rofe  been paid so far. 
What has been the cost of other legal counsel retained by the Commonwealth so far. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) How many lawyers are being paid by legal aid from (a) the Commonwealth; and (b) New South Wales, in respect of the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
What has been the total amount of these payments in each category, to 29 August 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government received a submission from the Western Australian Government seeking between $40m and $S0m for water reticulation in the north eastern agricultural areas of the State. 
Does any such submission include a cost benefit analysis of the proposal; if not, is an analysis to be undertaken by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that in mid-November 1977,  Mr Corrigan,  from her Department, was negotiating with  Mr Wunderlich,  the solicitor for  Mr Nakis,  for the payment of a reward for the giving of evidence in the alleged social security frauds case in Sydney? If so, was  Mr Corrigan  doing this with the knowledge and approval of  Mr Lanigan,  the DirectorGeneral? If it is a fact, how does this tie in with the statement the Minister gave on behalf of  Mr Lanigan  to the Senate last week? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister yet received the report of the survey carried out by R.  J.  Donovan and Associates into the characteristics of special beneficiaries. 
Did this survey investigate general knowledge about the availability of special benefit to people in need and without other income. 
If the report has been received, why has it not been publicly released. 
Is the Minister for Social Security in a position to answer questions raised by me this week and last week concerning a ministerial' to be directed to  Mr Lanigan,  her Director-General, from the Commonwealth Police for presentation to her, setting out a system of assessment for any recommendations for rewards in the case referred to, and the role of  Mr Corrigan  in negotiating with a solicitor to pay a reward to a person to give evidence? Was the ministerial' drafted by her Director-General? Did she receive it and act on it? What was the position of  Mr Corrigan?  Did he have the approval of the Director-General? 
Initially I wish to speak briefly on the estimates for the Depanment of Social Security in general. One of the difficulties which was alluded to earlier in the night by other honourable senators speaking to other estimates was the very real problem that exists in this country with our social security system. It leaves so many gaps and so many people untouched and therefore so many people in poverty. One group which was mentioned earlier tonight comprises those families in the community who, because they rely on social security benefits or are in the low income bracket, remain well below the poverty line. This fact was I believe demonstrated satisfactorily by a table that was incorporated in  Hansard in  the debate on the Social Services Amendment Bill. 
I do not think that I need to go into detail. The simple facts of the matter are that in this country large families relying on unemployment or other social security benefits or receiving low incomes remain below the poverty level. They remain in difficulty without much hope of assistance. The only means we have in this country of redistributing income to those families under the current legislation is through the family allowance scheme. This scheme was introduced in 1976 to replace the previous tax rebates for families and the previous child endowment scheme which had become so eroded by inflation as to be almost meaningless. 
An alternative method of assisting these families could be through the taxation system, but we have a taxation system which is so complex and so difficult to amend that in the short term I believe that reform in this area to achieve significant benefits for poor people, particularly low income families, would be impossible. 
-I am aware of that but I believe it is the practical situation. I assume that  Senator Baume  's interjection refers to the proposal for income splitting. I must say that I share the implied views of  Senator Hamer  in his question the other day. Any proposal for income splitting- this is obvious to anyone who looks at it- will benefit most those on high incomes and least those single parent families who have no one to split their income with. It will benefit the low income families very little because their income is so low that they are paying very little tax now and will pay very little less tax with such an income splitting proposal. 
It is not the sort of proposal that I believe is practical, just or fair in our community. We have the family allowance scheme which I believe we can reform quickly and reasonably to redirect funds to low income families. I have spoken on this matter in the past and have been criticised by various people on the Government side for speaking in this way, mainly I believe, because they have deliberately misinterpreted what I have said. In 1976 family allowances were introduced. The allowances have remained at the same rate despite an inflation rate of some 36 per cent since then. Their value has been considerably eroded. But even if they had been indexed under the present system across the board through all income levels, the increase in family allowances to the high income families would be meaningless because of their incomes and the increase in income to the low income families would have been inadequate to raise their income sufficiently to get them anywhere near the poverty line. This remains a fact. 
I am not one of those people who believe that poverty can be measured just by income. I believe access to health and to other services must be considered. We can use this measure fairly accurately to measure how we can get people up to a reasonable level so that they are no longer in poverty. If we are to use the family allowances scheme we must look, I believe, at methods of redirecting some of the increased payments under that scheme to the low income families. This does not mean taking away money from people who at present receive family allowances. This does not mean introducing administrative procedures. It means deciding that the amount of money in this country which is spent on family allowances can be increased. I believe it can be increased beyond the level of indexation, beyond the $300m which would have been the cost if allowances had been indexed since they were introduced in 1 976. 
I believe that the bulk of that money should be directed to low income families whether or not they are on benefits. I believe that this money should be directed as much as possible to those people as has been done in Canada and other countries through a family income supplement or whatever it is called. We have to take a serious look at the system we have. We have a complex social security system and a complex income support system. If we are serious about redirecting income in this community to those in need we must look seriously at using the present amount of money we pay on family allowances. We cannot do it by simple across the board indexation to all families with children in the community whether or not they are in need. We must develop some means of assessing those in need and getting income to them whether or not they come under the present ambit of the social security system. 
The low income family of a person working for a wage in the community is completely left out of our present system. They do not come into our social security or income support system in any way except through the family allowances scheme. This scheme is well accepted and efficient, and the take-up rate is probably higher than most social security payment systems we have. It can easily be adapted to pay a higher family income supplement to those who are in real need. I must seriously question, as I have in the past, whether across the board indexation or increases as advocated by so many is a just way of using public funds. We must look seriously at reforming the system we have which works well. I ask the Minister for Social Secutiry  (Senator Guilfoyle)  whether the Government is in fact considering this matter. 
The Minister introduced the family allowance scheme in 1 976 with a great fanfare. It was continually praised as being the greatest advance in social security in this country for many years. The Opposition agreed that the scheme certainly was a great improvement on the old tax rebate and child endowment scheme and a considerable improvement on the old tax deduction scheme for children which the Labor Party changed to a tax rebate scheme with considerable opposition from some members of the present Government. I ask the Minister how she can justify introducing a scheme like that in 1976 with such a fanfare and with such claims of assistance to low income families in the community and then leave payments at the same level they had been at since 1 976 and allow them to be eroded by 36 per cent or 40 per cent inflation without any justification. 
I have sympathy for those who say that the simplest and easiest thing to do would be to introduce indexation. My concern about automatic indexation in this area is that it will not necessarily assist those who need most assistance. If a family income support scheme cannot be introduced which directs funds to low income families, certainly we should at least introduce indexation. If we were willing to spend $ 1 billion on family allowances in 1976 we should be willing to spend at least $ 1 ,300m on family allowances in 1979 with the level of indexation we have had since then. I would be interested to hear the Minister's comments on this matter. 
I will briefly comment on the reply made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  particularly in regard to the family allowance. It seems to me that unless a serious look is taken at the manner in which we are supporting low income families in the community generally and avoid the sort of bland reply that we got from the Minister we will get nowhere. 
In 1976, the family allowance scheme was introduced and we were willing to spend some $ 1,000m on it. It was introduced to replace a system of tax rebates for children which, under any system of tax indexation- be it full indexation or part indexation- would have meant that those rebates also would have been indexed. At the time we of the Opposition suspected what has happened would happen. We aired our concern that the introduction of family allowance may well have provided for the Government a let-out to avoid the revenue problems which may have arisen by the indexation of the children's rebate when the Government had a policy of full tax indexation. What has happened is what we predicted would happen, that is the family allowance has remained the same and its value has been eroded by 35 per cent or 36 per cent because of inflation since then. The people on low incomes, the people on benefits and the people on pensions who have children have been asked to carry far too much of the burden of inflation and the burden of the Government's economic policy. Something will have to be done as the income support system has been greatly eroded. 
Suggestions are coming from all directions. There has been the suggestion of income splitting, I understand, by a Government back bench committee. This would cost, depending on how one did the exercise, some $ 1 ,000m or $ 1 ,700m a year which would be a loss to the revenue or would have to be passed on to another group of taxpayers. There is a suggestion to increase greatly the spouse's allowance under the taxation system. That does not recognise the fact that it is parenthood more than marriage that causes economic difficulties. We have always paid the spouse's allowance in recognition that sometimes marriage creates economic difficulties, but in fact it is parenthood rather than marriage that causes the problems. 
What I am suggesting is that we take a serious look at the family allowance scheme- a well understood scheme, an efficient scheme, a scheme which above all in almost all cases in the community pays money to mothers- so that we can redistribute some of the funds to those who need the assistance. I know that redistribution of income is a dirty word to some people on the other side of the chamber but the only system that we have in existence at the moment which is administratively effective and administratively simple to redistribute money- and God knows everybody accepts that we need to redistribute money to some of these people- is in fact the family allowance scheme. If we cannot graft onto the family allowances schemes a family income supplement by using this efficient, accessible system, we should at least index the allowance, as ineffective as that would be. We should index the allowances at least to recognise that the value of the allowance is being eroded by inflation. 
I urge the Government to look at the problem seriously because low income families, particularly those with a working parent, are in fact becoming those who are left out of our social security and our general system of income support in this country. I merely ask the Government seriously to consider doing something about this group in the community and looking seriously at all the suggestions that are made, even though I have expressed by disagreement with proposals such as income splitting. I ask the Government to look at the system we have and ascertain whether we can rapidly introduce a means of supporting this group in the community. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I seek leave to move the Opposition's 31 amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1 ) Page I, clause 3, definition of "appoint", line 9 at end of definition, add " unless otherwise stated ". 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he accepts that, as the first law officer of the Crown, the ultimate decision to prosecute in the present social security frauds case in Sydney was his. When did the Attorney first become aware of the investigations taking place in this case and at what point was he first consulted in relation to the prosecution? Did he personally authorise the prosecution' to proceed in the case? When did he give that authority and, if he did not, in what way was he consulted before the prosecution proceeded? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statements. 1 wish to confine my remarks to the second, and shorter, of the two statements made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Of course the first statement is important but it is so large that we have not had time to peruse it. It refers to the large and very comprehensive Williams report. We have been awaiting the second statement for quite some time. There have been many leaks about what may and may not have been in it. There have been references by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, the Honourable Ian Viner, in speeches around the country and references by  Senator Carrick  in this place and outside as to the Government's new developments in the field of transitional educationeducation to enable people to go from school to work. It was suspected that some of the reports in the newspapers were kite flying exercises, some were confusing and some were obviously the guesswork of the reporters concerned. We have been waiting for this statement for some time. In fact, what we have is an eight page statement entitled, 'A Comprehensive Policy for Transition from School to Work '. This it is not. I will begin my comments where  Senator Carrick  left off. He ended his statement with the following words:  the opportunity is now being given . . . will ensure that the teenage years are productive, constructive and satisfying and that unemployment is not an option that  they would seek rather than participate in the  opportunities  opened up by a comprehensive transition policy. 
Throughout the statement there are references to the fact that the Government does not consider that unemployment should be a satisfactory alternative to the youth of this country who leave school. Of course, the youth of this country do not see unemployment as a satisfactory alternative, and Australia will retain its high unemployment and persist with a high youth unemployment rate. As long as we have a ratio of job vacancies to those who are seeking work of something like I to 20 it is absolute nonsense to think that by introducing a program of this type, or any other type, without increasing the number of jobs available in the community we will in fact do anything about youth unemployment. It is a serious problem. Everybody knows it is a serious problem. 
Of those on unemployment benefits in June this year, 10.5 per cent were school leavers who had not had any work at all. I am talking about those on unemployment benefits, not those registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service or in the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Of those people, 27.2 per cent- 48,000- were under 18 years of age and 56.7 per cent- 177,000- were under 25 years of age. The unemployment rate for those under the age of 20 years is 1 5.6 per cent. Some communities have a rate much worse than that. In some of the ethnic communities- for example, the Lebanese and Turkish communities in Victoria- 40 per cent of the unemployed school leavers were out of work in June; almost one in four of those unemployed for more than three months have not applied for or claimed benefits in this country. The average duration of unemployment in Australia is now 27 weeks, whereas four or five years ago it was six or seven weeks. We are viewing a serious problem and I think it is quite dishonest for the Government to bring down an eight page statement entitled 'A Comprehensive Policy for Transition from School to Work ' when it is nothing of the sort. 
One can sum up this statement in a very short time by saying that the Government will spend, on an average, $30m per annum if the States will also kick in to increase the amount of money spent on programs assisting in transitional education between school and work. The first section describes a moderate expansion of already existing programs, such as the Education Program for Unemployed Youth, developments for improved services and techniques for identifying early school leavers, the school councillor system, alternative courses in schools and establishment of after-school courses, et cetera. The statement then goes on to acknowledge that most of these measures are already being used, and it is expected that they will assist some 7,000 people. The second section has no specific details at all. It starts on page 4 after the statement that unemployment becomes the least acceptable alternative. Throughout the section, on pages 4 and 5, we find over and over again the words 'might' and 'may'. We find statements such as 'other developments might include an extension of work experience', and 'teacher development programs may be needed'. The words 'might' and 'may' appear all through it. It is not a comprehensive policy; it is not a specific policy. It is a list of suggestions, of things that we might do or may do. To call this a comprehensive policy for transitional education is utter nonsense. 
The third section occurs on page 7. It can be described only as an exhortation to teachers, students, parents and employees to get together and do something. That is not a comprehensive policy or part of a comprehensive policy. It is the sort of sermon on the mount nonsense that we get from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who, over the years, has urged people to buy more refrigerators and more cars- to buy our way out of trouble. People in this country do not fall for that nonsense any longer and they certainly will not fall for a document which claims to be a comprehensive policy but which contains hardly any specific suggestions and only a series of suggestions of what we might or may do. If it were an ordinary policy discussion paper looking to a few things that we might be able to do in that distant future it would be fair enough; but to describe it as a comprehensive policy is utter nonsense. The problem is too urgent for us to be sitting in here reading pious mouthings of this sort. We have to do something about unemployment. Even  Senator Archer,  a great critic of the unemployed - 
Admits that we must - 
A well-known dole bludger kicker around the place is  Senator Archer;  he is well known on the north east coast of Tasmania 
-I think that  Senator Archer  should learn that if he interjects he has to cop something back. As  President  Truman said: If you don't like the heat you know where you can go '. 
-The Bill provides legislative authority for the establishment of the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. I move the following amendment to the motion: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to- 
establish the Institute as an independent statutory authority responsible to the Parliament; 
provide the Institute with a more positive responsibility for the maintenance of cultural identities and traditions and encouragement of multiculturalism 
elaborate the functions of the Institute to include research into the history and phenomenon of immigration to Australia and issues related to the development of ethnic groups in Australia and their diverse cultures; 
ensure the possibility of entering into contractual relationships with other community-based organisations engaged in activities in accord with the objectives of the Institute; 
enable the Institute of Multicultural Affairs to conduct research into and foster community sensitivity for racial groups not the subject of study by the Institute of Aboriginal Studies while including the latter in the ambit of multicultural affairs; and 
define members of the Institute, their method of election, and their duties and powers as members of the Institute'. 
As the Opposition's spokesman on immigration,  Dr Cass,  stated last week during the debate on this Bill in another place the Opposition does not oppose the establishment of the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. However, the Opposition is disturbed by the restrictions under which the Institute will be placed and its status, not only as a government-sponsored body but also as a government-controlled establishment. One would find it difficult to oppose the establishment of such an institute, whose aim is to increase our awareness of the sort of society in which we live and the opportunities for new settlers to become pan of the multicultural society that we have become. The Opposition is concerned that such an institute should not be just a matter of tokenism to the ethnic community; if it is to be established it should be effective. We believe that the principles outlined in the amendment moved at the second reading stage and the amendments which we will move at the Committee stage will, in fact, do this. 
The Institute is to be governed by a council consisting of the Government appointed Director of the Institute, the Secretary of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, a Government appointed chairman and three to six other members. As there is no provision for migrant or community bodies to elect the additional members, one supposes that they too will be Government appointed. Up to 100 persons will be appointed as members of the Institute by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, so I suppose it is not to be expected that that group will cause the Government any trouble. Perhaps that is the reason why this means of setting up the Institute has been chosen. In any case, these members will be called together as the Council, not as the members of the Institute, determines, which is a further restriction. 
Our amendments are designed to strengthen the independence of the Institute and give it more direction and substance than we believe the legislation before us does. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  said that one of the early objectives of the Institute would be to define multiculturalism and then to follow that through with various worthy aims, which would include the development of awareness among cultural and ethnic groups, the promotion of tolerance, understanding and mutual esteem, the promotion of cohesiveness through existing political and legal structures, and the promotion of an environment conducive to participation. But because of the way in which the Government has set up the Institute, it is difficult to see the Government allowing it to do these things in its own way, something we believe is important. Our view is that unless there is a reconstruction of the structure and procedures of the Institute, it will be no more than a research arm of the Government. Clause 18 (3) of the Bill states: 
In preparing any report to be furnished under section 17, the Council shall have regard to such policies of the Commonwealth Government as are communicated to the Council by the Minister in writing. 
It is not even clear whether these reports will be tabled in the Parliament or whether they are to be produced only for the Government, making it far less like an institute and far more like a private advisory body to the Government- a body like the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat which reports to the Government. The final aim of the 
Institute as set out in clause 5(d) is the promotion of an environment conducive to participation. It would seem to me that that is negated already by the structure of the Institute. There is very little evidence that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs would do more than pay lip service to that aim. From our experience of that Department, it would be hard to imagine it allowing an environment conducive to too much participation. 
We have just witnessed the case of the small welfare rights program which was transferred to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs from the Department of Social Security, where it was very effective. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs annihilated this program without consultation with the ethnic groups. It was a program which had a good record of participation and a good record of care in relation to its client groups. Once the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs got hold of this welfare rights program, it quickly cut it off in its prime. If the Institute's researchers pointed to the need to fight for the rights of disadvantaged migrant groups against the private and public bureaucracy and wanted the Government to fund such a program. It might well hesitate in view of the swift dismantling of that particular program after its transfer. 
The amount of money to be spent on the Institute is some $1.8m over 3 years, which is about $600,000 a year. That must be seen as pretty small by comparison with its ambitious programs of commissioning and conducting research, informing the public, promotions, community education, and that quaint aim of establishing a literature repository, which us mere mortals could assume is a library. The only really worthwhile part of that program, I believe, is the commissioning of research and the provision of community education. Conducting research is, by its charter, pretty much what the Government wants done. It is not being done satisfactorily at the moment, it is clear, by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The legislation provides for reporting to the Minister. It may be a necessary task to write that into the legislation, but it is a procedure which would otherwise be taken for granted. Similarly, the establishment of a literature repository should not need to be stated in the legislation. It is difficult to imagine any institute which does not have such a repository, or library, and a custodian of that library. I find it difficult to see that this not actually padding out legislation. 
What also makes one suspicious in view of recent history are the aims of informing the public and promotions. In recent times there has been a good deal of waste where promotions are seen as an end in themselves, particularly when conducted by government. We have seen money which could be better spent going straight to public relations firms and straight to the creative advertising businesses, which may have been fine for them. One can suggest that Project Australia and many promotions in the International Year of the Child, such as the ill-fated Job Show, are examples of promotions where Commonwealth money, provided in some cases for a good cause, has gone to advertising firms and not necessarily where it would do the most good. One would be fearful that an institute set up with such rigid government control and lack of independence might fall into the same trap. 
It seems to me that the major constructive work of the Institute of Multicultural Affairs is likely to be in the field of commissioned research, particularly if that research is acted upon, and also in the field of community education. That, I think, is a very important aspect. One has only to deal with any affair involving difficult situations for migrants in this country to find this strange current of xenophobia which exists under the surface. Those of us who have been involved in cases like the current affair in Sydney or involved in making comments on the refugee situation soon find that we receive- I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  also receives- rather unkind letters from these strange people in this country who do not wish us to be a multicultural society, who do not wish us to have migrants at all. 
There is a strong case, I believe, for multiculturalism at work to receive far more study and research than it has in the past, and a strong case for that study to be contracted out of people who are experts in the field. I quote from the Jackson report on the Development of Manufacturing Industry in support of that statement: 
The work force is multi-racial and multi-cultural. Four out of ten were born outside Australia. They frequently do the dirtiest, least skilled, menial tasks; tasks for which, despite unemployment, young native born Australians cannot be found. Women are a quarter of the workforce and in some sectors eight out often. Little attention is paid to their special needs, particularly of the two-thirds who are married. The married migrant woman in industry is trebly disadvantaged. 
I know that many honourable senators who have read the survey carried out by the Centre for Urban Research and Action, that excellent document entitled 'But I Wouldn't Want My Wife to Work Here', will have no problem in accepting that that sort of disadvantage exists, particularly for migrant women in the community. The Jackson report continues: 
People remote from the shop floor who staff governments, traditional firms and the unions do not appear to be conscious enough of these long term problems, or well enough prepared to deal with them. 
For that sort of reason, I believe that on-going research should be commissioned or contracted out of some of the most reputable organisations in the field, with either a migrant base or strong migrant participation. It is important that this on-going basis should be established to enable some expertise and continuity to be built up. The Institute of Multicultural Affairs, as do all the projects put up under the Galbally report, is to have a three-year lifetime. It is to have funding for three years and there are no promises. Multiculturalism in the work force, simply because so many of our post-war and recent migrants are propelled into the work force and it is a major focus of their lives, will remain an important issue because it affects so much of a migrant's place in society.  Mr Frank  Stevens, in his paper Migrants and the Trade Union Movement', says: 
If you study the figures you will find that not only do the ethnic community in Australia bear the brunt of over 40 per cent of all industrial accidents (although they make up some 28 per cent of the population) they bear more than double their share of unemployment, fail to take advantage of the advanced education system, earn at rates of pay well below the Australian average, live at conditions which are substandard, bear children at a greater rate than native-born Australians, have a higher level of ill-health, possess fewer skills, and fill the ranks of menial workers when they are able to obtain employment. 
He went on to say: 
It is one thing to identify a problem; it is another to provide a solution. As Oscar Lewis pointed out in his study 'The Culture of Poverty', the interlocking social systems of poverty, poor education and lack of economic opportunity are selfsustaining, particularly if the group concerned is both of significant size and identifiable within the broader framework of the social system. 
This problem of cultural differences in the work force and the different treatment of cultural groups must be grasped at by our community. One hopes that this Institute can get to that problem, get us some decent research and get us towards decent solutions to the problem. George Said, who has written on multi-culturalism in the work force, has already suggested a different definition of multi-culturalism. It is something that the Institute is being directed to put some thought into. He said: 'Multiculturalism exists where one society embraces groups of people with different cultural identities'. He has already made some suggestions for the Institute. He has suggested that educational institutions should provide courses for supervisors and managers to learn how to perform within a multicultural organisation because all our work places are multicultural now, and a learning exchange with sufficient resources to pool the knowledge that exists now and to provide training for others who need it to do field work. In this area, as in so many other areas, there is a pool of knowledge, but it is a pool which is not being properly processed or brought together. We need to do this. One hopes that the Institute will be able to do this. 
Some of this community's major industrial plants operate with something like 80 per cent of wage earners who were born in non-English speaking countries. Of the total tradesmen, male process workers and labourers in this country 52.8 per cent were born overseas. Of the male migrants, 62 per cent of the Greek migrants, 59 per cent of the Italian migrants and 40 per cent of the Yuoslav migrants have had five years or less schooling. Of the female migrants, 72 per cent of the Greek migrants, 65 per cent of the Italian migrants and 50 per cent of the Yugoslav migrants have had five years or less schooling. These people are not unintelligent. They simply lacked the opportunity of education in their country of origin and lacked the opportunity to learn English adequately- the opportunity to be motivated, involved and participate in their own safety. I impress that upon the Senate. 
I mentioned earlier in my quotes that there is a lack of participation in all areas of our society. It varies from union to union. In some unions one sees a high participation rate. I am sure  Senator Lajovic  has read the publication 'But I Wouldn't Want My Wife to Work Here ', to which I have referred. It was produced by trade union people. It is a quite scathing indictment of the attitude of some trade unions to migrant women, particularly those who are process workers in Melbourne. The trade union movement has accepted this. I was at the launching of that publication. Some of the severest critics of the lack of participation by migrant women workers in the trade union movement, the most trenchant critics there, were in fact active trade unionists. 
Sure. When  Senator Lajovic  interjected, I was referring to the fact- it is a fact and we can do something about it but we cannot do anything about the fact that it existsthat amongst some migrant groups, because of conditions in their country of origin and because of lack of opportunity, they have not had much education in their native language and therefore are in considerable difficulty in this country. We hope that this Institute will look at some decent solutions to that very real problem. It is a legitimate and necessary role of government in this country or anywhere else to do what we can to improve the life style and the access to the decision-making processes of this country of people whom we invite here and who contribute so much to this country. Another body that has looked at the problems that we face is, of course, the New South Wales Ethnic Affairs Commission. It claims that multiculturalism is either a mosaic and it is the job of education to recognise and delineate the parts of that mosaic or else should be seen as a goal and in that case the education system should have a mobilising role in promoting the concept of multiculturalism. 
One knows that there is considerable debate amongst the ethnic community about which of those things it should do or whether it should do both. There are differences between different ethnic communities. The differences are important and ones which add to our life style. It is part of the practical research purpose in promoting community education, which must include migrant education and should include research on second language acquisition. All these things should be looked at by this Insitute. There should be research on the backlog in education, that is, those migrants who have not learnt English despite many years of residence in Australia. A lot of work has been done in recent years on how to overcome that problem. One has acquaintenances who are working in the active in-home language teaching programs and who are trying to get over this problem. If we can get together the knowledge and experiences of people in these areas that we have now and co-ordinate the research in the Institute of Multicultural Affairs we will achieve something. 
We need statistics- we are very short of them in the welfare' field particularly- on migrants who have never done an English course, on those who have had only minimal tuition, and on the personal work and psychological problems that result from this. We still need major research into the areas of migrant disadvantage in regard to health, the law, industrial safety, workers compensation and the cost effectiveness of providing one-year's full time tuition, say, in English to all English-speaking migrants on arrival and providing them with an acceptable living allowance, as was suggested by the Adult Migrant Education Service in New South Wales. This may be very expensive and may not be very effective, but it is worth looking at. Much of this research, however, would be best done outside a centralised government controlled institute by people in organisations who have first hand knowledge of the area, while the Institute contracts the research and co-ordinate and makes effective use of the findings of that research. 
Finally, I mention two of the more serious problems which will be deserving of the Institute's research and action, particularly community education. The first is the continuing sorry situation of our Aboriginal people who were, after all, the first Australian migrants. The second is the personal plight and the community reaction to the last of our Australian migrants, the Indo-Chinese refugees and in particular the boat people. In the first place, some research, mainly of an historical kind, is produced at the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, and some policy research is done in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. An Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs should be more concerned with research that recognises those disadvantages which are shared jointly by Aboriginals and post-war nonEnglish speaking migrants. It should be there to ensure that any research does not fall into the trap of trading one ethnic group or racial group off against another. There is more than enough Anglo-Saxon prejudice without allowing us to involve resentment between peoples of different colours or different races and from different continents in such an institute. 
The very real problems that have arisen in this country, the resentment, the unfortunate effortscertainly by a minority of people- as a reaction to the arrival of the Indo-Chinese refugees and the boat people is something which I believe community education can assist to overcome. One hopes that the Institute of Multicultural Affairs will branch out into a much wider area to overcome this problem. I believe that understanding and compassion should be built into every exercise which is commissioned by this Institute. Our amendments are designed to strengthen the Institute, to provide a wider governing body and a wider participation by Aboriginal and ethnic groups which we believe will help overcome their social isolation, affirming their own cultural beliefs and values and working towards our society, embracing all groups, whatever their cultural identity and whatever their background. 
I think it is important if we are going to establish an institute like this that we give it independence and strength and that we divorce it as much as possible from departmental control or departmental direction. If we do not, we are establishing an organisation which is mere tokenism, which will be seen as such by the ethnic groups and which will therefore inevitably fail. 
I rise on the motion for the first reading of the Wheat Marketing Bill and the associated Bills to talk about a subject entirely different from that raised by  Senator Thomas.  In September of this year the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  received a document from Greece which was posted by an organisation called the Association of Greek-Australian Pensioners in Greece of Emm. Benaki Street, No. 3, Athens. It was accompanied by a letter of authentication by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Greece and notaries' signatures claiming that it wi,s an accurate document and an accurate translation. We have since had inquiries made as to the accuracy of the organisation and the document and we have found that it to be a true document. A copy has in fact been sent to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I thought I would bring it to the attention of the House. The document is called an 'Accusation' which is the customary method of doing this in Greece. In not very good English it states: 
The Administrative Council of the Greek-Australian Pensioners in Greece, having had an extraordinary meeting on the 10th of August 1979, because of the unjustifiable indifference of the Australian Ministry of Social Insurances, for non-paying the pensions to the disabled pensioners of our country, is accusing the Minister of Social Insurances of Australia and is submitting herewith below the following questions: 
. Why and for what reason, your Excellency, your subordinates do not answer to the disabled pensioners upon the submitted appeals deposited by them to the Australian Embassy of Athens a year ago, after which they produced the required by the Australian doctors certificates, which were granted by the Greek Government Hospitals, as well as certificates delivered by distinguished University professors, which show the full inability of these pensioners to work. 
Nevertheless, your subordinates instead to send a positive or negative answer to the pensioners' appeals, by the press they call the pensioners living in Greece as culpables 
The medical reports of the Greek Hospitals in the pensioners' hands, show and confirm the full inability of these pensioners to work, and contradict the slanderous accusations of yours. 
These certificates are: your accusers and responsible at this moment: is 'YOUR EXCELLENCY' as you have abandoned ill persons who are in need of clinical treatment and children under age, left without food and medicaments for their treatments with a myth of fictitious pensions . . . 
We accuse and make also Your Excellency responsible, because you ignore the pursuant articles of human rights for social protection which Australia also has signed and because you do not apply the bilateral conventions between Greece and Australia about the pensions. 
The articles of the declaration of human rights and bilateral conventions Greece-Australia show and impose upon Your Excellency and the Australian Government, not only the grant again of the unjustly interrupted disabled pensions as soon as possible but also to stop the accusations against the disabled pensioners living in Greece. 
I am aware that that is confusing and I am happy enough to table the document. The translation is not good but obviously it is a plea for help from an organisation of Greek-Australians in Greece. On receipt of it, as I say, the Opposition checked the authenticity of it. I went back and checked some of the answers I had received in the past in this place about the treatment of Australian pensioners in Greece- not anyone, I might add, involved in the present court case in New South Wales; no one who has been charged or anything else. I found some difficulties with the answers that I had received in the Parliament in the last 1 8 months. It was our understanding in the Opposition that those overseas pensions were cancelled and that the cheques of these people were stopped following a telephone call to the Department of Social Security representative in Geneva,  Mr Morgan,  about the time that the arrests were made in another case in Sydney- on about 1 April last year. I tried to establish the facts of the case in this Parliament by asking questions and by raising the matter in many debates. For instance, on 1 March this year I asked the Minister for Social Security the following question: 
1 ) Who gave the order to terminate invalid pensions in Greece in April 1978. 
) When was the order given. 
3 ) When did the termination occur. 
The answer I received on 30 May this year in fact did not answer any of those parts of the question. The answer to the question stated- 
1 ) As a result of investigations in Australia, 138 people in Greece received letters in April 1978 asking them to attend for a medical review to re-establish eligibility for invalid pensions. 
and (3) The cases were reviewed and dealt with progressively between April and June 1978, as the results of medical reviews become available. 
These answers in fact are inaccurate. We have checked on what happened. The pensions were cancelled first as a result of a phone call from the Director-General,  Mr Lanigan,  to  Mr Morgan.  The questions and reviews were done later. I will return to the matter of the reviews later in my speech. These invalid pensions involved medical reviews. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
1 ) In what form is the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) monthly summary of work test reports kept. 
Is there a monthly breakdown of the number of people failing the work test at each CES office. 
On what grounds are failures of the work test recorded. 
-I refer the Minister for Social Security to the meeting of 15 or 16 September 1977 at which it was decided to draw up a ministerial for her benefit, to justify the payment of $30,000 to an informant in the present social security fraud case. I also refer the Minister to paragraph I of a minute between Detective Chief Inspector Thomas and the OfficerinCharge of the New South Wales District of the police force, which states: 
Following discussions with  Mr Lanigan  and other senior members of the Department of Social Security in Canberra, in company with the Assistant Commissioner (Crime),  Mr J.  D. Davies, I was notified that the Minister had agreed to a maximum reward of $30,000 subject to the conditions that the amount paid to any informant would be based on an assessment of the value of the inquiry, the informant's contribution and the results obtained in the completion of the inquiry. 
I ask: Was the Minister notified of the meeting? Was she shown the ministerial which stated the reasons for paying $30,000? Did  Mr Lanigan  in fact discuss with her a maximum reward of $30,000 to be paid to  Mr Nakis?  If he did not notify her and if he did not show her these ministerials, should the Minister not take some action against  Mr Lanigan  or other public servants who are creating the perhaps unwarranted impression that the Minister is misleading the Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What has been the total amount of Commonwealth funding of Aboriginal health and welfare projects undertaken to mark the International Year of the Child. 
How much has been contributed by each Commonwealth Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What has been the total amount of Commonwealth funding of migrant health and welfare  projects  undertaken to mark the International Year of the Child. 
How much has been contributed by each Commonwealth department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
What amounts have been expended during: (a) 1978-79; and (b) 1979-80, (i) directly to organisations; and (ii) to organisations through each State Government to establish projects for the International Year of the Child. 
It is not possible to provide an answer to the honourable senator's question because of difficulties in identifying those projects which have been exclusively established for the International Year of the Child (IYC). This is so because the emphasis during IYC is on ensuring that existing programs and services for children are reviewed and, where appropriate, improved and that steps are taken towards the development of new programs to meet identified needs of children. Additionally, expenditures for 1978-79 and 1979-80 for other Commonwealth departments and the States and Territories are not known to my Department. 
In regard to my Depanment, some projects funded under the Children's Services Program during the IYC have been designated as IYC projects; for example, the grant to the Child Accident Prevention Foundation, and the grant to the YWCA for the 'Child to Child ' project. 
International Year of the Child: Expenditure on Projects (Question No. 1862) 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
What amounts have been expended on projects for the International Year of the Child by: (a) each State; (b) local governments in each State; and (c) private organisations in each State, in collaboration with Department of Social Security during: (i) 1978-79; and (u) 1979-80. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) What has been the total expenditure of: (a) the Office of Child Care; and (b) other divisions of the Department of Social Security, to mark the International Year of the Child. 
How much of that expenditure was on publicity and promotion by: (a) the department; and (b) outside private agencies. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) How much of the total costs of projects funded by the Depanment of Social Security to mark the International Year of the Child (IYC) has come from the Children's Services Program, in: (a) 1978-79; and (b) 1979-80. 
Which of these projects were particularly earmarked as IYC projects and would not normally have been funded under the Children's Services Program. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What projects have been funded by the Depanment of Social Security for the International Year of the Child and at what cost. 
What projects were rejected for funding by the Department for the International Year of the Child, and what were their estimated costs. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 6 October 1 979: 
1 ) Why was $4.4 million underspent in the year 1 978-79 in the Handicapped Persons Assistance Program. 
In which States did underspending occur, for what reasons, and in respect of what projects. 
What projects in each State had received approval but did not go ahead in 1978-79, and what was the value of each of these projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October  1 979: 
1 ) How many applications have been received by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, including its State offices, for funding under the Migrant Project Subsidy Scheme. 
From which organisations have the applications been received. 
Which organisations have so far (as at 24 October 1979): (a) received; and (b) been promised, funding under the scheme. 
What are the amounts involved. 
asked the Minister for Social Security upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
1 ) When was the North- West One-Stop Welfare Centre (the NOW Centre) established in Coburg. 
Was it originally intended to function as an experiment in welfare delivery and for how long was it intended to function. 
3 ) Is it expected that it will continue to perform its present functions. 
What evaluation has been done on the work of the NOW Centre, and what recommendations have been made about its future. 
Are any such evaluations or recommendations publicly available; if not, why not. 
What, if any, action is proposed to establish more centres, of this type. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
How many pensioners in each State have been: (a) financially assisted personally; or (b) assisted in other ways personally, to rent privately in their own neighbourhoods, under the scheme to provide housing assistance for pensioners which came into operation on 1 July 1 978. 
In what specific ways have pensioners in category (b) above been assisted. 
Which non-profit organisations in each State have been given money to provide subsidised housing for pensioners; how many pensioners have benefited from this expenditure; and what evaluation of this form of rental assistance is planned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
What costs are borne by: (a) the Depanment of Administrative Services; (b) the Commonwealth Police; (c) the New South Wales Government; (d) the New South Wales Police; (e) the Attorney-General's Depanment; and (0 the Depanment of Social Security, in the apportionment of court costs in the current case concerning the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
1 ) How many witnesses already in Australia giving, or preparing to give, evidence in the current court cases concerning the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales are in the care of the Department of Social Security. 
What has been the cost of these witnesses to the Department incurred in: (a) travel; (b) accommodation, food and other support; and (c) Commonwealth Police protection, to 29 August 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) How many witnesses have been brought back from Greece to give evidence in the current court cases concerning the alleged Greek frauds in New South Wales. 
What is the cost to the Department of Social Security, to 29 August 1979 of providing these witnesses with: (a) travel; (b) accommodation, food and other support; and (c) Commonwealth police protection. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Has  Mr J.  H. Jamison been appointed as  Chairman  of the Commission of Inquiry into the Efficiency and Administration of Hospitals; if so, will he be acting as  Chairman  in a full-time capacity. 
Does  Mr Jamison  hold any other appointment from the Commonwealth Government. 
Does  Mr Jamison  hold any appointments as a receiver of collapsed companies; if so: (a) on what dates was he appointed as receiver and what are the names of the companies; (b) for how long has he been making inquiries into, and settling the affairs of the creditors of, each of these companies; and (c) has at least one association of such creditors expressed its dissatisfaction with the lack of progress made by  Mr Jamison  on their behalf. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
On what dates were payments commenced to each Counsel acting on behalf of the Commonwealth in the alleged social security conspiracy case. 
In respect of how many days were payments made in the case of each Counsel? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
How many officers in the Commonwealth Employment Service are engaged: (a) full-time; and (b) part-time, in the search for new job vacancies. 
What methods are used in the search for new job vacancies. 
What particular experiments have been undertaken to register new job vacancies. 
During what period was each experiment conducted, and what was the success rate in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
Have Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) offices been given instructions that income statements to claim unemployment benefits shall not be lodged after a certain hour, for example, midday. 
Is such notification at the discretion of the officer in charge of each CES office. 
What reasons are given for the refusal to accept income statements at any time the office is open to the public. 
Is there any reason that income statements cannot be lodged at any time, with warnings given that a late statement may mean a delayed unemployment benefit cheque. 
Can CES offices be requested to post notices in the spirit of the procedure described in (4) above, rather than refusing to accept income statements from people who have travelled long distances to lodge them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 8 November 1 979: 
1 ) How many Community Youth Support Schemes are operating in Australia. 
How many unemployed people attend these centres on a monthly basis. 
What percentage of the unemployed do they represent. 
What is the age limit for participants in the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
How much money is allocated per annum to such schemes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 19 November 1979: 
1 ) Is the use of diethylstilbestrol, or similar hormones, in animals for human consumption legal. 
What amount of diethylstilbestrol is used annually in Australia in the production of meat. 
How does such use, if any, affect our access to overseas markets. 
