In view of the Government's undertaking to reduce its expenditure in line with reductions in real terms imposed upon the States at the recent Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting, can the Treasurer affirm that the Commonwealth Government will hold its expenditure in the 1974-75 year to the same ratio of expenditure last year as the total cutback financial grants to the States now have in comparison with the allocations to the States for 1973-74? 

 - Mr Speaker, may I first add my congratulations to those of so many others upon your election to your high office. I look forward to your friendship and impartiality. I succeed  Mr Don  Maisey as the representative of the electorate of Moore.  Mr Maisey  served Moore for nearly 11 years as a parliamentarian, and in a sense he served the electorate for many years before that with a contribution to the wheat industry. I am sure that he has contributed much to the electorate. 
The Moore electorate is diverse. It extends from Three Springs in the north to Merredin in the east to the commuter suburbs of the Wanneroo Shire and the Darling Ranges. I am proud to represent farmers, cray fishermen, blue and white collar workers, the young, the old, home owners, home renters and home buyers at present struggling to service mortgages on homes in the face of high interest rates brought about by current government policy. I would be hard pressed to find 2 people among the 64,000-odd constituents of Moore who have identical needs, abilities or ambitions. It is clearly ridiculous to imagine that one strong central government could cater for such diversity. It is clearly ridiculous to imagine that a government 2,500 miles away can make itself aware of the ambitions of groups of parents at Girrawheen or Beacon or the new priorities for roads at Leeming or Kalamunda, or to understand the difficulties of new land farmers or the traffic in Wanneroo Road. It is even more ridiculous to imagine that a central government can rank all diverse matters in some meaningful priority and act in the best interests as seen by the local population. Yet, if the whole purpose of government is not to serve these people, what is its purpose? 
The whole effect of remote control is to enforce needless conformity so that each and every one must accept his second best or third best or even poorest choice. If groups of people elect to go their own ways, to develop their own communities that happen to suit them, is that a bad thing? Is it a bad thing that Australians should have the widest possible choice as to their way of life and their life style? Only such conformity as is necessary to the functioning of the nation and of society ought to be imposed, not that conformity which is necessary to impose a political philosophy. Furthermore, if Government is to have the authority that comes from cooperation it is necessary that the people feel that they are part of the process of Government; it is necessary that they take an active part in the process of government, be it State or shire or even a parents committee. Furthermore again, if Government is to remain responsible not just to Parliament but to those governed, it is most important that people can easily and personally take issue with their elected representatives. There is no one easier to kick, as the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  has pointed out to the House, than your local shire councillor - poor chap. There is no one more responsive to popular wish, yet real power over the most vital issues is almost removed from his hands. 
I wish now to say a word about the meaning of decentralisation. It is, in truth, 2 issues - one of people and one of powers. They are often confused; I believe often deliberately confused. The Australian Labor Party talks of growth centres like AlburyWodonga. There is decentralisation of people. Time and circumstance may show just how sincere it is on that issue. When one ponders roads, telephones, superphosphate then, with the greatest charity, one wonders. However. my concern for the moment is with decentralisation of powers. The present Government makes no pretence of a commitment to decentralised authority. It is unashamedly and with commendable consistency committed to centralised power. The erosion of State and local government authority is, I concede, nothing new though the process has accelerated out of sight in the last 18 months. Because the tendency dates back to Federation and has continued at varying rates through governments of the Right and the Left, we must look for innate causes as well as those of political commitment. We will need to understand those causes in order either to halt or to reverse the trend.  Major taxing  power is at the centre. The Commonwealth undoubtedly has the widest tax base and the shires undoubtedly the narrowest. The flow of funds is from the centre out. Given that tax policy is, or can be, a major tool in the management of the economy, this is good and maybe even necessary. When the money flows out, however, authority flows in. Funds with all sorts of instructions as to their use flow from Commonwealth to State to shire, and so authority flows from shire to State to Commonwealth. It is another case of he who is paying the piper is calling the tune. 
The States are both victims and aggressors. The process in the past, I suspect, was initiated by the natural tendency for every person to accept his own judgment first. Ministers of the Crown, in effect, said: 'We cannot possibly let the States or shires spend all that money we have raised in such and such a manner when I judge otherwise'. They felt responsible for the moneys, and yet there is no reason to believe that they are any less fallible than those nearer to the people. What once occurred by degrees and by default has now taken on the form of an organised attack. The strategy is simple. First beggar the States and shires, then offer them grants tied in the most minute detail that in the face of bankruptcy they cannot refuse; play State off against State, shire off against shire, and both off against their electors. Witness the Coogee by-election in which one State Premier was called in to defeat another, using the argument that the people of Coogee were suffering because the State of New South Wales had not accepted tied Commonwealth grants. Maybe the people of Coogee are worse off in the very short term - I do not concede that they are - but how much 'better off will the State of New South Wales be in the long term if the principle of State authority can be established? Local government is being emasculated so that instead of being the third arm of government it is becoming an administrative organ of the Commonwealth without meaningful powers of determination. And what of the States? As I understand both the policy and the trend, they are to disappear altogether. So much for the situation as it is. 
I turn now to what might be done about it. We can, on track record, dismiss any hopes that the Whitlam Government of its own initiative will do anything to decentralise powers. Perhaps on occasions those pieces of legislation that most blatantly usurp State and local authority will find passage through the Senate too stormy. However, the failure of those Bills will result at least in temporary financial difficulties for those same States and shires. The transfer of power too often does not depend on legislation in any case. In the face of current politics and government policy the one hope is that the States will make a stand together and use what political muscle they can muster to defy the usurpation of those powers that it was constitutionally intended they should exercise. Their united voice will surely carry some weight so long as this Government cherishes any hopes of re-election at some future date. 
The meeting of the 6 State Premiers in Melbourne - two of them Labor, one Country Party and 3 Liberal - is historic. It is the first time, I believe, that they have met in the absence of a Prime Minister. At least in some areas a joint approach was agreed upon. They displayed a willingness to speak with one voice to the Commonwealth on at least some matters. The Commonwealth Government - any Commonwealth Government - must find it more difficult to resist a united voice, particularly one that contains members of the same Party as the central government. The united approach 'becomes, in a sense, an appeal to the electorate at large - the final determinant in all matters political. The only satisfactory long term solution to the problem of State and local government powers is the provision of adequate finance over which the State or shire has complete determination and for which it is completely responsible. This is not to say that they must raise all their own taxes; rather it is to say, firstly, that general untied grants should be sufficient to enable the recipient to conduct its own affairs as it wishes and, secondly, that the grants should be finite and should engender responsibility. Irresponsible expenditure should never result in further grants. Matching money techniques are unsatisfactory because the smaller body need never weigh the total cost against the benefit. Fourthly, revenue will need to grow with population and inflation. A guaranteed proportion of income taxes flowing to the States as of right without strings would fulfil these needs. It would return real authority to the States. Then, with the States meeting the Commonwealth as equals, it might be possible to agree upon a sensible rationalisation of responsibilities with powers transferred in both directions. I commend the amendment. 
It will not take me long to make the few points I wish to make. This is an important matter which I suspect the Government has introduced as a political exercise. 
It is not rubbish, and I will defend my point of view. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  on the Minister's side of the House, outlined the difficulties of this exercise yet the Government sets out to pre-empt this proposed committee. I believe- I speak for myself and for a great many other members from this side- that there ought to be a register of members' interests. However this whole exercise has been proposed in such a way that there is little option but to oppose the motions as they stand. The first motion contains the words 'communications which a member might have with other members'. How wide and how vague these words are. It refers also to a member's communications with servants of the Crown. Could this relate to every Post Office employee? There is reference to indirect interests. Surely that expression needs denning. It refers to interests 'of whatever nature'. Is that not ridiculously broad? 
The motion refers to interests that a member may have had. Do honourable members really believe that anyone is competent to research his affairs back far enough to ascertain any interests that he may have had but which he does not have now or which he may have in the future? The Government has set up this exercise in such a way that there is little option but to oppose the motion. Those of us who would support a register of members' interests must oppose the motion as it stands. However I would support it in its proposed amended form because then there would be a committee competent to make investigations and perhaps put some workable proposal before the House. 
I have had enough experience of the Australian Labor Party to know the way its propaganda runs and it is not difficult to see why this exercise has been set up in this manner. It is to deny us the opportunity to support the idea of a register. I personally support the idea of a register because among other things it would limit the opportunity for accusation that a member of Parliament was unduly influenced by his pecuniary interests. It would be easy to establish at least what are some of the more obvious pecuniary interests. We have opted for public life. It does not offend me that details of assets should be known to the public. I entered public life and accept this fact. However, it was not the intention that this should be the case when the Government proposed these motions. 
It is necessary not only that a member be above suspicion in these matters but also that he be seen to be above suspicion. It is necessary to know, when a member does have an interest, what effect that interest should have upon the member's rights, privileges and obligations. For instance, is he to be debarred from speaking? Is he to be debarred from voting? Is it sufficient that his vote and his voice be judged in the light of the public knowledge and the knowledge of other honourable members that he has such an interest? These are the sorts of questions that the proposed committee must report upon and until we have the findings of the committee we are not competent to judge. I put it that the Government is not serious in this matter and it wants to see the motion opposed. 
-Before dealing with the matters I intended to speak on, I want to deal with an extraordinary statement by the previous  speaker,  the member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan),  a man whose training I thought should provide him with knowledge enough to know better. 
He did not speak above my head. He spoke of the increase of 10c a bushel in the first advance price on wheat. That 10c a bushel, a move from $1.10 to $1.20, is a far lower proportion of the moneys coming in when compared to the export price of the day; compared to world prices it is far lower; compared to the stabilised price it is far lower. In real terms it is, of course, far lower. It is ridiculous to refer to that as a real rise. It is a fall. 
I still make the point that under our Government a far higher proportion of money received was paid as the first advance. It is not the wish of the Opposition to delay this Bill. It should not be delayed at this time. But that does not mean that we are happy with it. We are most unhappy with it. The industry does not wish to see it delayed. That does not mean that the industry is happy with it. The industry is most unhappy with it. We have seen a radical change of principles. Let me quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who represents the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  Incidentally, he has not bothered to remain to hear the debate. He said: ... the Government concluded that there should be a major revision of the existing stabilisation arrangements. In particular, we - that is, the Government- reached the position that the provision of a guaranteed price for a specific quantity of exports, with the price being adjusted according to certain cost movements from year to year, was not conducive to maximum efficiency in the wheat industry. 
That may be so. He also said that these proposals- are to give the industry some security against price fluctuation without distorting the underlying trend in market prices. 
The proposed scheme distorts the underlying trend in market prices and gives very little protection against price downturns. This industry produces its product in an environment where costs are boosted by the tariff wall and by industrial policies of the Government, and are abetted by the Government. It has been argued, and reasonably argued, in the past that a high home consumption price- that is, high in relation to the world price with tariff compensation- was the thing that brought the market forces back into balance and back into play. 
Incidentally, were there time to refer the matter to the Industries Assistance Commission- obviously there is not- I would find it very hard to believe that the industry could suffer from any inquiry by that Commission. In fact I believe its submissions would stand up very well indeed. The pricing formula used will result in the wheat industry being used to subsidise the home market, and to subsidise it heavily. This policy will be deflationary in that it will both reduce costs and reduce money in growers' pockets. Even to that extent it might be deflationary. 
Deflationary. It will reduce the money in growers' pockets and to that extent it might be deflationary. It will also raise the level of unemployment. It might even be considered quite sound if the industry were offered anything reasonable, but it is offered nothing in return. The home consumption price should not move up and down with every shift in market forces, but it should reflect likely long term trends and in adverse times it should cushion violent downturns in the market that would disrupt the industry and bring hardship to even the most efficient producers. 
The home consumption price is to be adjusted by annual reference to costs except that the allowance for the grower's return- his basic wage, as it were- is fixed according to 1968 values. In these times of spiralling wages and prices why single out wheat growers to stand still in money terms and to fall back very rapidly in real terms? There is currently around 86 million bushels of wheat used within Australia. Exports should yield in excess of $2.73 a bushel with a probability of $3 a bushel. The 86 million bushels sold to the home market at 75c less than export 
E rices represents an annual contribution to the mme market of $64m or $320m over the life of the agreement. For anyone to argue that escalating costs will force up the home consumption price as we live with inflation and so reduce the margin between the home consumption price and the export price, is to say that this Government is going to allow a situation in which our rate of inflation will inevitably be higher than that of our trading partners. Heaven help us, for that will destroy the export market. In return for this contribution the Australian wheatgrower is offered stabilisation- or equalisation- but at what level? 
In the event of a drastic slump the growers' price is to be stabilized from a fund of $80m to which he himself has been contributing. How much will he have been contributing? The growers will have contributed $48m now and in all probability, the whole $80m- with nearly the remainder going in this season. We can forecast with reasonable expectation that prices will be more than 1 5c above the stabilization price for at least the first 2 years. Every contribution of the Government to this fund will be repaid in the event of grower contributions later placing moneys back into the fund. So, it is almost impossible to envisage a situation where the Government would be involved in any loss whatsoever. Nevertheless, let us consider the most costly but still unlikely position in which the Government might find itself. That is, growers contribute- as they certainly will- $48m in the first year and $30m in the next year and the remaining $2m in the third year. If the wheat market collapses completely the Government pays out $30m in each of the remaining 3 years- in the most unlikely event of a prolonged and unpredicted slump. Even in those conditions the Government would have to find a mere $10m. The export price would need to fall to most unlikely low levels for the home consumption price to return the $128m subsidy that the wheatgrower is providing to the home market in the first 2 years. In fact, the Government is using the wheat industry in an anti-inflationary policy and offering it nothing in return. 
Let me come to the accusations of obstruction by the State governments. Let us look at the position in Western Australia in particular and at why the Court Government was so reluctant to accept these provisions. First of all, in Western Australia we have produced 29 per cent of the wheat and we have 22 per cent of the quota. We have no great incentive to stay with this scheme. We have the greatest potential to expand our wheat production and to bring further land under wheat. Yet, the quota was frozen. We have a freight advantage that has never been adequately recognised. We have no border over which we can trans-ship wheat and so avoid the provisions of the quota and the restrictions imposed. If honourable members consider that is a small matter I ask them to consider that when world prices rose and it no longer paid to sell wheat outside the system wheat for home consumption purchased from the Board jumped by 26 million bushels. A lot of wheat was being sold outside the system. Western Australia was not in that. There was no opportunity. Not that I believe that any grower ought to have been in it. 
Because Western Australia has a low home consumption and a high export, when we are faced with an inequitable scheme such as thisinequitable between the consumers and the producers Australia, perforce, makes a much greater contribution to the inequity. Western Australia had every reason to be very chary about this wheat scheme, and hence the stand of the Court Government. 
I wish to say something about wheat quality and payment for quality. For too long the industry has been offered no financial incentive to produce quality wheat. It is too often confused with the argument of segregation and the admitted difficulties of segregating a vast number of wheat varieties. It is sufficient that the wheat growers be paid for producing quality, and all that is necessary to conduct the machinery of this exercise is that sufficient sampling be done so that each grower can be rewarded for producing something better than the minimum standards- standards, incidentally, that have to be set so that most growers can meet them. If we again go into times when wheat is difficult to sell we will regret not having done our level best to produce the best wheat within Australia. Finally, I summarise my remarks about the scheme itself. Growers contribute much- $64m a year- and they get little. In all probability they will get nothing. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.1)- I was very surprised to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  blame the Government for the delay in the introduction of these wheat Bills. The Opposition seems to have a great capacity to cause delay and to blame it on the Government. The delay in the introduction of these Bills was caused by the Senate's refusing to introduce measures that were approved by the people at the May elections. Not only did the Senate refuse to endorse the measures; it even went as far as going into court in an effort to prevent the Government from holding the Joint Sitting of the Parliament. It is a lot of rot to say that the Government is holding up its own legislation. I do not think any of the electors will be fooled by this type of propaganda. The honourable member for New England was critical of the fact that there has been some delay in the export of wheat because of an industrial dispute. Does he forget that there was an even longer delay when the Opposition was in government? At that time we had no overseas markets to supply. It was not until this Government went out and obtained markets that we had any opportunity to export wheat. 
The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  has mentioned the Tariff Board. It seems to be a strange thing that the Opposition parties want to remind the people of what happened with tariffs during the 23 years that they were in government. The wheat growers were concerned about tariffs. They asked our predecessors to remove them, but it was not until the Labor Party came into power that there was a 25 per cent reduction in tariffs. 
I support the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill because I believe that, together with the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Bill and the Wheat Export Charge Bill, it will introduce a stabilisation plan in respect of the 5 growing seasons starting on 1 October 1 974. 1 believe that this is a very desirable proposition. It will remove much of the uncertainty in the minds of wheat growers and will allow them to plan then production over a long period. This will result in better planning and therefore a greater financial return to the industry. These measures should meet with the approval of the industry. When introducing these Bills the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  told us that they had been accepted by the industry organisations. So they should be, because then basic aim is to bring security against price fluctuations. The legislation sets out to do this without any undue interference with market prices. I want to point out here that I do not intend the inference to be taken that there should never be any interference with market prices. I am reminded of what happened with the wool markets. If there had not been some interference with those markets many wool growers would be out of production today. I do not think that interference is quite as necessary in regard to wheat because the Australian Wheat Board is the sole marketing authority and has control over all wheat marketed in Australia as well as the wheat and wheat products exported from Australia. 
I agree with the provision that the Australian Wheat Board is to have power for two seasons beyond the duration of this stabilisation scheme because to grow and market wheat is no small operation. Big things, of necessity, should gain momentum slowly and, of course, they should be run down slowly. These measures bring in a stabilisation on price related to movement in the international wheat market. I am in favour of this because I believe that no responsible government should introduce a scheme which is not related to either the requirements of an international market or to home consumption. If this were not so our valuable resources could be wasted and excess wheat could be produced, although I am prepared to admit that this is highly unlikely in the foreseeable future. 
This scheme provides for abandonment of the concept of a guaranteed price and replaces it with a stabilisation price related to movements in the international wheat market. The grower will know in advance what his return will be and will know that it will not be below a certain figure. As a matter of fact, the 1974-75 price will be $73.49 per tonne f.o.b., or, as stated already, $2 per bushel. This is an advance on the present legislation because it does not contain this provision. It applies, of course, to all wheat exported. Honourable members should compare this scheme with the present legislation and the dried vine fruits stabilisation legislation. The scheme for dried vine fruits contained a tonnage limitation but no limitation applied to new plantings and this forced many growers off then land. 
This wheat stabilisation scheme will provide security not only for those directly involved in growing wheat but also for those indirectly involved. It is only just that in a time of buoyant prices the industry should make some contribution to the cost of the scheme. Regardless of this the Government is guaranteeing the scheme to the extent of $80m over 5 years. Any government contribution not recouped before the end of the 5 year period will be written off. The Minister has explained already that this provision is not contained in the BUI but he mentioned it in this House for the record. In addition the grower is to pay no contribution if the average export price is below $55.12 per tonne, or $1.50 per bushel, and he will receive a contribution from the fund under the formula set out in clause 29 (5) of the Bill. Also, he will receive a distribution when the fund is in credit in excess of $80m. The inclusion of clauses 2 1 (6) and 23 ( 1 ) (b) will close a lot of loopholes that exist in the present legislation. All honourable members remember the period when we had the across-the-border black market in wheat. Today we heard a lot about slush funds of the deep sea sailors. I am not saying that the same thing applies in regard to black marketing in over-the-border wheat, but I point out that a lot of this black marketing was going on and it put many wheat growers off the land. The previous Government was in a position to do something about it but failed to do it. 
The provision to include 10 growers ' representatives on the Board has been retained. I believe that is to the credit of the Government. The legislation is being amended to give one home consumption price. I believe that here again another loophole in the present legislation has been blocked off, because there is no doubt that nonhuman consumption wheat has been finding its way into markets to which it should not have found its way. Having a good general standard of wheat throughout is a much better idea. 
I hope that the Opposition will not delay the passing of these Bills, because already there are restrictions on expanding the world food supplies. The traditional approach to increasing production by expanding the area under cultivation can no longer apply or has limited scope for the future. This is because densely populated countries like Japan and the countries of western Europe no longer have land available for crop production. Added to this, most of the rivers that lend themselves to damming and irrigation have already been developed. We have yet to learn what impact the energy crisis will have on food production. It could well mean that energy cost may cause farmers engaged in high energy consuming agriculture, such as that in practice in the United States of America, to hold down production. I believe we have a duty to create a global food reserve to provide a measure of world price stability. I think that in the long run this will be in the self interest of all nations. I commend the Bills to the House. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the state of preparedness of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Are all squadrons at full strength. 
If not, to what extent are they below strength, both in respect of men and serviceable aircraft. 
To what extent are available aircraft backed up by adequate logistical support. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What Commonwealth moneys have been spent on wheat storage in each State, and in which years were the funds committed. 
-The Minister for Overseas Trade and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said on the television program 'This Day Tonight' on 21 August 1974 that he wished to change the system. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech said that the present slack conditions provided 'the first real opportunity  to transfer resources to the public sector'. In my more charitable moments I think that perhaps the Government got the country into its present economic position by accident; at other times, in the light of those 2 statements, I wonder. The  Deputy  Prime Minister, in his recent speech during the debate on a matter of public importance, spoke of the Government having reduced inflation by 10 per cent. One is led to wonder to what the 10 per cent is related. Is it related to the worst possible situation that could exist- if the Government made every mistake that it possibly could- or is it related to some deliberately created situation in which inflation runs at the highest possible level. Inflation is a very efficient means of transferring resources to the public sector. It is this efficiency that I wish to discuss. 
I wish to discuss the effect of inflation upon progressive taxation. We have had inflation with us for a long time, but in the 19 years to 1972-73 personal taxation increased by only 0.48 per cent per annum. In the last 2 years, the years in which the Labor Government has been in office, taxation has been increased by 2.35 per cent per annum. Circumstances have changed considerably as the rate of inflation has skyrocketed. Let us look at the effect of inflation upon income tax scales. Let us take the case of a family consisting of a husband, a wife and 2 children, on a mere $100 a week wage and whose income just keeps pace with inflation. The tax payable on their income in 1973-74 would have been $862.68. 
The tax payable in 1974-75, if we have a 20 per cent inflation rate, the rate predicted in the Budget, and the taxpayer receives a 20 per cent rise in his income half way through the year, would amount to $371 -odd in the first 6 months, and $552.80 in the second 6 months, a total of $924 or an increase of $6 1 .32. That would be the position under the new tax scales. The Government has the effrontery to call that a tax reduction. 
Let us look at a hypothetical situation with no so-called tax reduction but the old tax scales and inflation running at 5 per cent, which is higher than the rate under the previous Government. In the first 6 months the man to whom I referred would pay $431.34 tax, and in the second 6 months $474.63, a total of $905.97. These figures assume that the wage earner receives his 5 per cent wage rise half way through the year. In other words, he would pay $18 less in tax if we had moderate inflation and the old tax scales. 
I am saying that wages rise at the same rate as prices, yes. If an additional 2 per cent is allowed the same conclusion can be reached. Let us look at the effect of inflation on capital taxes. Let us consider a 3,000 acre property worth $50 an acre and stock and plant worth $50,000, that is, a $200,000 business. I am talking about a modest farming property that returns a very modest income. If the Budget forecast of a 22 per cent inflation rate is accurate, then in 5 years time in money terms at that time that property will be worth $540,540. That is a staggering increase in money terms but that is just to hold its present real value. In other words, it could be swapped for the same amount of goods and services as it can now. Since rural business seems to be a little out of favour at the moment, let us say that a property appreciates at only 15 per cent per annum. I think a rural producer would be very fortunate to stay a mere 7 per cent behind inflation rates the way he is faring in the economy at the moment. He has a real loss over that time of some 28 per cent. Yet if the owner of that property dies his estate will have to find in taxes at the date of his death $2 13,000 or 53 per cent of the then value of the property. This will be made up as follows: The proposed capital gains tax- $67,427, or 16.7 per cent of the then value; State probate duty taken from the Western Australian scales- $83,712, which is incidentally $16,857 less to the State than if there had been no capital gains tax imposed beforehand; and Federal estate duty of $62,800. After allowing for a $35,000 matrimonial home- I am now talking in 1974 money values- the value of which has been inflated as was the case with property by IS per cent in a mere 5 years, the total taxes due will amount to S3 per cent of the value of that property. Inflation and its effect upon the progressive tax scales has resulted in a massive and very efficient transfer of resources to the public sector. I suspect that the Government knows exactly what it is doing and that we have not reached this position by accident. 
-Honourable members opposite have made a very strong case for no fault compensation. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  made a very tidy case. The only trouble with his case is that it is not in dispute. This appears as yet another case of ill-thought-through legislation. The concept of no fault compensation has a great deal to recommend it and the Opposition wishes to retain this concept. However I find it hard to believe that this Bill is serious. On the last occasion that I accused the Government of presenting legislation that it knew very well ought to be rejected or deferred because of inherent impractibilities I was taken to task by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table. On that last occasion he had much to say about my being new to this place. I am new, and new boy that I am, I still have enough belief in the system to just not believe that a government, any government, could be so ill-informed as to bring in by accident legislation that has so many quite clear omissions, impracticabilities and anomalies. 
The Opposition is left with the difficult task of preserving what is good in the hope that the Bill may one day come before this House in a workable and relatively anomaly free form. The Government obviously intended at the time the matter was introduced that it remain before the House for some time in that the Minister invited amendment. This is a very sensible procedure. Why is it now being rushed through? Is the Government looking to a double dissolution or is it trying to build a case of Senate obstruction by forcing poor legislation through this House? Previous speakers on this side of the House have spoken in detail of the shortcomings of this Bill. I intend to speak of principles and timing in the hope that the matter will remain before us for some time yet. 
Australia, and indeed most Western democracies, have lived with a system of compensation at common law. It does have much to recommend it in spite of its 2 great failings of high adminstrative cost and inequity as between those who can establish fault on the part of a second or third party and those who cannot. But the Bill before the House poses 2 great alternative faults. They are first, the very strong probability of a very high cost of operation as opposed to administration, and secondly, the very strong probability of great inequities between beneficiaries under the scheme. It is my belief that we can have the best of no liability insurance without excessive cost, without extremes of inequity and without embracing administrative impossibilities. 
I have had some experience with accidents- a minor eye injury for which I am to receive substantial financial compensation, and the loss of an arm for which I have not and will not receive such compensation. Though there is, I suppose, a risk that my judgment might be dominated by personal experience, it is also true that I have the benefit of an intermittent interest in the subject over many years. This has included the critical assessment of others who have been physically injured. One group of people, albeit a substantial one, which is seriously disadvantaged by the present scheme consists of those who have received an impairment to their health or physical skills such that they cannot cope with life as they find it. These people need help whether their condition is the result of sickness or accident or is congenital. 
The inability of these people to cope is not measurable by reference to the injury alone. The same injury will affect different people in different circumstances and to a very different degree. For example- I hope the House will excuse me for drawing on my own experience- a single-arm amputee really dependent upon manual dexterity to earn his accustomed livelihood, be he labourer or musician, is in need of public assistance, but one who is not dependent on such manual dexterity, even though he was accustomed to making use of it, and who in his normal course of occupation would normally require manual dexterity but is not dependent on it, is not in need of compensation. There are plenty of successful one-armed farmers- farmers who would normally be expected by many to be those who would depend upon their manual dexterity. In fact they are not. Man is a most adaptable animal, but he needs an incentive to adapt. Leave him with incentive for his own sake as well as to avoid overloading the system. 
On the other hand, some conditions such as quadriplegia or a serious stroke require all the patient's effort to adjust to the daily chores of existence alone without room for sufficient surplus energy to provide for the patient's own support or the support of his family. A widow with a young family needs more help than she receives at present. Under the proposals in this Bill I, who had any amount of opportunity to adjust, would receive more compensation than a farm hand, possibly with minimal mental skills and a poor choice for adjustment. Under the proposals of this Bill the Government would be thrusting compensation upon me and denying him adequate compensation. 
It is essential that compensation be assessed in relation to individual opportunity. It is essential that it be afforded to all those who really need it. It is essential that public resources be not wasted. Those who do not need compensation very often would be afforded assistance that would in fact be to their detriment, not to their welfare. It is essential that that not happen. In these times of economic chaos we cannot afford massive wasted resources. It is essential that this phase of new and complex government activity be taken slowly. In the fond belief that either this Government will accept the Opposition amendment or that in another place the matter will be deferred for consideration, or- and this is perhaps more likely- that before the eggs become too hopelessly scrambled this Opposition will be the Government, I propose a very different method of phasing in these remedies from the one placed before us. 
Because it is essential to help those in need- a need that must be assessed by a far more sophisticated means that those proposed in this Bill- I believe that initial effort must be directed to those people in the greatest need. There is every reason to retain, at least for the time being, the common law remedies and the workers' compensation legislation remedies until we can become confident that we have a better system. Let us hasten slowly. The initial step should be for the Commonwealth to provide compensation for those who have a high level of disability assessed irrespective of whether those injured or sick are congenitally so or have become so later in life, and irrespective of whether they have rights at common law or under the workers compensation Act. Compensation should be paid according to a formula that relates to the percentage of incapacity rather than to the nature of the injury. It should be paid for the period of that incapacity, but incapacity for short periods should not qualify for compensation. 
As the Commonwealth benefit would be automatic once the disability is assessed, damages assessed for workers compensation, motor vehicle third party and public risk awards will be reduced by the amount of the Commonwealth benefit. Premiums for such risk cover as a result would be commensurately lower. I am acutely aware of the evils of the slow legal process and of what is called 'litigation neurosis'. I am also aware that my proposals will preserve the slower legal process for the time being. However, I am very fearful that the nation is embarking on a project as unjust as the present system and inordinately more costly, and which will itself be a disincentive to rehabilitation. 
I shall tell a small story that might give some idea of the extent to which this might happen. I asked my surgeon a few days after he took my arm off how long I was likely to be in hospital. He answered with another question: 'Are you paying for all this?' What effect do honourable members think this should have upon the whole system? Why did the surgeon ask whether I was paying for it? Because apparently the desire to get back to work is a great rehabilitator. All I ask is that we take this new and quite excellent and undisputed concept slowly. 
I would narrow the first stage of the scheme to apply only to those in real need and widen it later to include all those in real need, including those suffering from sickness, irrespective of the date at which the condition was first noticed. The cover could gradually be expanded in the light of experience to lower percentage disability and to include shorter periods of disability. Let us crawl before we walk lest we make a needless mess of the whole business. The stupidities of the draft Bill I have not discussed as they were adequately handled by speakers on this side of the House, but they are evidence of the sort of hopeless mess we can get into and the mess we can make of excellent intent. 
I take issue with the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  on 2 points. The honourable member outlined very conventional and sound economic principles when speaking about the wool industry, but does he really believe that 250c per kilogram for clean wool is a price which is going to force the wool market and result in a resort to substitution? Does he really believe that at that price the industry will be able to carry on at the level to which we have been accustomed? I suggest that at that level it will be only a potholing exercise. We are holding it at minimal levels. It is merely a smoothing of the market in its up and down flows. In relation to his comments about the beef industry, I suggest to the honourable member for Kingston that he should look at how much of the price of beef in a butcher shop goes to the grower. One can have high beef prices and a low return to the grower. I would like also to take issue with the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  Speaking about the Government he said: 
Not everything we have done has been bad, as some honourable members on the other side of the Parliament would try to make us believe. 
What an extraordinarily undemanding criterion he is using to defend the Government. All I say in answer to that is that not everything the Government has done has been good either. 
The honourable member for Moreton said by way of interjection that the Government has not done very much that is good. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  has pointed out that the estimates for the Department of Agriculture are down and that it is one of the few departments for which the estimates are down. I add to that by saying only that the fall in money terms of some 10 per cent is in real terms a fall of some 30 per cent, which is an extraordinarily high fall. It is quite consistent, of course. The Australian Labor Party did not win too much support in the rural areas at the last election and it believes that it will have to get by without the support of the rural areas. 
I wish to speak briefly about one function of the Department of Agriculture, that is, its function as a provider of information to primary industry. That is a very major function which should not be underrated. The benefit derived could be very substantial indeed if the information is reliable, timely and widely disseminated, but if it is not the benefit derived could be minimal. I refer firstly to market information. The Department should be, as far as possible, a provider of information as to market trends. That is a very difficult exercise, as was quite rightly pointed out earlier by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  In that respect one has only to look at the history of the beef industry and the predictions that were made about the beef industry, and compare them with events as they have occurred and the difficulties facing the beef industry today. However, it is not completely impossible to provide any information. Such information as we do have, particularly provided in a form in which the reliability of the information can be adequately assessed, can only add to the function of the market place and to the reliability of the market system. It is proper that the Federal Government should provide, as one of the services it provides to industry, for the collection, dissemination and analysis of market information.' In this respect I refer to paragraph 6.129 of the Green Paper on agriculture, which reads: 
In view of the need - 
That is the need for information- 
Evident in the past 2 decades for the Australian farmer to be able to respond readily to market circumstances, well researched information on market trends and structural developments is essential. 
Buyers and sellers, if they are equally well informed, provide for the best allocation of resources. However, if one party is better informed than the other, or if buyers and sellers are not equally as well informed as are other buyers and sellers, a more wildly fluctuating market situation than is necessary is created and the misdirection of resources and inequity between the 2 sides of the market result. 
It is a proper role for government to provide reliable information to the producers and to those who handle the products. It is also a proper role for government to explore new marketing outlets for existing products and for new and alternative products. When one industry is in difficulties, sometimes its resources can be applied to new products; sometimes they cannot. But it would be very sad if, when there is an alternative use for those resources, we did not avail ourselves of that use. For instance, do we know what a market outlook there is for lupin flour? Perhaps there is not one. But again, perhaps there is. Have we explored the possibilities of selling large quantities of low protein feed wheat which ships cheaply compared with other feed grains? This is the sort of exploration that is a proper role for government and a proper assistance to many small producers. 
A Government also has a role in the provision of technical information and research for new knowledge and need exists for pure research, but there is also a great need for applied research. For instance, it is not much use exploring the possibilities of increasing the number of awns on wheat in the hope of increasing wheat yield when one can select for wheat yield per se. In passing, I add that it would be a useful aid from the Government if the wages of some research technicians were met on a permanent basis so that these people might make careers of their research. At present such payments are met from periodic research grants. This system works very well in those areas of research where the technicians can be part of the teaching and the training process. It does not work so well in agricultural research. 
Finally I wish to say a few words about extension. All the research in the world is of no use if it is not known to those who must use it, that is, to farmers, their agents, the factories which process farmers' goods and to the service industries that provide goods and services to farmers. When information is wrong, and people get hurt, we find that these are the people who get hurt more than most. There is a long lag between the finding of a new piece of information and its use by farmers in their paddocks. One piece of research that I have seen suggests that the lag is on average as long as 10 years. I am not suggesting that this is the last word on that subject. Rather what I am doing is deploring that this is the only piece of research that I can find on the matter. We need to know why this lag exists, why it needs to be as long as it is, and what we can do about it. Extension is and will be a skilled profession. But those who provide knowledge to farmers and those who service them must be skilled not only in the knowledge that they are imparting but also in the handing over of that knowledge itself. In fact, like Coleridge's Ancient Mariner', they must be able to hold their audience by sheer personality and by technique. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the cost of producing and distributing the 'Australian Post Office News'. 
How many copies of each issue are printed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
To what extent have wheat shipments from Australian ports been delayed as a result of ( a ) shortage of shipping space, (b) shortage of handling facilities, (c) shortage of railway capacity, (d) industrial trouble and (e) other factors. 
At what ports have delays occurred, and to what extent at each port. 
What is the cost to the industry of the delays that have occurred, and what is the nature of those costs. 
Will grain once expected to be shipped occupy country storage space at the start of the 1 974-75 harvest. 
Have any negotiated sales been lost as a result of delayed delivery. 
Has any estimate been made of the extent to which future sales have been prejudiced. 
Has the Government any plans to deal with the situation. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the refusal of the Government to allow Rhodesian passport holders to enter Australia has resulted in the Rhodesian Country Women's Association delegation missing the Associated Country Women of the World's Triennial Conference. 
Is it also a fact that one coloured Rhodesian lady was denied the opportunity of attending on a scholarship. 
Can he say whether a motion was moved by a Canadian delegate and carried by the Conference to the effect that future conferences would only be held in those countries where all members can be represented. 
What are the reasons that make the current Australian attitude to such matters in the best interests of either Australian or the Rhodesian indigenous population. 
I am anxious not to cover ground that has already been covered in this debate. I support the Bill. I wish more to discuss the climate in which we must consider this Bill and the position of the meat industry itself. The Bill provides for the collection of levies to finance research that to this date at any rate has dealt with the handling of meat after it leaves the farm gate. The importance of this is probably sufficiently emphasised if we point out that the present price of beef on the hoof is only 34c a kilo whereas the price to the housewife is approximately twice that per pound. There is a lot of room to save costs in handling beef between the farm gate and the housewife's table. The beef industry could hardly be in worse circumstances. The producer's gross income is down by 40 per cent or 50 per cent at the same time as his costs have risen by some 25 per centall within the space of 12 months. No industry can cope with this sort of sudden cyclical downturn. 
There is a strong case for support for the industry because it is generally believed- it is also believed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics- that this situation will not last forever and that in one or two years' time we might expect better prices. If this is the case it  is  absolutely essential that we have breeders to take advantage of this situation and that the industry has not been allowed to collapse. If we are to save these breeders the people who own these animals will require an income in the meantime. I ask the Government to consider proposals that will give income to the owners of these breeders. I ask it to consider proposals that will maintain the price of beef to the producers of beef in the short-term- to consider something that, in fact, is counter-cyclical support as proposed in the Green Paper on Agriculture. I am thinking of a type of deficiency payment scheme whereby beef as it is sold for slaughter receives a payment that will bring its price up not to levels that would expand the beef industry but to levels that would cushion the inevitable traumas through which it must go- to levels that would cushion the rate of decline that would spell its destruction and ensure that cows were not available to carry this industry, which apparently has a bright longterm future, into that future. 
I ask the Government to examine a deficiency payments scheme because I believe it meets the following criteria: It would be simple to administer, the machinery would not be complicated, it could be instituted relatively quickly and it would be equitable. It would boost growers' returns and it would boost them now while it is needed. It would be paid direct to the producers of the beef and not to the other side of the market. It would be paid to the people who are at present in trouble. It would avoid the prohibitively high cost of storing meat for a long time. I think we have only to look at the experiences of the United Kingdom to make us at least seek an alternative solution to this problem of the high cost of storage. It would preserve the incentive to produce quality in that it would preserve the price differential between the different grades of beef. It would avoid the high risk that would be involved in retaining large numbers of beef cattle on properties during times when they would normally be turned off. This is a very risky exercise. If we pay growers to hold large numbers of cattle back on their properties, and we run into bad seasons, we may regret it. We may come through, but it is very risky. 
I see that the time allotted for this debate is almost exhausted. We support this Bill.I emphasise that the beef industry, above all agricultural industries, needs support at this time. I urge upon the Government consideration of a deficiency payments scheme, among other schemes and among other things, because I believe that it might most closely meet the requirements of the industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I wish to speak, in the main, to the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill, the second of the Bills which are being debated cognately, but at the outset I wish to say a few words about the first Bill, the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill. In particular, I deplore the way in which this whole issue has been used as a political football. The States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill seeks to advance moneys to assist the welfare of Aborigines. These people deserve better than to be treated as a political football or to have the matters which concern them become a matter of political football kicking in a State election campaign. It is a pity that the debate was allowed to degenerate to this level for I feel that when this Government first became the Government its intentions in this area were at least sincere. I think it is a great pity that it has used Aborigines and the welfare of Aborigines to chastise the Queensland Government on a matter that can only be an opinion. 
There are some 80,000 Aborigines in various places throughout Australia- on missions, on pastoral leases, on farms, in rural towns, on State-managed settlements and in cities. They live in varied circumstances. One thing is common to the picture, wherever we look at it, and that is, I am afraid, that it is not a particularly happy picture. They have in the main the same problems that Europeans have, but they have them to a much greater degree. As well, they have problems which are peculiar to them as Aborigines, problems which are not possessed by Europeans. The second Bill, the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill, is aimed at dealing in the main with those problems which are peculiar to Aborigines as Aborigines. 
Firstly, let us look at some of the problems which they share with the European community. Housing is one. They are, in the main, not so well housed as are Europeans- even those Europeans who live in the same areas and otherwise in similar circumstances. Their education does not compare with the education of Europeans, if one measures it by grade against age, by attendance, by the number who drop out or by any way that one wishes. Their health is not so good as the health of Europeans. The Aboriginal population in the area served by the Princess Margaret Hospital in Perth is something like 3.5 per cent of the total population, yet at this children's hospital something like 13 per cent of admittances are Aborigines. Look at crime. In Western Australia the Aboriginal population provides something like 1 1 .5 per cent of all convictions, yet they are only 4 per cent of the adult population. I would suggest that alcohol is a major contributor to the crime rate among these people. I think it is a measure of the fact that they have real problems which are their problems and which are peculiar to the Aboriginal population. It indicates a people who are not coping with society as they find it. 
There are exceptions of course. There are many individual Aborigines who are coping very well and I hope that there will be many more exceptions. The purpose and whole concept of the Bill, which incidentally was a concept of the past Liberal-Country Party Government, is to increase the number of these exceptions so that happily we can one day see a situation where the 2 communities, if they do not become one community, will become equals in all the senses that make one community respect the other. 
When talking about equals it is not uncommon for us to refer to peoples as equal in the sense that they are the same. It is nonsense to talk in this way because people are different, individuals are different, groups are different and of course races are different. It is senseless to use the word 'equality' if by that we mean sameness. Incidentally, any talk of superiority is meaningless. To say that people are not equal, meaning that they are not the same, does not connote that one group is in any way superior to another. Before one can talk of superiority one has to define in what sense one is discussing the subject. One would have to establish a host of criteria, if one tried this pointless exercise, and one would come down with different measures of superiority applying to different peoples which would tell one nothing and be merely confusing. However, it is not uncommon when someone points out the differences between races for him to be accused of advocating an argument of racial superiority. I am not, and such an argument is nonsense. 
It is also quite impossible to go from the general situation in which one may say that one group has an aptitude in a certain respect and another group has an aptitude in another respect and then apply this to individuals because, of course, the groups overlap. However, the society in which we live is essentially a European society and because these people are different they have special problems within it. That is the justification for this Bill and in a sense it is what this Bill is all about. 
Society has an obligation to any disadvantaged group. It has an obligation to help those who cannot help themselves and it inevitably runs into trouble with those who will not. There is a need to toughen up all of our social services legislation to endeavour to control the misuse of the legislation and the misuse of the benefits by those who will not. However, what I have just said does not in any way lessen the obligation for society to weigh in, as it were, on the side of those who cannot. I think that surely we should adopt a common approach where there are common problems affecting Aborigines within the European community. But where there are peculiar problems the governments of this country, both State and Commonwealth, should adopt a peculiar approach. This is the practice in other areas. 
Only recently I advocated in this House that we should adopt a peculiar approach to assist another disadvantaged and quite different group- the beef industry. I mention this only because it is thought by some that the peculiar situation in which the Aboriginal people find themselves should not be recognised. It is not uncommon to recognise the different difficulties of different groups. Minority enterprises and small business investment companies have been set up in the United States for just this purpose. This technique is not dissimilar to the one used in the administration of this Bill to give loans to Aborigines. It is an attempt to help the Aboriginal people to stand on their own feet and to hold their heads high. 
The Australian Labor Party has been adventurous in its policies for Aboriginal people. In fact, it has been over-adventurous, and this has been conceded by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  Unfortunately the Labor Party's policies have had 2 negative results. One negative result has been loose administration and the other, which perhaps partly results from this, is the so-called white backlash, something that has been very adverse to the Aboriginal people, something that has set the cause of Aboriginal affairs back, something that must surely be regarded, on any reasonable assessment, as damaging to what I believe is a common cause of honourable members on both sides of this House. 
In many ways the Aboriginal people, because they have had to live in a European dominated society, have felt beaten when they have been unable to cope with circumstances that were not the circumstances to which they were traditionally accustomed and to which they were perhaps not genetically adapted. As a result, it has been difficult for the Aboriginal to maintain his selfrespect, to fulfil his need to succeed, and he has had to come to rest on handouts. This has been damaging for him, and my main reason for choosing this Bill to speak to is because it is a provider of opportunity rather than of handouts. That is the essence of this Bill and it is what 1 believe must be the essence of our approach to these people and in fact to all disadvantaged people anywhere in the community. It is an extension of the concept of the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968, and I will quote briefly from the second reading speech of the then Minister for Social Services and Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1968 which was introduced at the same time as that Bill. He said that the purpose of the Bill was -  ... to provide an economic basis which will enable Aboriginals to reduce their dependence upon handouts and become more and more self-reliant. 
That is an ideal principle on which to operate and it is an ideal way to approach these problems, in fact all problems of economic dependence and economic disadvantage- to be a provider of opportunity rather than of handout wherever that is possible, and I concede immediately that it will not always be possible. 
The Bill makes a number of changes to that situation, and the first one I shall mention is that which toughens up slightly on the administration. The Bill funds various Aboriginal enterprises, but the enterprises that are likely to qualify for funding have been changed from those that have prospects of becoming successful to those that are likely to become successful. A small change, one might say, but perhaps it is not so small. It means that the moneys will be concentrated more on those likely to succeed. If they undertake to accept this assistance and then fail, great damage will be done to their cause, so perhaps it is not such a small point. Authority has been transferred from the Minister to a commission, which will have 2 Aboriginal members. Again, I think this will help the Aboriginal people to see that they are doing something for themselves. It will enable them to see their own success, to feel part of their own success and, for that reason, it is more likely to succeed. 
The Bill also provides for personal loans for home ownership. I applaud that, and I am sure all honourable members on this side of the House will applaud it. We believe in home ownership. I contrast what the Government is doing in this Bill with the shift in its policy regarding home ownership generally. The Labor Party, for some reason that I have never understood, seems to think that Australians would be better off in rental homes. At least for Aboriginal people the Labor Party has come to recognise the benefits of home ownership and the pride and care that go with it. In the past the Labor Party has said a lot about paternalism and in particular has criticised the paternalism of the missions. I caution now that we do not substitute for this paternalism by government because it would be equally, if not more, damaging for exactly the same reasons. There is a need to decentralise authority and to allow Aboriginals who are on the spot to make decisions about their own affairs for in that way will they best hold their heads high. In fact, my whole argument rests on the point that there is a need for the Aboriginal to feel that he is a part of what he is doing, to feel pride in what he is doing and gradually to build his own self respect. This Bill will help the Aboriginal succeed when judged by, what are admittedly, largely European criteria. But he is to be helped to do it in ways that will be more akin to the traditional Aboriginal ways. Hence this enhances his chances of success. 
What of the rest of the Aboriginal population? What of those who will not be helped by this Bill? After all, this is a very selective measure, and rightly so. It picks out some groups which have possibly the greatest chance of fighting through to the top, of fighting through to success. The home loans will be more general than the assistance provided to business enterprise. In a way the home loans will help Aboriginals to succed on European terms because home ownership and pride in the home are things that the European population values and recognises the worth of in others. The provision of home loans to Aboriginals is one way in which Aboriginals will wear down this white backlash slightly. It will help them to live as Europeans in a European society. 
This Bill will do little for the Aboriginal who wishes to be truly tribal, but I think that perhaps he has the least problem. He is succeeding on his own terms in his own way. The home ownership provisions of the Bill will do something- a littlefor the fringe dwellers. These people represent perhaps the biggest group and face the greatest problems because they are being asked to integrate strictly on European terms. Perhaps there is no alternative to this. It will be a long hard road for these people, and I think that the European community will have to be very understanding. I think that the European community has an obligation to be very understanding and to recognise that because these Aboriginal people are different things will be difficult for them. 
The purpose of the Bill is to help a people move towards an honoured place in a society that will remain dominated by Europeans. The purpose of the Bill is to help the Aboriginal to help himself. The money to be provided under this Bill will not be a gift; it will be a loan. Consequently, it will not be something that saps the Aboriginal's will. The Aboriginal people have something to offer the European people. In spite of anything I can do to assist the Aboriginal people, I am a European and as such I will always think as a European. I will never be able consciously to think as someone else. Martin Luther King said referring to another substantial minority that these people will help towards achieving a society 'where we will come to see that integration is not a problem but an opportunity to participate in the beauty of diversity'. That is a beautiful concept. It is a concept that will help us to value a minority group among the European population. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) What payments have been made to The Prisoner of WarTrust Fund of 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 
To what categories of ex-prisoners of war have payments been made from this Trust Fund. 
What steps are taken by the Trust Fund to ensure that all eligible prisoners of war knew of the Fund. 
Has the Minister knowledge of any other trust funds for the benefit of ex-prisoners of war; if so, what are they. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Labor and Immigration. In reply to a question the Minister for Labor and Immigration said that he could think of a number of industries that would be candidates for the extension of public ownership. People in these industries need to plan their economic future in case the will of the people, as assessed at a referendum, should coincide with the will of the Minister. Which are the industries to which the Minister referred? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill; in fact, the Opposition supports it. The Bill is an extension of the policy propounded by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and an extension of the policy outlined by the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  in his well known Australia Day address on Aboriginal welfare. Under the sub-heading 'Land Off Reserves' he said: 
There are many Aborigines in Commonwealth territories living outside Reserves, some of whom belong to recognisable communities or groups. 
The Government - 
That is, the McMahon Governmentdesires to give them the opportunity of access to specific areas of land to use and develop for economic and social purposes. 
We intend therefore, as opportunity offers, to acquire properties off Reserves for this purpose. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government of the day undertook to provide some $Sm then and further grants of at least $2m in the two following years. It should be noted that the provisions of the present Bill are the same as those proposed 3 years ago except that as time has passed and in the light of experience the $5m that was considered appropriate for the first year has been extended to the present date. The Bill provides for very few things that are different from the original proposals and I will discuss very briefly just four matters. Clause 5 (3) contains a provision which is different from that contained in many Bills that this Government chooses to bring before this House and that is why I mention it. It requires the proposed Commission to report upon ministerial directives. I commend this procedure to the Government as one that it ought to follow in many other matters. 
Clause 8 set out the membership of the Commission. There are to be at least 2 Aborigines on it. I support this concept. I believe that it is important that the Aboriginal people should be involved in making their own decisions and that they should be seen to be involved in their own decisions, and that as a result they will feel that what they are doing is of their own people and of their own culture. They should be made to feel that they can hold their heads high in a community that will inevitably remain dominated by the European population. 
Clauses 19 and 20 are the principal clauses of this Bill and provide grants and guarantees to the Aboriginal communities. The point that the House should perhaps note about these 2 clauses is that they require the Aboriginal groups to live on the lands for which these grants and guarantees are provided. This is an important provision because it ensures that the proposals will not be abused and this provision also ensures that the Aboriginal people will, in fact, be able to develop as Aboriginal people among their own kind and will have some greater influence over the direction in which they will head. It will increase the chances of their retaining a position in which they can feel proud of their own accomplishments and they can see their own accomplishments. A further provision of this Bill is that the land for which the loan or the guarantee is provided can in no way be encumbered. I support this proposal. Many of the people to whom the loans or guarantees will be made will not be people who are sophisticated in the commercial world. However, I think the House should note that it does have the drawback that the land cannot effectively be used as collateral and limits the way in which the land may be developed and the way in which the enterprises on the land may be developed. 
I noted one other thing while researching this Bill. In 1972, the former Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts,  Mr Howson,  said in a second reading speech that the procedures that were to be adopted in a Bill he was putting forward were ironed out in consultation and after discussion with the State Ministers. I think it would be a great thing if this Government were to adopt those procedures of co-operation with the States that were so common, in fact routine, with the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. Like the Aboriginal Land Commission Bill, this Bill provides a further opportunity for Aboriginal communities to acquire land- and it is for that reason that I have chosen to speak on the Bill- so that the Aboriginal population and individual members of it may stand upon their own feet, to do their own thing under circumstances that will not court the so-called white backlash that has been so damaging to the Aboriginal population over the last 18 months. 
Five million dollars is not a lot of money but it is important that it be not wasted. It is important that it is not wasted firstly and obviously because it is taxpayers' money. The taxpayers have the right to expect their money to be used carefully and wisely. It is even more important to the Aboriginal people that the money allocated to them should not be wasted. I should like to quote a few examples from the Auditor-General's report just as a reminder to honourable members of what could happen and what might happen again. I believe that the Government has seen the error of its ways in these matters. I believe that in fact the management of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs will, from here on, be more careful and much tighter. In a submission by the Auditor-General concerning grants made by that Department, he stated: 
Further grants had been made to organisations although they had not complied with the obligations arising out of earlier grants. 
Even after the Department had been warned by the Auditor-General that its affairs were not in order, it chose to carry on. The Auditor-Genertal stated: 
Requests for submission of financial statements were often not specific on the nature of the statements to be submitted or on the time of their submission: follow-up of their submission was inadequate. Further 
Some financial statements submitted contained insufficient information. 
The Auditor-General 's report stated finally: 
Action taken by the Department to ensure that satisfactory accounting and financial and administrative controls were operating within organisations receiving (or to receive) grants was inadequately or unduly delayed. 
One could go on reciting similar quotations from this report but I will not do so because I believe it would be a waste of the time of the House. 
Honourable members have heard these comments before. It is not good enough that a department of this Government should treat the taxpayers' money so carelessly. More importantly, it is not good enough that it should treat the money of the Aboriginal people so carelessly. It is important that these funds be used in a way which will mostly benefit these people who surely need it. 
I am aware of a property in the Northern Territory which was purchased by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs under circumstances with which I am reasonably familiar. I know that the seller of this property received about $800,000 for it. I also happen to know that that was some $300,000 more than he ever expected to receive for the property. In that case the Department was careless with the money of the Aboriginal people. I am also told that so far there are no Aborigines on the property. I should like now to quote from a telegram sent by the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress. The last sentence of that telegram states: 
Widespread dissatisfaction with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs amongst our people. Our views must be taken seriously. 
I am not suggesting that this organisation represents all Aboriginal people and that this Government has not a sincere desire to better the Aboriginal people. What I am suggesting is that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been careless and over-adventurous and, as a result, there has been a serious backlash. There has been a backlash firstly, from the white community and, secondly, from the Aboriginal people themselves. I believe that the Government sincerely intends to take notice of the AuditorGeneral's report because it has serious implications for the Aboriginal people concerned. In supporting this Bill I merely urge the Government to ensure that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs exercises much greater care in the management of its affairs than it has in the past. 
I take it that we are still dealing with the Bills in a cognate debate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government have plans to supply livestock for breeding purposes to developing countries. 
If so, (a) to what countries is it intended to supply livestock, (b) what are the numbers of each breed and sex that will be required and (c) what procedures will be adopted to purchase the animals within Australia. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What grants will Western Australia receive under the  Government's  Area Improvement Program. 
Will these grants be made to country areas as well as metropolitan areas. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. In the light of his answer to an earlier question, does the Minister now agree that the action of the Waterside Workers Federation in preventing a sale of wheat to Chile was a stand-over tactic against one of Australia's trading partners and against Australia's long term trading interests? 
I do not want to take up the time of the House for long. I wish to add one argument to what has already been said. The position of the beef industry is very serious indeed. The $20m appropriation which is proposed in this Bill will help some beef producers. It will even be a lot of help to some beef producers but the unfortunate truth of the matter is that there are too many beef producers who have no income with which to service any borrowings whatever. Beef cannot be sold at a price that will go anywhere near covering the costs of almost any beef producer anywhere and that is the essence of this problem, particularly when it is coupled with the fact that the nation's beef properties are already heavily stocked. It will not be possible to carry increasing numbers of beef cattle on the properties around Australia. If we run into bad seasons the beef industry and the nation could face what could only be described as disaster. For that reason, by some means or other we are going to have to sell beef if we are to overcome this problem. 
There are things that can be done to sell beef. There is no one panacea but there are things that will assist the sale of beef. For example, the livestock slaughter levy can be removed. This will make our beef just that much more competitive on the world markets. The levy should be removed. The cost of killing beef in Australian slaughter yards has risen astronomically with inflation in recent times. This is something that has come about in part because of Government ineptitude. It is the result of Government action. It is an area that the Government could look at very seriously. It could assist in the slaughter of beef and it could justify this action on the grounds that the cost of slaughtering beef and the loss of beef markets to the Australian beef producers and to the nation generally are the results of Government action. 
-I am tired of answering interjections but that one I will answer. There are 2 ways by which the Americans and the Japanese have been stopped from buying our beef and that is one of them. The second is that we are traditional customers in America and in Japan and we have done a lot to make ourselves popular in those countries- I don't think. We have gone around insulting the American President. We have referred to the Americans as murderers. It is not just one thing that will deny us access to their market. I concede that. They buy their beef from a number of sources. Those things do not make Australia very popular. That adds strength to the cattlemen's lobby in the United States. It has made it just that more difficult to sell Australian beef in the United States. The Prime Minister suggested when he was in Japan- or he said he did- that the quotas imposed on Australian beef were not quite proper or not in order, but that did not stop him from slapping quotas on Japanese cars. That argument, if he used it, lost all its strength. Yes, the Government has done a lot to damage Australian beef markets. 
I turn now to things that it might do to undo the damage. I have mentioned the 1.6c livestock slaughter levy. In the present circumstances that could well be taken over again by the public purse. I have mentioned the cost of killing. The beef industry is in this extraordinarily difficult position. These are not ordinary circumstances. 
These are exceptional times. The beef industry could be given assistance to meet its markets. Sell we must if we are to get out of these difficulties. Cold storage can provide but a limited solution. There is mounting evidence that modern cold storage will store beef, and for that matter any other meat or processed food of any type, for 12 to 24 months at a cost that will be within the predicted price rise for the particular product. That is not a solution to the problem but it is one thing that will help. The Government might look at it. It might assist the financing of freezing works. The Government might encourage sales to those few parts of the world that are buying beef. It might give the Meat Board a lot of assistance if it is dinkum about this problem. Most of all it might assist the industry to meet markets at prices that the markets are prepared to pay. 
-Although I hold quite firm views, I had not originally intended to speak to the second reading of this Bill. There has been much debate upon it both in this House and in the Senate and I am sure that every honourable member will be familiar with the arguments that I will use. As a general rule I see little point in repetition. However, such is the public interest in this matter that I have decided that it is proper for me to stand and have my views as well as my vote counted. I support the Bill. I see it, in its present form, as a great improvement on the current situation. I have some reservations but I believe that the Committee stage will provide opportunity to make those changes that are desirable. The amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time' which was moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  calls for the re-drafting of the Bill to give expression to principles with which I could not quarrel. However, every one of those principles, with the exception of a test of 2 years separation in lieu of one year as the evidence of irretrievable breakdown or marriage is, as I see it, embodied in the Bill at present. I support the 2 year period, but I am convinced that if it is the will of the House, the change can quite easily be made in due course. If the Bill is withdrawn for redrafting my belief is that in the present political climate it will not be seen again. I will therefore vote against the amendment to the second reading in spite of my complete sympathy with its sentiments. 
There are 2 distinct aspects of this debate- the debate in Parliament and the debate expressed in letters, petitions and conversation that we have all had with various people. Firstly, there is argument about what is the most desirable legal position. Secondly, there is argument as to whether this Bill does in fact achieve that desired legal position. Much of the acrimony stems from differences of opinion as to just what the immediate effect of the Bill will be upon people in various situations. I am convinced that there is a great deal of needless fear that is the result of misapprehension. The older woman will not be left in a position where she will be told just to get out and fend for herself. Separation where 2 parties live under one roof is recognised by the present law. The Bill does not always make the obtaining of a divorce easier and quicker but actually delays the process in some situations. 
The family is the basic group of our society. I can think of no society of mankind that has endured that does not contain this unit. The family provides essential support for its members, particularly, but not only, the young members. It provides the only proven way of progressing from generation to generation. Nobody has denied this fact and I do not see how anyone could, but its assertion has been used as an argument by opponents of the Bill and by implication I am sure that many people believe that proponents of this legislation have denied this argument. By reasserting the fact of the essential worth of the family I hope to dispose of that red herring. 
Legislation should do what it can to positively support the family and it should, in seeking to be compassionate and just to those leaving the marriage, be very careful of the needs of all families and of other members of that family. The 2 purposes of this legislation are to assist marriage to succeed and to provide a more humane and dignified dissolution of those marriages that are clearly incapable of success. Positive assistance to a successful marriage will be afforded by the Family Court which will endeavour to provide an institution that has specialist knowledge of reconciliation procedures and opportunities. It will have ready access to marriage guidance assistance. It will be informal and is charged under clause 43(d) to have regard to:  . . . .the means available for assisting parties to a marriage to consider reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. 
Every attempt will be made to effect reconciliation with the aid of counselling and no divorce will be granted without consideration of the possibilities of reconciliation. Any married person may seek the assistance of the court's counselling service. In short, it will do what it can to preserve the marriage as a loving entity. 
The formation of an Institute of Family Studies will promote the identification and understanding of the factors affecting marital and family stability. These are positive measures aimed at preserving marriage not just as a legal entity but as a functional unit of society. When this social unit which depends so heavily on affection and respect has broken down and there is no prospect of its repair, I see no value in what has then become the legal pretence of marriage. Most divorcees remarry and very few redivorceIn that the legal marriage prevents the parties making new homes with new partners, the legal shell of an unsuccessful marriage becomes a positive bar to successful marriage. It encourages de facto relationships that do not have the full protection of the law and which must yet run the gauntlet of a social stigma that can be very hard on children in particular. Someone once tritely but wisely remarked that where there is marriage without love there will surely be love without marriage. 
The majority of the clauses of this Bill deal with the procedures by which marriage may be dissolved and with the procedures that will protect the parties' and the children's respective interests. This has led opponents of the Bill to dub it the 'Divorce Bill' and say that it should be so named, in spite of the fact that it deals with matrimonial causes other than divorce. It does not matter very much what title people choose to ascribe to the Bill. It does indeed deal at length with divorce but surely that is because it is very careful to protect the legitimate interests of the people in the greatest variety of circumstances. 
In 1966 the Church of England in England published the paper 'Putting Asunder' in which the Church recommended that irretrievable breakdown should be the only ground for divorce. This simple concept preserves every marriage that is of value or likely to become of value to the parties and the children. At the same time it allows dissolution of those marriages that have become empty shells. The concept does away with the notion of fault as ground for divorce and with the need for further pointless ill-will and deserved or undeserved shame. It is true that the question of fault may rear its ugly head if the custody of children should be disputed or if the present or future division of income or property is disputed. However, most couples manage to agree upon these matters without a court hearing under present laws and I see no reason they should not continue to do so. So for most separating couples all argument involving fault will be unnecessary. 
Whilst the concept of irretrievable breakdown is simple and I have no hesitation in accepting it as the logical ground upon which to grant divorce, the difficulty remains of knowing beyond all reasonable doubt that the parties to a marriage are in fact beyond reconciliation. It is clearly desirable, if at all possible, that breakdown is certainly and simply evidenced. A period of separation is a simple criterion, and the longer the period of separation the more certain it will be. It can only be a matter of judgment as to what length of time will evidence breakdown beyond reasonable doubt. The present law provides a period of 5 years separation as a no-fault ground for divorce. The Bill before the House reduces this period to one year. I favour a 2-year period. I can envisage a situation, albeit uncommon, in which the attitude of one of the partners could change radically a long time after the decision to separate, particularly if the decision was in part the result of an emotional stress such as post-natal depression that has passed. 
I am influenced more, however, by the argument that society should not attempt to make radical changes too quickly. Any change involves the risk of unforeseen difficulty. Any change must be acceptable to the vast majority of the public. I do not mean that it is necessary that nearly all the public favour a particular law, but I do believe that, if at all possible, Parliament should avoid foisting upon any substantial group a situation which the group feels it cannot accept. To do so is to add to social tensions and to weaken respect for all laws. In several years time, when people have found, as I believe they will find, that the Family Law Bill is not only acceptable but also a positive aid to the family, I might favour a shorter period of separation; but in the meantime my approach is gradual and cautious. 
The clearly intended two-fold thrust of this Bill is to support the family and to allow the humane and dignified dissolution of those marriages that have become a burden to the couple, to the children and, I suggest, to society. Many very sincere people are obviously very fearful of the effect of the Bill. They foresee difficulties that will prejudice the family and prejudice an injured party. It has been argued that the tenor of the Bill is such that people will be encouraged to enter marriage lightly in the knowledge that the union can be dissolved. People considering marriage do not, I am sure, give much thought to divorce, whatever the state of the law. If they did, they would note that at present the ground of adultery can be used, and is used by some people, to obtain a prompt dissolution. It no longer will be possible to connive at providing grounds for a dissolution of marriage. 
It has been argued that a woman who has raised a family and in the process has lost her ability to earn a respectable income can be told to get out and fend for herself. This would be a very serious criticism if that were the effect of the Bill. However, this matter was the subject of an amendment by the Senate and the effect of clause 72, when read in conjunction with clause 75, is to protect the older woman. The obligation of one party to support the other is clearly recognised. It has been argued that the absence of an arena in which to establish fault is in some way unjust to a party offended against and that it is wrong for a person who has behaved badly then to be able to petition for a divorce. What is the value of preserving the marriage if it has clearly broken down? What is the value of labelling the offender, unless it be revenge? 
I support this Bill, although I will seek an amendment to clause 48 and some less important amendments. The legislation is humane and it will support the marriage at least at that stage at which it is running into difficulty but no irrevocable decisions have been taken. I believe that it is practical and it is just. 
-This clause relates to the previous clause. The effect of this Bill upon the community will depend, more than most Acts- when this Bill becomes an Act- upon its ability to influence the community and upon its acceptance by the community. If as a result of adopting too hard a clause where it is too easy to effect legal remedy injustice is done only in a few cases the Act itself will be brought into disrespect. The backlash will be considerable. In fact, we may reach the position where it does more harm than good. It depends overwhelmingly for its beneficial effects upon its acceptance. It is an educative piece of legislation. For that reason I urge the Government to consider the course which the Opposition has proposed under which it will not be so easy to obtain a remedy. There will be less risk that an unwitting injustice is done. 
-The Technical and Further Education Commission was envisaged by the Kangan Committee. It will place the recipients of technical education and further education on an equal footing or near equal footing with the other arms of tertiary education. There are approximately 500 000 such students and in money terms they receive roughly one-fifth as much as a student at a college of advanced education. I am not suggesting that the value of education can be measured in money terms but merely adding a little emphasis to the oft made claim that this is a Cinderella group. The role of the Technical and Further Education Commission should be that of an advisory body and an encouraging body. I do not see its proper role as that of dictating in detail to the hopefully various diverse institutions that will provide this educational facility. It should be advisory to the Commonwealth, the States and the private institutions. It should deal in priorities in that it should define them and advise the States on what it believes would be proper priorities. But it should advise the States and it should not impose these priorities upon the States. It should set standards in that these are a useful discipline. They provide definition. They let various organisations know where they stand in relation to other organisations. But I state again that it should not impose standards. If it does so the community will be that much the poorer by the lack of diversity and opportunity for its individual members. 
The Commission should assist in the transfer of pupils between States and between systems. It should make it possible or should provide advice to make it possible for there to be a sufficient common stream so that a student who transfers from one system to another will have the opportunity, and those who will teach him will have the opportunity, of matching what he has learnt to what he will learn. The Commission should be an encouraging body in that it will balance the lobbies that must inevitably compete for funds, teachers and facilities generally between the various arms of tertiary education. It should not attempt to deal in detail. The States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill clearly did deal in detail. Therefore, I have a suspicion that this Commission will inevitably deal in detail that will not benefit technical and further education in Australia. The States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill provided for minor building projects. It defined a minor building project as anything costing over $2,000 up to a major building project. It clearly envisaged the imposition of considerable detail- minute detail- upon the various State authorities. The Technical and Further Education Commission will be dealing in this detail so long as funds are provided in this detail. It is my firm belief that if it tries to impose that sort of detail we will get a common- not necessarily efficient- restrictive educational system. 
The present situation envisages 6 different State systems, four of them under the umbrella of the State education departments and in New South Wales and South Australia systems that are not under the umbrella of the State education departments. The Commission will need to be flexible enough to deal with such diversity and to preserve that diversity as the States and the people in those States would wish to conduct their own affairs. In paragraph 5.1 on page 200 of its report the Kangan Committee speaks of the status of the Commission. It clearly sees a commission that is not unduly centralised. It states: 5.1 The constitutional responsibility for technical and further education in the States rests with the State Governments and so also does the financial commitment. The Committee considers that action to centralise further the control of TAFE would be unrealistic and should be avoided. The structure of the Commission should facilitate consultation with and among the States- we believe that this consultation will be made easier, more obvious and more rapid if those States are directly represented on the Commission; hence the amendments we have foreshadowed. 
Clause 6 (1) (b) and (c) mentions standards and needs. It is not clear to me just what is meant by needs. I can see how the Commission would seek to set standards and that these would be arbitrary decisions made by the Commission that will be guidelines for people who deal with the Commission. But when the clause mentions needs I think we come to an area that has become completely meaningless. One cannot say that something is needed. One sanctifies a demand merely by using the word 'need'. There is no end to what might be provided to improve education. We can set arbitrary standards and we should set arbitrary standards, but when we speak of them as needs we run the risk of denying ourselves the opportunity of looking at a project against the calls of other sections of the community. By using that word we sanctify the proposal so that the community will demand that it be serviced over and above all other wishes and desires of the community. In the end this leads to waste because we cannot look at any item of expenditure but in relation to other items of expenditure. 
Finally, I urge those who will be dealing with technical and further education to be very careful not to do anything that might in any way damage the morale of the organisations we have now, for poor as they have been they have a morale that is not evident in all areas of education. If one visits an institution providing technical education one will find that those teaching and those learning are very enthusiastic about what they are doing. I have the fear that if we impose a centralistic control upon these people they will lose some of this enthusiasm and that pupils and the community will be the poorer for it. 
-The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  started his speech by tilting at windmills inasmuch as he set up sundry policies which the Liberal and Country parties have never advocated and then spent much of his speech in trying to knock them down. Then he berated us for having a policy to deal with the current economic crisis. It is time that the Government had a policy to deal with the country's economic crisis. 
I wish to discuss just one effect of the way in which the appropriations that are before us will be spent. The Whitlam Government is committed to the ultimate development of one strong government for the whole of the Commonwealth, based in Canberra and having ultimate authority over all things for all Australians. It is committed to a unitary system of government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when delivering the 1957 Chifley Memorial Lecture made the position very clear when he said that the role of Labor members of State parliaments is to try to bring about the dissolution of State parliaments. That is not an inherently unreasonable standpoint, although it is not mine. My fear is that Australia is heading for the day when it has, in effect, a unitary government operating within a warped and inappropriate- or no longer appropriate- framework of a federation. There is no doubt that a unitary system of government can be made to work. In fact, most countries of the world have such a system. I think that such a system is more likely to work well in countries in which the population is concentrated, such as in Great Britain, although even there both Welsh and Scottish nationalism is, after hundreds of years, still a bone of contention. Whilst I do not believe it would be in the best interests of Australia and whilst I do not believe that most Australians want it, I have no doubt that it could be made to function quite well, particularly for those people in the south eastern corner of the continent. What I doubt is the wisdom of developing a situation in which a federation is controlled by its national government where that control is through the purse strings. 
In Australia the major taxing powers rest with the Commonwealth. Moneys flow to the centre and at the same time effective powers flow from the centre. In order to understand how this occurs it is convenient to imagine oneself in the position of being the recipient of a grant. Some moneys are paid to States and local authorities as general grants. In other words, they have no strings attached and no harm is done. But, because an increasing proportion of the money is paid in specific grants, that is, for a specific purpose, as members of a recipient body we must decide whether we will use the money according to the choice of the donor body or whether we will have nothing to spend. So we accept the grant. The essential choice between projects has been made by the arm of government with the money. It is said: 'Ah, but the categories of expenditure are very broad; you have choice within the category'. The categories are not nearly so broad as they used to be and the Minister in Canberra often retains a power of veto, a power which in practice is exercised by his officers. So the choice of the recipient of the grant is narrowed even further. But still money for expenditure on an umpteenth choice is better than no money at all, so the grant is accepted. 
The Regional Employment Development scheme is an excellent example of the way in which those effects are felt. Large sums of money are available to shire councils and other bodies for expenditure on projects chosen by the Minister from a submitted list. Shires submit projects for approval because they have nothing to lose. As far as they are concerned, their responsibility is to their local citizens. Money spent in their area, even if it is on the most wasteful project, is better than money being spent in another area. After all, their citizens are going to share in the payment of taxes to the Commonwealth Treasury. Instead of the local people deciding their priorities, Big Brother has made most of the decisions for them and, because of his inevitable lack of local knowledge, usually he has made them badly. 
The Minister.for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has often claimed the support of all members of Parliament for the RED scheme because all members have supported individual projects. Members of Parliament feel a responsibility to their electorates and they claim for their electorate whatever portion of the handouts they can get their hands on. That does not mean that they believe that a handout is the best way in which to engender responsibility or initiative in shires or in individuals or that the money is going to the ideal projects. Matching money financing is, if anything, even worse than specific grants because in such cases no one assesses individual projects against their total cost. 
The power of the Commonwealth to make specific purpose grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution and the States' unbridled power to make specific grants to shires has resulted in a steady flow of power to the centre. Admittedly, the process started long before the Australian Labor Party came to power in Canberra. The dealings of States of all political colours with their shires is a very close parallel to the Commonwealth's dealings with those same States. However, the Labor Party, by greatly speeding up the process, has emphasised what is happening, and  may thus have done Australia a service. 
Any choice for unitary government should be a conscious choice and the Constitution amended accordingly. If the Labor Party believes that that is what Australians really want, it should then draft amendments to the Constitution and put them to the people. If we continue to unify by the back door we will end up with an uncertain legal position and with a tortuous and inefficient administrative chain still involving what will have become a powerless and embittered State organisation. If the present Commonwealth Government seeks to unify all governments in Australia it should continue to say so. The Prime Minister has said again, as he has said in the past, that that is so. He should not pretend, as did the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in the debate on the Technical and Further Education Commission, that money can be granted for a narrow, specific purpose without some measure of control being exercised. 
-The choice between a period of separation of 24 months and one of 12 months in the end can be only a matter of judgment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was quite wrong when he suggested that the only reason for proposing the longer period was the few marriages which might be rescued in the second 12 months. In fact, there is another reason and it is a much more important reason. The law itself must be acceptable not just to the majority of the community but to the vast majority of the community. If it is not, the law will suffer from a backlash that will lead the law into difficulties. To a minor extent, such a situation will reflect upon all law. It is for this reason that, for the time being at least, I believe that we should settle for the longer period. It can be reviewed in some years' time. Then, if the law is proceeding well, we may well opt for the 12 months period. 
I wish to speak to paragraph (c) of the new sub-clause 2 proposed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  It reads:  having regard to the behaviour of the parties, the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably. 
I concede that I was at first strongly attracted to this proposition. However, when I weigh its benefits against its costs I come down against it. I have no doubt that I would support the proposition if, as has been suggested, a party to the marriage would have to live in intolerable circumstances. However, I do not believe that that is the case. The injunctive powers assure to either party to the marriage relief that is in all circumstances similar to the relief that he or she would obtain from a divorce except that the parties will have the assistance of the guidance provisions of the Bill and that they cannot remarry. The only way in which these injunctive powers might be in any way weaker than a divorce is related to the state of mind of either party, namely that it might be just a little more difficult to enforce an injunction if the party whom the courts have ruled against feels that he has some fundamental right. He may insist on turning up at a household where he has been denied entry. But, in fact, he has no legal right there and can by law be thrown out. He could, of course, turn up at the household after the divorce. 
Against this small weight in favour of the granting of immediate relief by divorce we must weigh the fact that we are introducing this ground of fault inevitably, that it will be taken before the courts by people seeking a quicker divorce. However the courts rule, it will not stop people taking forward cases claiming that the other party has acted in an intolerable manner, accusing the other party to the marriage of all and sundry offences. This sort of action could result in the sort of dirty procedures that we have tried to avoid. For that reason, on balance- but strongly on balance- I have come down against reintroducing any ground that refers to behaviour or fault. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Did he return to Australia so that he would be able to pursue Budget preparations vigorously and adequately? 
-The States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill which is before the House will provide assistance to an industry which is in sore trouble, but it will not provide prompt action, as the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  suggested. The honourable member speaks of difficulties starting to show up. I wonder when he expects to see difficulties that have really shown up. The beef industry faces prices it has not seen in a very long time. In real terms those prices are lower than any in memory. In Western Australia the price has halved in the last 12 months. In every other State the situation is worse than that. I telephoned a number of the major markets and received the following answers to my requests for going prices: Newmarket, 38c a kilo; Homebush, 31c; Cannon Hill, 29c; Gepps Cross, 33c; and so on. Store beef prices are even worse. The price for good store cows are: Clermont, $26; Wagga, $25; Wangaratta, $31; and so on. There is no profit in those prices; and the Government should not need to be told that there is no profit in those prices. 
Many producers are in extreme difficulty. Those who have the bulk of their income coming from beef- they are beef specialists- are in so much difficulty that under the present circumstances they will not survive. In the eastern States prices are one-third of what they were in 1973. A Bureau of Agricultural Economics occasional paper gives us an index of the money which is left to a beef producer to pay for his family to live, to service his debt, to replace capital equipment which is worn out and for any expansion. In 1973-74 in New South Wales, if the index were 229 it would now be 94. The position is similar in every other State except in the Northern Territory where the index would be negative. A Northern Territory beef producer would have dropped from 139 to the point of where he is showing a loss. Those are average figures. That is not the extreme case. That is not even the beef specialist. They are the average figures for the residual spending power of people who own beef cattle. The figures take into account the money those people earn from other sources. The paper demonstrates that beef cattle are not only not providing their owners with a going living, but they are as well undermining the other resources of various rural enterprises. 
These people are not crying wolf. I have mentioned all this to demonstrate that the industry is in extraordinary difficulties. Quite often we have had thrown at us the suggestion: 'You people recommend acceptance of the market forces. Why do you now support a measure for assistance to an industry which has been affected by market forces?' The answer is that the industry has been affected by market forces and bad government. I make the point that these circumstances are in no way ordinary. There is very good reason for this assistance to this industry in this measure, and for other assistance in greater measure. For that matter, there is good reason for this assistance in greater measure. Of course, the Government has some obligation to any people anywhere in Australia on welfare grounds to see that they and those who depend on them do not suffer too greatly because of market crises or through circumstances which are no fault of their own. The people directly involved in this industry are not assisted by the National Employment and Training Scheme, the Regional Employment Development scheme or by unemployment benefits although some of the people who are out of work because of the decline in this industry are so assisted. A great many people are out of work because of the decline in this industry. 
Australia will need the beef industry again. We are given to understand by such expert advice as we can get that we can expect a lift in world market prices within 2 years, but I am well aware that these predictions are of doubtful reliability. On the other hand, they are the very best that we have to go on. We need this industry to continue. We need the herds to be available when we are able to develop a market for Australian beef overseas. 
The beef industry receives very little assistance from the Australian taxpayer or from the Australian consumer. It contributes a great deal through its added costs to the assistance of other 
Australian industries and to Australians outside the industry. I am speaking in the main of the cost that it bears because of the burden of the tariff and the way in which that has forced up the costs of this industry. One calculation- and it gives a rough measure of the order of the burden that this industry bears- would suggest that the meat industry overall contributes some $192m annually to the support of other industries through these added costs and receives approximately $27m in government and public support. I have not been able to obtain figures that are specific to the beef section of the meat industry. The figures that I have just cited were calculated before the superphosphate bounty was removed and a levy of lc a pound was imposed on export meats. People in the industry are not receiving much and they are providing a great deal. 
The Green Paper spoke of the benefits of counter-cyclic assistance to the industry and how this had an advantage in that it allocated resources more efficiently than they are now allocated. This proposal before the House is an example of counter-cyclic assistance. This industry can put forward an exceptionally strong case for succour. During the term of this Government it has lost the benefit of the superphosphate bounty and an additional lc a pound charge has been, put on export killings. The 1.6c a pound imposed as a charge on meat slaughter, incidentally, amounts roughly to 10 per cent of gross receipts. But consider the effect that this can have on net receipts for the producer who is now breaking even with his cattle. If this 1.6c a pound levy were to be removed, he would make a substantial profit; that is, a 10 per cent profit. If he were showing a loss, the removal of this levy could bring his operations to an even balance. The levy makes an enormous difference to his profit or loss situation and this is one area where the Government ought to act to assist the industry in the short term. 
Inflation has driven producers' costs up in a way that no one imagined would be possible a short 2 years ago. Not a great deal of time is left to me as I have agreed to cut my speech to 10 minutes so that other speakers may participate in the debate. Finally, I would give one example of the cost burden that the Australian beef producer carries, which is not carried in other countries of the world. A  Mr Robert  Murray writing in the 'Australian Financial Review' compared the $23 a head that it costs to slaughter beef cattle in Australia with the cost of a mere $3.50 a head to slaughter beef cattle in Japan. It is very difficult for Australian beef producers to compete on world markets. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Vietnamese refugees have applied to come to Australia since Saigon fell to the Communists. 
What skills have these applicants to offer Australia. 
How many applicants have relatives, by blood or marriage, presently within Australia. 
What faculties are available to facilitate application. 
What indication have potential applicants been given of Australian willingness to accept some refugees. 
Has the entry of any refugees been approved; if so, how many. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) By what date is the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty required to report. 
Will the report be tabled as soon as practicable in the Parliament 
What would be the equivalents of the endowment, pensions and assistance that would have the same purchasing power today as the recommendations based on the value of the Australian Dollar at August 1 973 in the Commission 's Interim Report. 
What steps has the Government taken to implement the recommendations of the Interim Report. 
Which recommendations are as yet not fully implemented. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many applications has he received for assistance under the NEAT scheme in each State. 
How many applications have been approved in each State. 
What are the criteria that determine acceptance or rejection of an application. 
What types of application are decided at (a) State and (b) Federal level. 
What is the normal time lapse between lodgement of application and rejection or approval. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it true that only 4 members of the 27-man Ministry met representatives of primary industry for pre-Budget discussions and that one of those members could not or would not spare the time to sit through those discussions? Is it true that the 3 Ministers who sat through the discussions were the Minister for Environment, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Of the moneys appropriated to the States by the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act, (a) what moneys have been actually paid to the States, (b) what moneys have actually been spent in technical and further education institutions, (c) in which institutions, and in what amounts, has it been spent, (d) what moneys allocated for 1974-75 remain to be paid to each State and (e) what moneys have been paid to the States but, for one reason or another, have not been spent directly in technical and further education institutions. 
If any moneys have been retained by the States for administrative or other purposes, for what purposes, and in what amounts, has it been retained. 
-Much has been said in this debate about the plight of the country and about the incompetence of the Government. I want to say a little about how we come to be in this position and about the people who have suffered as a result thereof. There has been a great shift in the Australian Labor Party's thinking. I want to speak about the people it has sold out, the people it has abandoned. There was a time, not so many years ago, when the Labor movement in Australia saw itself as the champion of the underdog and the protector of the underprivileged. Consciously, or perhaps unconsciously, it has abandoned that traditional ideal, which had been an essential part of the movement since its inception in, I believe, 1891. 
Why has that happened? 1 think the change came with the present leadership. The Australian Labor Party of  Dr Evatt  and  Mr Calwell  was not an electoral success. Somebody- perhaps it was the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)realised  that votes were to be won and lost at the centre. He realised that the poor were too few in number and were not, as Professor Henderson has pointed out, very politically conscious. I suspect that a very high proportion of those who do not vote are among the truly underprivileged in our society. It is probable that few of the swinging voters are to be found among those people. They have problems enough, without trying to study new political policy or philosphy. They either vote as they have always voted or else do not vote at all. 
The new hierarchy of the Labor Party decided to concentrate on wooing the middle ground. It concentrated on the suburban middle class. The change would have been quite natural to the present Prime Minister. After all, he does not come from the working class. He has a profession. He is a lawyer. He has lived most of his life- his adult life, anyway- in Canberra, which is a city without industry and the wealthiest of Australian communities. He has much in common with the civil service, but not much with the Labor movement and nothing at all with the underprivileged. The Australian Labor Party's ploy worked very well. It was elected to office twice by the additional votes gained from the relatively well to do. The Labor Party's courtship of the middle ground was simple. It offered handouts to everybody, not just to the needy but to the needy and the greedy alike. It sought election with a series of policies promising government support for everything. Additional help was promised to enough favourite policies and projects to secure election to office. 
The policies to attract the middle class were then put to work with 2 disastrous results. They sapped the initiative of the strong, thus badly damaging the economy to the great cost of its weakest members, and meanwhile very nearly ignored the needy. The greater the number who receive aid, the less there is for those who really do need to receive assistance. Will the Government ever learn that the basic element of poverty is inadequate income and that the income that is available to the poor must of necessity be determined by the size of the economic cake and how the slices are cut and distributed? Governments create very little wealth. AU that governments do is redistribute the wealth that other people create. The government can make me wealthy or it can make someone else wealthy, but it cannot make both of us wealthy unless we produce enough for both of us. 
Let us look first at the size of that cake. Last year real growth was negative. The cake got smaller- about 2 per cent smaller- but the population did not stop growing. It rose by 1.3 per cent. So there was less to be divided among more. The average annual increase in gross domestic product over the last 10 years was 4.35 per cent- that is, plus 4.35 per cent. Last year gross domestic product declined by 1.81 per cent- that is, minus 1.81 per cent. Last year was the only negative year of the decade. Collectively we are poor, but we are not equally poor. Where is that socialist dream of the egalitarian society? The Labor movement of other times did not seem to care much if we were aU poor so long as we were equally poor, but now we are not only less wealthy, we are less equal. For the statistically minded, the mean is lower and the distribution wider. 
By providing handouts for everybody the Government has sapped the will to produce. By taxing the pants off people it has sapped the will to produce. By encouraging pace-setting wage rises for the well-to-do it has encouraged inflation. Inflation and the transfer of resources to the public sector have injured industry and raised unemployment to the highest level since the 1930s depression. The Government's policies of handouts for the wealthy have meant fewer jobs for some people. Who are these unemployed? Of 150 000 males unemployed at 30 June, 90 000 were classified as unskilled or semi-skilled. Unemployment catches a few fat cats, but with a negligible number of exceptions one can say that those people who are genuinely out of work always were society's weaker members and now they are even worse off than they were before. 
By overtaxing Australians to provide public services for people who could well afford to pay for these services themselves the Government has thrown other Australians out of work. How are these taxes and the deficits- in effect another form of tax- being spent? They are not being spent on the needy. The Government has set up organisations Uke the Australian Assistance Plan which so far at least has been an organisation for the benefit of itself. It has spent $1.4m on administration and so far has disbursed a little over $3m.  Mrs Marie  Coleman correctly pointed out in a letter to the  Age  that the Plan had become a tool of the middle class. I am told that it has been used as a convenient campaigning technique by at least one Australian Labor Party candidate. That is not what we were led to believe the Plan was aU about. Who are the needy? Certainly the poor must be counted among them. The McMahon Government set up the inquiry under Professor Henderson to investigate and report. The Whitlam Government made a great show of widening the membership of the commission and its terms of reference. Perhaps it did improve the inquiry. I am not sure. But it largely ignored the findings. Only two to the 12 recommendations of the interim report have been accepted in full by the Government in spite of fortunes spent in other areas. 
I am not saying that the Government should spend more. It should spend a great deal less on Government aid to people but it should concentrate that expenditure on those who need it. They are the weak of our society- the unskilled, the migrants, the big families, the Aborigines, the ill and the injured. The unskilled are without work and without hope. This Government set up a much ballyhooed scheme to train people, but only some people were chosen and they were not the needy. At one stage the wife of a Commonwealth public servant could receive training and very substantial financial support while a man who had a family to support could be rejected for retraining- and many were rejected. When the money ran short, around 6 December last year, married women were excluded whether or not their spouses were employed. Where is the sense of it? 
What of families, particularly poor big families? What happened to Professor Henderson's recommendations for child endowment? Why does the Government opt for a system of rebates that will remove the obligation on all low income earners to pay tax? How many of those with a taxable income below $2,000 are sole breadwinners? How many are earning a second family income? How many are children employed part time- possibly in the family business? How many are single, living in groups, odd-jobbing and surfing? Is it sense to exempt these single people from tax obligations at a time when the family breadwinner with a spouse and 2 children who is earning $135 a week which will be inflated to $ 1 63 by the end of the year which will result in an additional $490 tax payment- nearly doubling his tax- is being slugged? Even in constant dollars there is an increase to the extent of $363 in today's dollar value. There cannot be a more honest calculation than that. This money would be ripped off those people to provide child minding centres in upper middle class suburbs. Why? The Government intends to persist with this type of public sector expansion at a time when the private sector has excess capacity. On the Government's own estimate, aggregate employment is to rise by only 1 per cent in the coming year. One per cent growth in employment is less than the annual growth of the work force which is around 1 1/2 per cent. In other words, the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  expects unemployment to rise from its present levels by another half per cent- another 30 000 people. 
The sick are often needy but not all the sick need financial help. Medibank replaces a system of hospital care that once discriminated in favour of the poor. Probably the only people who will benefit from Medibank will be some administrators and some doctors who will get far more money for any given amount of work than they do at present. All patients are likely to be worse off. Why is the Australian Labor Party adopting a policy that removes the advantages of the financially needy? 
The Prime Minister is essentially middle upper class. He has lived his life in Canberra in academic circles. He knows nothing about trade unionism, poverty or the disadvantaged- nor could he care less. He is interested in power and in academic niceties. In fact, he is the Labor Party's latin master. The only latin that I remember is 'et tu, Brute' which I think I last heard on the lips of ex-Speaker Cope as he left the chair. Why in the name of academic, dogmatic socialism are the underprivileged sold out? It does not matter to the Prime Minister whether welfare policies work so long as all power is in his hands. He does not believe that any man but himself is competent to make decisions about his own destiny.  His  academic conceit has blinded him to most of the traditions of the Labor movement. I support the amendment to the motion. 
-In speaking of the facts given this morning and the unkind suggestion made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  that the proposition put by honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  was stupid, I point out that those employment statistic gathering methods were the same methods which provided a lower level -&gt;( unemployment for previous governments. However much the Minister condemns the statistical methods, and I will come to that in a moment, he cannot in any way reflect on the change that those statistical methods produce. They are the same methods. The fact is that unemployment has gone through the roof. This morning I think the Minister said something he did not intend, and at the time I wrote down what he said. He referred to the current circumstances that rendered those employment statistics inadequate and he blamed the previous Government for not foreseeing those circumstances. The change in circumstances is the unparalleled levels of unemployment that his Government has thrust upon this country. So much for that. 
I wish to speak briefly about a matter that has been concerning me for some time. One of the most difficult problems of any country is the problem of catering adequately and fairly for its minority population. Australia 's problem is no less than that of most other countries. I think that we have been perhaps less successful than most. In spite of continued efforts, our Aboriginal population is in a worse condition today than it has ever been. The difficulties appear to be more intractable. I wish the House to consider what is a relatively minor change of attitude that I hope might bring about some improvement. Quite a lot of initiative has been taken at the broad policy level, and at the International Labour Organisation convention level. We have dealt with basic principles. We have talked of things such as fundamental equality, which has resulted in equal pay and in liquor rights, things which have had some benefits and some costs. We have a National Aboriginal Consultative Committee dealing at the top level, and that is good. We have representation in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, in royal commissions and so on. 
All those things are good, and I am not condemning them. What I am saying is that they are not tackling the root problem, the problem that is close to the Aboriginals on the farms, in the country towns and around the fringes of the city- the problem of the man who must come to respect himself, to stand up and see that he is counted as an individual. After all, no one can do that for him. We have accepted the principle of positive discrimination in favour of these people, and I applaud that. We have laid down certain rules governing that positive discriminationbroad rules, the rule of law in general. As a rule there would be no firmer defender of the rule of law than I would be. However, I think here we may have a case for considering an exception and substituting in fact more of the rule of man. In this area of positive discrimination alone it is necessary not only that these people feel that they are being fairly treated but also it is essential that they succeed in what they are doing. 
It is no favour to the Aboriginal people or for that matter to any disadvantaged group to have responsibility thrust upon them that they do not successfully carry. Therefore I am suggesting that those people administering the funds and the projects nearest to where they are taking place be given a great deal more flexibility. I am aware of the costs. Inevitably there will be some inequities. There will be some mismanagement and some misuse of power. That always happens when the rule of man is substituted for the rule of law. On the other hand this will give the opportunity to those people who are on site and who are in contact with these people whom we are trying to advantage to make decisions that are conditioned by real local knowledge and therefore give those people who are involved in the projects a greater chance of actually fighting through to the top. This will be called paternalism. In a way it is. There are costs in paternalism. If one does not give responsibility people do not learn responsibility. I am well aware of that, but if people are given a responsibility that cannot be carried, they do not learn responsibility either. Responsibility has to be given in such measure that it can be managed. 
We are not going too well in this area. I should like to see a limited area of responsibility pushed to the more senior administrators and then to the more junior administrators and on down the line so that they can control the funding of Aboriginal projects and the management of Aboriginal projects. Many of these people exercising this control I hope would be Aborigines and, as the time went on, more would be Aborigines. Instead of having one broad rule or a series of broad rules covering a situation that is just far too diverse to be encompassed by broad rules, we would have decisions taken locally and we would accept the inequities that would result between areas and between projects and trade that off against a greater chance of success within individual projects. Above all else these people need to succeed. It would be worth some costs in other matters to give them a greater chance of success. 
One group in my own electorate runs a fairly exclusive old boys Aboriginal club. It is fairly restrictive in regard to those Aborigines who can take part in the enterprise. Frankly I welcome this. It needs to succeed. The group should not take on any additional hazards. I urge this minor change of attitude upon the Government and in fact upon all people who deal with Aborigines and with any weak minority groups within the community, because success is so important to those groups. 
-When the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  speaks of the underprivileged in education he should remember who are the underprivileged in this community. He should ponder what his Party in government has done to the underprivileged and to spread assistance between the most privileged and the least privileged in this community. Too much of education is being judged by the sum of money that is spent upon it. This is the case certainly on the part of the Government, this Parliament and the community at large. 
The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  in Budget Paper No.  %-Education  1975-76- speaks of quadrupling expenditure on education in 2 years. I believe that that claim was intended to be a boast. In actual fact, in real terms, although expenditure on education was not quadrupled, it rose far too fast. The system could not expand at that rate. Wastage was enormous. The people and children of Australia as a result got poor value for what was spent on them. 
The honourable member for Holt suggested that there were no cutbacks. Of course there were cutbacks, and they were real cutbacks. I am not suggesting that there ought not to have been cutbacks. The fact is that there were cutbacks overall, in every area with the exception of technical and further education. These cutbacks became necessary because of the rate of expenditure and the forced rate of increase that the Government had tried to impose upon the system. Incidentally, the expenditure of this Government should not be taken as the total expenditure upon education in Australia. If we look at the education vote, we find for instance that the amount spent on government schools in the States has risen from a nominal $288m to $299.7m, which is an increase of 4. 1 per cent. If we allow a proportion of the $70m, as the inflation component, we get a nominal increase of 9.1 per cent. This is, nonetheless, a real cutback. We might as well in this time of galloping inflation discuss education and all other aspects in real terms; otherwise, the discussion becomes meaningless. 
The fact is that to strike a Budget the Government elected for other options. It elected to introduce Medibank. In doing so, it had to reduce not only the rate of increase of expenditure in the area of education but also its rate of expenditure. There is no way that expenditure on education could continue to increase at the earlier rate, given the other options that the Government chose in its Budget strategy. It is, I think, probably quite proper that there should be a reduction, certainly in the rate of increase in commitments; but to talk of no cuts is so much rot. 
In the process the Government decided that we would go one year without implementing the findings of the Schools Commission. So, for one year, education planning is in limbo. The trienniums have been abandoned. For one year the commissioners do not know, so far, what they are to do with their reports. The schools and education authorities have no way of knowing how they can plan where they are going. Surely it was not necessary in reducing the rate of expenditure on education to abandon the whole planning structure? 
What I want to discuss is the role of the commissions and how those bodies should be regarded in the future. Certainly the commissions have been established in the public mind and no doubt in the mind of the Government as advisory bodies. The decisions will be taken by Cabinet, by the Government, in due course. The function that is special to a commission is, surely, that it offers public advice not only to the Commonwealth Government but also to the community, to the other governments which still have the major role in education in Australia, to the educationists and to the children, and the parents even. 
Those commissions should not be asked to put forward proposals that the public will expect will be the last word in education spending. In fact, in no way are they competent to draw priorities between areas of education- for instance, the Schools Commission is not able to draw priorities that will bind the Government in the amount of money that will be allocated to schools as opposed to the amount available for tertiary education in universities- let alone to influence the proportion of the total Budget which goes to education in relation to the proportion of the total Budget that is available for expenditure on defence or in other areas. 
I believe that it will be necessary in the years to come for the commissions to have some guidelines as to what expenditure the Government is proposing. It will be necessary that they introduce reports that rank priorities so that they can still order the priority of expenditure within their own fields of competence but which will not be regarded as setting a level of education expenditure that is to be binding on anyone. That decision can be made only by Cabinet. It must draw the line across these priorities at some point. Cabinet will still retain the authority to change those priorities. The special function of the commissions is that they will have made their advice within the areas of their competence to the Government and the Government will be answerable to those people in the community who are concerned with education in relation to any altering of those priorities. What the commissions are not competent to do is to order the level of priorities in relation to other areas of Government expenditure. 
The situation that we have now is a situation in which the commissions, I am advised, do not know what they are expected to do with the reports that they have brought down. Are they merely to update them to take account of inflation? Are they to accept the fact that there has been, perhaps of necessity, a long term reduction in the rate of education expenditure? Are they to bring in reports that advise the public and the Government at what level those reductions are to occur? How are the schools affected by the decisions of these commissions to know at what level they can expect to spend? How are they to know when they can expect to have funds available? I contend that it was not necessary to abandon triennial planning in order to reduce the level of Government expenditure on education. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the annual cost of (a) the Schools Commission, (b) the Universities Commission, (c) the Commission on Advanced Education, (d) the Technical and Further Education Commission and (e) the Council for the Curriculum Development Centre. 
What is the total cost of education administration borne by the Australian Government. 
-The issue I raise this evening is simply a matter of good manners. The decision to disband the cadet corps has annoyed a lot of people in the Australian community. It has annoyed particularly the boys that form these cadet units. A few of these boys in Western Australia saw fit to endeavour to put their case both to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  and to the public. They contacted the Minister, they contacted the media and, of course, because they were holding a demonstration and the law in Western Australia requires it, they contacted the police. A lot of silly things have been said such as: 'How did the police know?' Of course the police knew about the demonstration because the boys told the police before the event, as the law requires, that they were going to hold the demonstration. 
I wish to discuss the Minister's attitude to these boys when they called upon him. The matter received some publicity in the papers under headlines like: 'Morrison canes cadet protestors' and 'Morrison gives cadets a dressing down.' In the first place the Minister is reported as having been some 7 minutes late for the appointment. I have some sympathy with Ministers and I realise they are under a lot of pressure. But they also have staff. Someone could have seen the boys on time and explained why the Minister was unable to turn up for what was, after all, his first appointment of the morning. Secondly, these boys were dressed down for wearing their uniforms. Surely this is an unnecessary discourtesy to a group of boys who were appealing to a Minister of the Crown. There is an awful difference of status. It is surely unnecessary for a Minister of the Crown to dress boys down for wearing their uniform- an act incidentally that they regarded as a mark of respect. While he was talking to these boys the Minister got up and walked out. The Minister has had plenty of time to deny these charges. In fact he had plenty of opportunity that day. The fact is that that conduct was the height of bad manners. These boys were entitled to be heard but above all surely ordinary gentlemanly manners would expect that this Minister of the Crown would hear these boys out. 
I suggest that what went wrong was that the Minister was piqued. He had been on a tour of inspection throughout quite a portion of Western Australia viewing various defence installations. Because of the cadet training issue these boys had stolen his media space. He was annoyed about it. I cannot know this for sure but that is probably the kindest interpretation to place upon the matter. The net result was that in speaking to the media afterwards the Minister tried to salvage what grounds he could and accused these boys of being manipulated by a public relations organisation. That is a lot of nonsense.  Mr Varney,  who was with the boys, does work for a public relations organisation. That is quite true. He is also an officer of the Wesley College Cadet Corps. That is his connection with those boys. I am assured by him- and I approached him- that he received no briefing. He was not asked to do a job nor of course was he paid for doing a job. He knew some of the boys and they asked odd questions that any young man might ask of any adult. This was a simple case of young citizens of this country seeking to be heard on something about which they felt very deeply. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What sum was lent under the provisions of the Defence Service Homes loan scheme during 1974-75. 
What was the cost of administration of the scheme during 1974-75. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Are overseas money drafts to mining companies vetted to ascertain whether the miner is seeking an Australian equity in the lease upon which the money in question is to be spent. 
If so, what is the procedure that is involved. 
How long are drafts delayed pending clarification of Australian equity or other questions. 
-Before referring to the Local Government Grants Bill now before the House, let me deal with a matter raised by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who has just resumed his seat. He has misrepresented the policy on federalism of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. This, I believe, can only be a deliberate misrepresentation. Frankly, I thought better of this Minister although we have become used to misrepresentations particularly from the front bench of the Labor Party in the last few weeks. 
The Minister referred to the position of the smaller States under the proposals put forward by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party for the better government of this nation. He implied that they would be worse off and that they would in some way suffer from the proposals that we have put before the Parliament and the people of Australia. In this respect, let me read to the House clause 8. It is very short. It provides: 
It is intended that the principle of equalisation and the current advantages accruing to the less populous States vis a vis New South Wales and Victoria shall be sustained at all stages. 
This can be done under the terms of our policy by variations in the base grant to the States, as it is done now and as it is done in Canada. The Minister referred to Canada when he misrepresented the policy of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. The reason why the taxes vary in the manner in which they do in Canada, I am given to understand, is that the wealth of the various areas in Canada has recently shifted. Those provinces that had access to the strongest taxing base ceased to be the provinces that had access to the strongest taxing base and the equalisation grants were not varied rapidly enough. But they can be varied and will be varied, if the same situation should happen in Australia. The truth of the matter is that the equalisation grants will be designed to take account of the tax base as it is at the date of the most recent review of those grants. 
The Local Government Grants Bill provides approximately $80m for the States for redistribution to local government. This is approximately $6 a head of population or approximately $25 a family. Before I go any further, I wish to read a quotation to the House. Let me say first that this quotation does not come from Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland but in fact is a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  In the course of his second reading speech on the Grants Commission Bill, the Prime Minister said: 
The financial assistance to local governing bodies which will flow from the Commission's recommendations will in no way be a substitute for the revenues normally raised by them by long established methods such as rates and charges for services, nor will it replace assistance normally provided by State governments to local governing bodies in one way or another. Rather it will be in the nature of a 'topping-up' process of the financial resources of lesser endowed bodies to enable them by reasonable revenue raising efforts on their part, to provide a standard of services to their communities that will be comparable with that enjoyed by communities elsewhere. 
At first blush, it might sound all very sensible and easy to administer. But I invite honourable members to place themselves in the position of a shire councillor. Do they think that moneys that they receive from one source will not affect the revenues that they raise from another source? I am not suggesting that this should not be the case. I am merely demonstrating the other world in which these financial wizards on the Government benches live. This is the same sort of woolly thinking that sent the Government chasing around the world for enormous sums of money that do not exist. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who spoke a few minutes ago, boasted- I am surprised that this came from this Minister too - 
Well, he is one of those who has tended to talk about the underprivileged and so on. This Minister rises to his feet and boasts about the money that the Government is diverting to affluent areas. It was a policy of the Labor Party to buy off the middle ground to get itself into office, and in this way it sold out all that the Labor movement had stood for. A few minutes ago we heard a Minister boasting to the House about the way the Government had diverted resources from those whom it taxes to affluent areas. The proposals now before us seek to do much the same thing. They divert funds from people who are taxed on their beer, cigarettes, petrol, and income through pay-as-you-earn deductions, to land holders. Any money that comes to local government from that source will quite rightly, because the members of local government authorities have a responsibility to their local ratepayers and their local citizens, eventually result in a reduction in the money raised from other sources. Let the Government not run away from the fact that it is taking money across the board and is applying it to people in the community who own land. Let it think through its financial wizardry in a manner that produces some rational result for the sake of this nation, because it sorely needs better government. It is my belief that in the short term it is going to get it. If the proposals for funding local government are not handled very carefully indeed we are going to have long time mendicant councils, as I think we have now- mendicant not to their State capitals but to Canberra, and frankly I do not see that as an improvement. 
The Grants Commission recognises the difficulty of its task. It recognises the difficulty of collecting money at the centre and disbursing it in a rational manner that will be equitable and will preserve some measure of authority and decision making at local government level, the arms of government that are nearer the people. Having recognised the need and spoken of effort and neutrality, the bulk of the commissioner' report dealt with the difficulty of this task and the fact that they had not achieved their aim. I do not blame the commissioners. I do not blame  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell for that. The truth of the matter is that because of the woolly thinking that propounds the policies of this Government those commissioners were charged with doing the impossible. It is quite impossible to gather evidence from 488 councils, to evaluate that evidence against some sort of rational criteria and then with the greatest care in the world to disburse money to those councils in a manner that will not usurp their authority. 
What happened? In the first year in particular some very crazy regions were established by the central authority over the heads of the local government bodies. We had regions that did not take account of community of interest. We had regions that did not take account of the natural communication avenues such as roads and rivers. In fact, in my State we had regions which were so unworkable that they were not worked at all. We had allocations that just did not seem to accord with any rational assessment at all, not because the Commission did not try to make a job of it, but because it was charged with doing the impossible. 
I compare 2 towns in my own electorate. Last year- the first year of the scheme- the town of 
Moora received a grant of precisely nothing. The town of Dalwallinu received a grant of $27,000. 1 know these 2 towns well. I was a shire councillor in the town of Dalwallinu for several years. I cannot for the life of me see why the Commission should have discriminated against the town of Moora. In fact, it had problems that the town of Dalwallinu did not have. It has a flood problem. It has a high percentage of Aboriginal people. It has the housing problems and social welfare problems that unfortunately often attend those communities. In the second year of the operation of the scheme both councils received $35,000, but what had happened by the second year was that all the funds distributed to councils were distributed with a few exceptions- the more conspicuous of them have been detailed by the Minister- on a fairly simple or close to a fairly simple per capita basis as far as one can establish, but the calculations have never been made available to the councils, to this Parliament or to the public. 
The difficulties at council level, of course, are legion. The Councils are required to make detailed submissions but because it has been impossible to define disability- I believe it always will remain impossible to define disability adequately- they are not quite certain upon what basis they are to make submissions and how they are to measure their disabilities. They have been asked to quantify that disability. I ask honourable members: What resources have they to quantify a disability which they cannot define? At what level is the disability if they do not know the norms of other councils? The task is inherently impossible. Incidentally, the whole exercise is not conducted at nil cost or anything near nil cost. Funds for the Commission itself have been budgeted this year at about $839,000. The Councils themselves have very substantial costs indeed. No fewer than 2400 witnesses gave evidence to the Grants Commission. These people had to take from their own time or council time- the time required to prepare their submissions, to understand the case they were to put to the committee. They had to travel. They had to find accommodation. In respect of a small council in my own electorate I costed this expenditure as best I was able this morning, at about $900. The aggregate cost around the nation is appreciable indeed. Yet in its report the Commission said, I am certain that it had need to say this if it was to do the job it is charged with doing: 
It was a considerable disappointment that a substantial proportion of the written submissions made little or no attempt to list or quantify disabilities. 
It is so difficult indeed to quantify those disabilities that I do not believe they will ever be adequately quantified. What we will have will be submissions from councils that rest on rhetoric and on the best use of inadequate figures. If the Commission does not in the end adopt what amounts to an across-the-board formal system of allocation, the greatest grants are almost bound to go to councils that employ the greatest advocates. The money will go to those who are the best speakers and who present their case in the best manner. To my mind that is not what local government is all about and it is certainly not what the distribution of public finance should be all about. 
Local government is one of 3 arms of government. It is the arm of government that is nearest to the people. There are 2 requirements if this arm of government, or any arm of government, is to be an arm of government in the real sense of the word and not a mere administrator. It must have appropriate real powers. In other words, its functions must not be taken from it by some back door method. It must not receive its money in a manner that does not allow it to make the essential decisions about the use of that money. It must have adequate funds to fulfil the areas of government administration assigned to it. This Bill does go some way towards providing those funds but it does not go so far as to make a great difference in leaving disposable funds in the hands of those councils. If the councils come to understand the formula by which the funds are distributed their decisions will then be guided by meeting that formula in such a way that they will qualify for the maximum amount of funding from that source and,  de facto,  the essential decision will have been taken from them. The essential decision will have been made elsewhere. 
The purported aims of the grants are to reduce inequalities between councils and to strengthen the status of local government. I suggest that the latest grants do very little to reduce inequalities. In the main councils were given very close to equal amounts on a per capita basis of shire membership. The whole attitude of this Government will do nothing to strengthen the status of local government. Surely the status of local government means status in the area of government itself- the right to make meaningful decisions. At the same time as local government was spending last year's grant of something less than $80m in areas over which it had some discretion the Regional Employment Development scheme was disbursing $97m on specific projects. We had unequalising grants more than matching the equalising grants. The whole scheme of central funding for specific purposes, funding by any formula that is within the understanding and manipulation of the councils, is completely inimical to the status of local government. There is one system and one system only and that is block funding where discretion is left completely in the hands of the area of government destined to exercise that area of authority. 
Has the Prime Minister noticed reports that people in the Western Australian State seat of Greenough have returned a Liberal member to the State House? Has he noticed that the Australian Labor Party vote was down by 7 per cent and that even the right wing Workers Party polled approximately as many votes as his once great Party? 
-The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  outlined his views on the value of inquiry into educational institutions. I do not quarrel with him about that. The reservations of the Opposition and of myself about the proposal currently before the House stem from the fact that there has not been that inquiry. There has been an inquiry upon an arrangement for the amalgamation of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education but there has not been inquiry into the need to amalgamate the successful Universities Commission with the successful Commission on Advanced Education. There has been a loaded reference to inquire as to how they may be amalgamated but what we need is an inquiry into whether they should be amalgamated. 
With this reservation in mind the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have undertaken in their education policy to examine closely the Labor Government's proposal to amalgamate these commissions. There is very little support for the amalgamation in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education (  Mr Beazley)  and at this stage very little support for it has been introduced into this debate. The Minister made the assertion that no amount of consultation could guarantee the degree of overall co-ordination and rationalisation in tertiary education programs which now is clearly desirable. But then in his second reading speech he said absolutely nothing to defend that assertion.  His  whole case rests on an undefended assertion. 
Certainly there is a blurring of the edges of the functions of these 2 areas of education. It is undeniable that there is some overlap. There is overlap on the students' side. The student must choose between the institutions and he may well have a difficulty of choice if his needs fall somewhere near the middle. In the provision of the range of courses there is overlap from the side of the institutions themselves. This no one would deny. But there is real doubt about the assertion that adequate consultation would not provide a situation where the courses of the institutions met the needs of students and would avoid a situation where inadvertently there might be a doubling up of student places. Surely that would be a fairly simple result to flow from adequate consultation. 
One argument against the amalgamation of the 2 commissions is that' there are quite substantial differences in their functions. Hitherto they have functioned very successfully. Why put them at risk by amalgamating the 2 commissions? The Universities Commission has always dealt directly with institutions. The Commission on Advanced Education has always dealt with States. The universities operate under separate Acts and the colleges, with the exception of those in the Territories, operate under one State Act in each State. There is also another difference in that the Universities Commission recommends funds for institutions while the Commission on Advanced Education recommends support for courses. 
In reporting on the machinery to amalgamate these 2 commissions the panel which reported on the arrangements for amalgamation stated: 
The large number of colleges is a practical consideration limiting the extent of direct dealings between the Commission and the individual colleges.  1 think it is a practical difficulty, although in passing one might wonder how at one stage the Schools Commission was expected to deal with individual schools. It is not surprising that the commissions are different because in fact there is a quite substantial difference of function in these 2 areas of tertiary education. It is a difference of function that I believe we should do everything we can to preserve. 
The primary emphasis of universities is the pursuit and preservation of knowledge. The primary emphasis of colleges of advanced education is vocation; it is the application of knowledge. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  went to some length to define the differences between these 2 organisations. I will not attempt to go over that ground again. But I am speaking of an important difference- a difference that is important to young men and women who will be the future Australia. There is a risk that if we blur these differences by attempting to raise the academic standard of one and to lower the academic standard of the other we will not cater in the future for the diverse needs of this country. There is a risk- and I place it no higher than a risk- that if we have one commission this blurring will in fact occur in spite of the efforts to provide differences within that one commission. The panel that was charged with reporting on the arrangements for the amalgamation and not for the need was obviously acutely aware of this problem. It is because of this risk that most of all I support the Opposition's amendment that expresses our reservations about the need and the desirability of amalgamating these 2 commissions. 
The cost of running one commission as opposed to running 2 commissions will probably not be a great deal different. This point is made in paragraphs 7.5 and 7.6 of the panel's report. Paragraph 7.5 of the report states: 
In the panel's view, a Secretariat organised along these lines- 
That is, one secretariat to deal with the daytoday functions of the 2 councils-  could be adequately staffed with fewer posts than currently exist in the combined total establishments of the two existing Commissions, provided there is some up-grading of the middle and higher level posts. 
Paragraph 7.6 states: 
The panel is strongly of the view that strengthening at senior staff levels will be necessary, in comparison with the senior staff complements of the existing Commissions, to enable the Secretariat to cope adequately with expanded responsibilities flowing from the more comprehensive coordinating and management responsibilities of the new Commission . . . 
We can see 2 things from those quotes. First of all apparently there will be more chiefs and fewer indians. although I am sceptical about there being fewer indians. I suspect that we will have more chiefs and more indians. One might well make a comparison with what happened in respect of the Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission where promptly there was an increase in the number of chiefs. We can also see from the quotations that the panel expects that the Commission, the councils and their staffs will undertake 'more comprehensive co-ordinating and management responsibilities  If they persist with management responsibilities I suggest that in the very nature of things they will start to conform to one pattern and we will start to get a blurring of the difference between universities and colleges of advanced education. The Opposition does not believe that this is desirable. The panel obviously did not believe that this was desirable. Hence my support for the amendment to the second reading motion. 
-The Liberal Party and the National Country Party have been elected to government with a record majority. I think it is reasonable that we ask ourselves why and what we are elected to do. Members of the Opposition have behaved like petulant school children. They have done everything possible to go over the past, to debate the issues that the public, rejected. I remind the Opposition that it was not the Governor-General, it was not members of the Liberal Party or members of the Country Party who decimated the previous Government's numbers; it was the public, the ultimate masters of us all. We should listen to the public. We should look at why we* are in this place and what the tasks in front of us are. Clearly the Government was elected to provide honest and competent government again and above all to restore the economy to health. Yet every honourable member opposite has devoted his time to being an amateur constitutional lawyer. I have never heard so much bogus rot repeated and repeated, and to what end? What honourable members opposite could be doing is devoting their energies to the difficult problems that face this country and the government of it and to the restoration of our economy. 
There will always be differences of opinion, as was remarked by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  as to the best economic course to follow. Those differences of opinion should be debated because, above all, those economic problems are the major problems of this country right now. 
First there is the difficulty of the identification of the problem. That is what we should be debating. Then there is the problem of the will to tackle it. I suggest that the previous Government came quite a long way towards identification of the problem, but it lacked the will to tackle it. The overwhelming weight of advice is that economic action ought to involve the reining in of Government expenditure, a gentle tightening of the money supply, wage restraint, encouragement of investment and of profit again. In this manner we will control inflation gradually over a long time but certainly and steadily and hence we will again approach full employment. 
There has been talk of a consumer led recovery but loose talk and it has not been defended. If honourable members opposite believe it, they should defend it. That is what this Parliament is all about. They should do that instead of talking nonsense about non-issues. I do not believe that we can spend ourselves rich but if that is a serious contention, defend it. 
I wish to say something about the Labor view of the economic situation before it went out of office, because by so doing I should pre-empt a lot of unnecessary argument. I quote first  Senator James  McClelland who was speaking about an increase in average weekly earnings. In the Senate on 3 September 1975, he said: 
Yes. I think it was nearer to 28 per cent. Of course that was a disastrous figure. I suggest that the starting point of all serious economic thought would be that the disastrous level of percentage increase in salaries and wages last year had to be cut back at all costs and by whatever methods were available. 
He said further in the same speech: 
As we freely concede, the economy has paid a price for this expansion in the deficit. 
He continued: 
We freely concede that investment in the private sector is not likely to take off in any real sense until businessmen can see some signs of an abatement in the level of inflation. 
He also said in that speech:  . . . at the present stage of our economic difficulties uncontrolled increases in wages are probably the most important ingredients in continuing inflation. 
Let me quote next from the Budget Speech delivered by the former Treasurer. He said: 
On the economic front, inflation is this nation's most menacing enemy. 
He continued: 
Our present level of unemployment is too high. If we fail to control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
Later, he said: 
In the context of an economy beginning to pick up, a deficit  of the  order initially projected would have been a prescription for accelerating inflation. Its acceptance would  have been tantamount to abandoning concern with inflation, discarding our wages policies, condemning the corporate sector to an attack upon its profitability and threatening the future jobs of thousands of Australians- all at a time when the first signs of improvement in most of those respects are beginning to appear. 
He said further: 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in employment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
The former Labor Treasurer. 
The last one-the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He said also in his Budget Speech: 
It is not possible to provide more and more government services or transfer payments from the Budget without ultimately having to pay for them through cutting back aftertax earnings via increased taxes. It is not possible to get quarts out of pint pots. 
He continued: 
If Budget outlays this year were again to grow faster than total spending, a further decline in the private sector share of GDP would ensue. That would mean an accelerated decline in investment and productivity as well as a further contraction in job opportunities. 
Those were the opinions of the Labor Party. I have read several extracts but I assure this Parliament that I have not destoyed the context. Members opposite can check on that point for themselves. All honourable members will remember the words: 'One man's pay rise is another man's job'. The budgeted deficit was $2,798m. However we are approaching a deficit of $4,700m an error, no less, of $ 1 ,902m. Are Opposition members seriously suggesting that Budget cuts to bring expenditure back towards their own budgeted figure are inappropriate? I have made my remarks because I hope to prevent a lot of unnecessary argument on areas where the Labor Party has committed itself to the same line as the Government is adopting. The malaise that the nation faces is fundamental. I think we can look overseas and learn something. In Great Britain we have seen the value of the pound falling, disastrously low industrial output, disastrous inflation, unemployment, falling standards of living and an inability to compete, all because of the economic burden of 55 per cent government sector spending- the free feed philosophy and the belief that you can have it for nothing. We are heading down that same road and we would be wise not to follow it. There are no free feeds. People, shires, State governments, sporting clubs, industries- you name it- have been encouraged to hold out their hands and ask big brother government for some assistance every time the going is a little difficult. No nation ever became great by doing nothing. No government produces; it merely transfers resources. It makes one person rich at another person's expense. If it saps the will of every member of the community to do something for himself and for the team, the nation must inevitably go down hill. Governments possess that most delicious of all privileges- the spending of other people's money. If they abuse that privilege and in so doing sap the will of the people of our nation, we will surely collapse. We will surely be a poor nation. If, on the other hand, we are to be a great nation it will be because of the effort of individual Australians. It is the Government's responsibility to lead that effort. 
-The Bill provides for the payment of grants to the States for government and non-government schools in the 1976 calendar year. It is in accord with the undertakings of the Government when it was in office during the caretaker period and it is in line with the provisions outlined by the Australian Schools Commission inquiry commissioned by the previous Labor Government. There is only one small deviation from the report of the Schools Commission and that relates to the special projects program. There is a small reduction in funding from $5.2m to $3.6m. It merely takes account of the fact that the projects are starting late and only a portion of the period will be left in which to complete them. Price levels will be supplemented in further amending legislation so that the real value of the grants is retained. 
The Opposition proposes to move 2 amendments. In foreshadowing those amendments the shadow Minister for Education, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  spoke of a stupid society. He seemed to suggest that the stupidity that was in the Australian society stopped at Canberra. Certainly when one looks back on what has happened one sees that society makes mistakes and one might even on occasion judge society to be stupid, but Canberra has no immunity. We are no more likely to make wise decisions about education by confining those decisions to the central government than we are by making them nearer to the source of the problem, nearer to those being educated. The shadow Minister suggested that it was wrong just to give a sum of money to the States. I agree that that is less than we ought to do. Through a body such as the Schools Commission, we ought to advise on educational expenditure throughout the Commonwealth with a view to not duplicating assessment and research, with a view to maintaining a measure of equality between areas and between States, but certainly not in such a way that we stifle useful and helpful diversity. 
The Karmel report proposed funds for the 1974 and 1975 calendar years and the funds were provided through the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973. The first report of the Schools Commission for the 1976-1978 triennium was rejected, as were the reports for the same period of the Universities Commission, the Commission on Technical and Further Education and the Commission on Advanced Education. I should like to discuss the reasons for the rejection of those reports. It has to be remembered that the reports were rejected by a Labor Government, the Government which set up the Schools Commission. Undoubtedly the Schools Commission is a useful body and has much to offer; yet its first report was rejected. I do not believe that it was rejected in order to spite the education authorities. I do not believe that the Labor Party wished to make that rejection. I believe that it had got itself into a position where it had to reject the report. It became a choice between one form of expenditure and another. Medibank was budgeted to cost $ 1,445m and health services were to rise by 1 16 per cent. The total education budget was $ 1,908m. One could argue reasonably that it became a choice between the Medibank proposal, to which the then Government was committed, and the proposals of the 
Schools Commission and the other education commissions. Any government will be faced with a choice between priorities. 
I want to quote 2 short statements from the Labor Treasurer's Budget Speech to indicate to the House that the Labor Government realised that it was in a dilemma. The Labor Treasurer said: 
It is not possible to provide more and more government services or transfer payments from the Budget without ultimately having to pay for them through cutting back aftertax earnings via increased taxes. It is not possible to get quarts out of pint pots. 
Further on he said: 
If Budget outlays this year were again to grow faster than total spending, a further decline in the private sector share of GDP would ensue. That would mean an accelerated decline in investment and productivity as well as a further contraction in job opportunities. 
The importance of that statement in this context is its demonstration of the fact that the Labor Party- perhaps for reasons of its own making, but for whatever reasons- had run out of options. 
I wish to consider the role of the education commissions in times when Budgets are more difficult. The Universities Commission worked well during the time then the economy was stable, when Federal Budgets were predictable, when they grew but grew steadily and quietly. The present coalition Government has inherited an impossible budgetary situation and, like the previous Government, it will face difficulties in doing all the things that it would like to do. In those circumstances, in what manner should commissions such as the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission, the other education commissions, and commissions and advisory bodies in other areas, make their reports to the Government? With what should they be charged? Firstly and clearly, I think they should report publicly, because that is the difference between those commissions and the departments, which very properly are the servants of the Minister and of the Government and which report privately to the Minister and to the Government. By the commissions reporting to the public through the Parliament, their reports are subject to the rigours of public evaluation. They will be assessed by other people who have expertise in the area of the reports. They will not be subject, as departmental advice is, to the entrenched policies of yesterday, departmental empire building or interdepartmental rivalry. They will cater also for the non-government sector and report in a way that is likely to be impartial as between the government sector and the non-government sector. 
I know that the private sector of education is genuinely fearful that if the education commissions, particularly the Schools Commission, do not retain their independence and authority they will suffer. Such commissions must complement the bureaucracy, not do the bureaucracy's job. If they do an administrative task, thenown independence will be suspect and they will have to defend past decisions, past policies and staff. In fact, their entire authority should rest upon public acceptance of their ability and integrity. If the Government rejects their advice it will be seen to do so and, quite properly, it will be called upon by the public to answer for its political decision. It may be a political decision that is taken quite properly, but it is also quite proper that the public- in this case that part of the public that is involved in education- should question the decision and ask for the reasons for which such an administrative decision was taken. 
The authority of the advisory body lies in its reputation. That should not be sacrificed or put at risk. Appointees should represent a wide selection of the community, but in no way should they be regarded as representatives, let alone delegates, of sections of the community. They should be chosen for their expertise, their understanding and their ability. It is important that they have that standing, and that standing alone. The moment they speak for States, for unions or for a section of education they will prejudice the acceptance, if not the integrity, of their advice. As I have said already that advice must have standing; if it does not have standing, it is nothing. If a body is to report with a so-called table of needs, what it is doing in fact is making a judgment as to what is the proper break-up of a finite cake- for all cakes are finite. At any time a government will have just so much to spend, can only afford to tax so hard, can only run up deficits so big. So we will be making the choice between say defence and education, if the government says that so much should be spent on education. What we need is a process of reporting and advice that will not prejudice the Government's ability to make any decisions but will advise within the area of competence of the advisory authority- the Schools Commission on schools, and on schools alone. Therefore the body is going to have to give its advice in such a way that the Government can draw a line at a certain point and say that it accepts, or conspicuously and publicly rejects, its priorities, and that that amount is how much we can allocate to schools. Or the commission must be advised beforehand what the Budget allocation will be. That, I suggest, will be very difficult particularly in times when it is difficult to control budgets, when inflation is high and when government expenditure is already over-committed. Or the advisory authority, the Commission, can bring in a draft report for discussion and, close to the Budget, can be advised on where it is to bring its final report, which will be published at the time of the Budget. However, that does not fit with the situation of annual or triennial funding which does not match financial year budgeting. I think that the best of the alternatives is charging the Commission with the task of bringing in a table of priorities so that governments, if they deviate from them, can be seen to deviate from them, but the integrity and the independence of the advice of the Commission will not be prejudiced. 
-The amendment, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, is a simple one. The point is that it is unnecessary. There are several provisions in the Bill for the transfer of funds. In each case the Minister for Education would, as a matter of course, consult with the Schools Commission. Under clause 7 (5) of the Bill the Parliament will be informed as soon as practicable after the decision has been taken. If Parliament had to be informed before the decision was taken, and Parliament was not sitting, the delay would be inordinate. 
-The Commonwealth Teaching Service BUI is a noncontentious measure with very few changes from the Bill proposed by the Labor Party when it was in government. One difference from that Bill is that we still refer to the Commonwealth Teaching Service whereas the former Government sought to refer to the Australian Teaching Service. It was an unnecessary complication. There are many Australian teaching services; there is one in every State. When one wishes to indicate the Commonwealth, the Federal organisation of Australia, one may as well refer to it as such. If one is referring to a body which is essentially Australian as opposed to one which is the province, business or function of some other country, one would refer to it as the Australian body; for example, the Australian armed Services. The word 'Commonwealth' is used in relation to the Commonwealth Teaching Service to ensure clarity. I will never understand the reason for the hang up that the previous Government had about calling every Commonwealth function an Australian function. 
This Bill seeks to bring approximately 1100 members of the New South Wales Teaching Service who serve in the Australian Capital Territory under the terms of the Commonwealth long service leave provisions, providing they so wish. At the date when their furlough falls due they can choose whether they will take that furlough under the terms of the New South Wales provisions or the Commonwealth provisions. The New South Wales provisions stipulate 2 months furlough after 10 years of service and one month for every year thereafter. I believe that the Commonwealth provisions stipulate 3 months furlough after 10 years and I think 9 days- a much shorter period- for every year thereafter. This means that the teacher coming into the Service is in a position to take the best of 2 worlds. A teacher who has served for a period of less than 12 years would be better advised to choose the Commonwealth provisions. He will receive more long service leave if he opts to be treated under the Commonwealth provisions. On the other hand, if his long service leave has accrued over a period longer than 1 1 years he would be better advised to choose the New South Wales provisions. This places him in a very happy position. As I have said, it is a generous provision. 
Teachers from the South Australian Teaching Service who teach in the Northern Territory- I understand that there are between 200 and 300 of them- are entitled to the benefits of much the same provisions under the South Australian legislation as under the Commonwealth legislation except that under the Commonwealth legislation pre-service training is not counted as service in assessing long service leave entitlements. Therefore they will be in the position of being able to opt for the better of the 2 provisions and I have no doubt that they will do so. Again these teachers are being treated quite generously. 
The Bill also changes the definition of a teaching organisation in the Australian Capital Territory to bring technical teachers under the provision of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Teachers who now teach at institutions staffed by the New South Wales Teaching Service will have the option of either joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service or transferring to the New South Wales Teaching Service and arranging to be transferred to some other teaching organisation outside of the Australian Capital Territory within the next year or so. I consider that these are quite generous provisions for the teachers concerned. I do not think that they are in any way contentious, and I commend the Bill. 
-Before I address myself to the main matters I intend to discuss I want to raise a point on a matter raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He spoke of the former Labor Government being often foolish but suggested that it never acted with impropriety. I ask him to take his mind back to a certain Executive Council minute that referred to a loan for temporary purposes. Enough of that; it is an old subject. 
There is a myth around this Parliament and in the community that something can be had for nothing. That myth, I believe, is damaging to our economy and to our society. There is one particular aspect of that myth that I wish to discuss tonight. It relates to the protection of various industries and the belief that one can protect one industry without in some way affecting others. It is not that we have not been warned about this often enough in the past. An Industries Assistance Commission report has stated: 
One industry can only be helped at the expense of another industry. 
Way back in the 1 920s the Brigden report stated: 
Taking Government assistance into account, costs of production in the export industries are raised by 9 per cent by protection. 
In the 1960s the Vernon report stated: 
As already mentioned, we have not attempted to assess the net impact of the tariff and bounties on export industries. The subject of 'offsetting' benefits is complex and would repay further study. We suspect, however, that the wool industry bears proportionately more of the net impact of the cost-price squeeze than most other export industries. Some simple calculations relating to this industry, made by the Secretariat - 
And reported on in Appendix L of that document- suggest, that on the basis of Commonwealth Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates, total cost would be reduced by 8 per cent, if materials, together with plant and equipment, used in the industry were free of duty. 
In the document entitled  Rural Policy in Australia,  which is known as the rural Green Paper, it was stated: 
Without the tariff, the devaluation which would have been necessary to maintain full employment and external balance, while raising domestic costs as the tariff does, would have raised the Australian currency equivalent of export receipts. 
A study in a report by the Australian Wool Board in 1973 entitled  Secondary Industry Protection and the Wool Industry  found that the tariff structure cost to the wool industry alone is in excess of $200min 1967-68 terms. 
There are no free feeds; yet this is not readily understood. It is not readily understood why this is the case. What I want to attempt to do is to explain how it is that there are no free feeds. There are 3 effects of a protection measure. It raises the cost of goods. 
A tariff directly raises the cost of imported goods. I think that is obvious enough and clearly enough understood. But it raises the cost of goods that compete with those important goods. If the alternative to a good manufactured in Australia is to buy one manufactured overseas the good manufactured in Australia is dearer by the amount that is necessary to keep out that overseas good. There is also the effect upon the exchange rate. This is probably the least understood effect. It is important because it affects the whole nature of the argument. What we have to consider is not the position of protection versus no protection but of protection via the tariff, bounty or what have you and protection via the exchange rate. They do have different effects but they both protect in large measure the now protected industries. 
If Australia or any other country erects barriers against imports, be they tariffs, quotas or transport and handling costs, fewer goods will be purchased from overseas and less of the country 's foreign exchange, which is earned by selling overseas, will be used up. Other things being equal, the overseas reserves will rise. While a surplus of overseas reserves is insurance against a rainy day it is of no immediate value to the citizens of Australia, who could use the goods and services which might be purchased with them but which are kept out by the trade barrier. If the currency is not revalued or the barrier lowered the reserves will go on growing. Meanwhile speculative money will flow into the country as people buy Australian dollars in anticipation of a revaluation. That is highly inflationary, hard to control and hence unacceptable. 
Imports are permitted to flow again by revaluing the Australian dollar, so making them cheaper when sold for Australian dollars inside Australia. Import competing industries gain the advantage of a tariff or other form of protection and subsequently suffer the disadvantage of an exchange rate higher than it would otherwise have been, that is, their competitors' imports are cheaper when measured in terms of Australian dollars. On the other hand, when Australia lowers its trade barriers the reverse will happen. Other things being equal, the foreign reserves will run down and Australia must devalue its currency, so making foreign goods dearer in Australian dollars and the price of exports higher when measured in Australian dollars. The import competing industries lose the protection of the tariff or other barrier and gain the protection of a lower exchange rate. 
Of course, all things are not always equal and the Australian exchange rate is affected by many circumstances besides Australian tariffs and the reduction of the tariff protection might result in a revaluation that was prevented or less than it otherwise would have been or in a devaluation that was greater than it otherwise would have been. The essential difference between protection by tariff or other import restriction and protection by the exchange rate is that one, the tariff, is selective in its effect and the other, the exchange rate, is general. A change from tariff protection to exchange protection would result in a transfer of resources from high protection industry to low protection industry. In other words, it would result in the transfer of resources from activities that we do not do so well to other activities that we do better. 
We should look at the cost to the community as a whole- not the cost to the disadvantaged section of the community but the cost to the whole community across the board- of what we are doing. According to an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development report for the period 1960 to 1973 Australia's gross domestic product per head grew more slowly than that of 19 OECD countries and more quickly than or as fast as only three. Australia's gross domestic product slipped from eighth to eleventh place over that period and only Britain declined further and hence much faster. So in terms of production, increasing the wealth per head, for some reason we are not doing very well. That OECD report suggested that Australia's protection measures, which are not only higher but also much more variable, might well be a major portion of the cost of this failure to increase our wealth at the rate that most other developed Western countries are achieving. 
Attempts have been made to quantify this cost. David Evans, in a model that he set up, estimated that it would cost from 0.8 to 1.8 per cent of the gross domestic product- and that was back in 1958-59 when the general level of protection was lower and less varied. Those figures might not sound very much, but we should remember that 0.8 per cent of the 1974-75 spending, assuming that the percentage has come through the years and it has probably increased drastically, is $472m. That is roughly equivalent to what we are now spending on foreign affairs and aid or to what we are now spending on the unemployed and the sick. If one takes his higher estimate the amount is $ 1,062m- over $1 billion- and that is roughly equivalent to all the money that we spend on tertiary education, including technical education. In other words, on his estimates, if we were to have the gains from doing those things that we do best, we would have this additional wealth to spend on those things that we would choose to do. 
There are other more recent estimates. Dixon and Butlin estimated the figure at 3 per cent of gross domestic product, which is equivalent to $ 1,770m- roughly the total expenditure on education. The IAC contends that these are very substantial under-estimates. It gives 3 reasons, the main one being that these models were only able to estimate the cost that resulted from misallocation of resources between broad industry groups. However, there was a very different level of protection within those industry groups. In addition to the measured loss, a substantial loss results from misallocation of resources within the industry groups of the models that they used to measure the loss to the community at large. I point out that these are very substantial figures. hey do not represent the losses to industry receiving low or negative protection- which are in fact greater- but the losses to the community at large. 
This indicates the amount by which we are all poorer. However, the burden is certainly not spread throughout the community evenly. It is borne by the low protection industries, which incidentally, in answer to an interjection I heard earlier, are not just the rural industries. Many manufacturing industries have no protection at all and in fact have negative effective protection. I refer also to the mining industry. Wool growers, meat growers and grain producers have been estimated to suffer an annual loss of some $543m, which is about $4,000 per producer or 40c per kilogram of wool. I concede that those estimates are subject to challenge of degree, but even if halved they are enormous. The argument stands even after any likely challenge to the figures. Of course there is another way in which the resources' are misallocated. Western Australians and Queenslanders are not very happy about this misallocation either because it results in a substantial transfer of resources from those 2 States to the States in the south east corner, particularly Victoria. What I wish to base my argument on mainly is that we are all poorer. I am not for a moment suggesting that we can go to a free trade position or that we should or that we could even do what is more rational quickly, because clearly we cannot. There is a misallocation of resources which results from change itself. If moves are made too quickly the resources take some time to find their new home. 
However, we must recognise the error of our ways in the past and not compound the errors we have already made. We should decide in which direction we wish to head and then slowly and gradually move towards the position where we concentrate on doing those things that we do well to the benefit of us all. The Treasury paper on economic growth of five or six years ago pointed out that growth was worth having in its own right and that it did give us an opportunity to take up the social goals about which so much is said. The paper pointed out that growth gave us the opportunity to be better defended and the opportunity to have a better education system and a better health system. 
Yes, a better environment. You name it. The important thing is that we get ourselves the wherewithal to take these benefits unto ourselves. Probably most of all there is a misconception in the area of employment. The tariff wall or the protection wall- not merely tariffs are involved, although they make up a big portion of it- does not create employment; it transfers employment from one position to another. It provides jobs in the car industry. As has been said often enough in this place they are not the best sorts of jobs in the world. They are jobs that are thoroughly depressing. There seems to be little argument about that. By using the tariff to provide those jobs, because we have lowered the price of other commodities like meat and copper we have denied people employment in other places. In fact in theory and I believe in practiceno one has managed to demonstrate to me that it is not so- the net change in employment is nil. You neither gain nor lose employment with a tariff wall. That is not to say that a change in the level of protection, particularly if the change is rapid, might not result in temporary unemployment. Changes do result in temporary unemployment because the resources are not as mobile as we would like them to be. The end result is, however, that without gaining employment we have all left ourselves quite appreciably poorer. 
Finally I want to say a few words that probably will embarrass the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  There is much that I want to say about the courageous stand that he has taken on this issue over many years. It is fairly easy for me to stand up here and talk on this matter because I know that there are now many with similar views on both sides of the chamber at this point, but for a long time there was really only one honourable member who spoke out consistently on this issue, and he was alone. It was the honourable member for Wakefield. It is the fate of many members of Parliament to pass through this place largely unnoticed. Many members of Parliament who are promoted in the ordinary sense will scarcely rate a mention in the history books, even those directly of this Parliament. I suggest that the honourable member for Wakefield will not have passed unnoticed. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Papua New Guinea Government demanded that the border in Torres Strait be moved to within 16 kilometres of Cape York? Did the Deputy Prime Minister, in his talks with the Queensland Premier this week, seek a compromise that would go part of the way towards meeting this demand? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government had any reports of Soviet Union reaction to his foreign policy statement? If so, will he inform the House what that reaction is? 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen a Press report stating that, as a result of the reductions in money to be appropriated for Aboriginal affairs, over 1000 Aborigines will be unemployed? Can the Minister provide  some  information on this matter? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What was Qantas' profit or loss in the financial year 1974-75. 
What are Qantas' borrowings and at what interest rates are the outstanding loans. 
Were these funds obtained at commercial interest rates. 
If not, by how much was each loan above or below the current commercial interest rate at the time of borrowing. 
Were the terms of any loans more generous than would have been obtained by a normal loan subscribed by the public. 
Is Qantas a signatory to any restrictive agreement relating to fares, if so, what is the name of the agreement, what are its broad terms, and who are the other signatories. 
Are some airfares to Australia higher than they would be if Qantas were not a signatory to a restrictive agreement, if so, by how much from: (a) Singapore; (b) Honolulu; and, (c) Auckland. 
Are some airfares from Australia higher than they would be if Qantas were not a signatory to a restrictive agreement, if so, by how much to: (a) Singapore; (b) Honolulu; and, (c) Auckland. 
Are airfares to and from Australia higher than they would be if other international airlines which are not signatories to a restrictive agreement were encouraged to fly routes in and out of Australia. 
If so, has any estimate been made of the cost to Australia 's tourist trade resulting from these higher fares. 
Would the terms of any agreement to which Qantas is a signatory be acceptable if entered into by two or more Australian domestic companies. 
If not, which Act would be offended by the agreement, and in what manner. 
13) What are the specific benefits to Australia of a flagcarrying airline. 
14) Are any routes flown by Qantas unprofitable, if so, which routes. 
-In 1972 the McMahon Government announced a program of continuing review by the Tariff Board of those industries of highest cost, that is, those industries receiving the highest levels of protection. The announcement was made by the then Minister for Trade and Industry, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony. The Minister later announced a speeding up of the inquiry and an expansion of the Tariff Board to handle the work load. It was realised that there were substantial costs associated with high protection which were borne by the whole community and disproportionate costs borne by sections of it. The Tariff Board then announced a program going through to 1978 for conduct of that review. I remember well the criticism levelled at the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  by people employed in export industries who felt that the review should be conducted more quickly. In the main, that criticism was made by people who did not appreciate the shortage of suitable men to conduct the inquiries or the time that each inquiry inevitably must take. However, the criticism did reflect the pressing need felt by those people. Those manufacturers who depend on imports as part of their end product must have felt a similar urgency. 
For some years the program proceeded more or less on schedule. However, it is now slipping behind and these references have not yet been dealt with: No. 20, jewellery and silverware, due in October 1975; No. 21, nuts, bolts, screws and rivets, due in October 1975; No. 22, cans and canisters, due in October 1975; No. 23, furniture, due in December 1975; No. 24, fabricated metal products, due in January 1 976; and No. 26, paper products, due in May 1976. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has promised the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council,  Mr E.  P. S. Roberts 'That the tariff review should generally continue in accordance with the published program'. I congratulate him for that. I also congratulate the Government for a passage in its submission to the national wage case. I quote from page 63. It reads: 
Higher tariffs of course do not overcome the underlying problems of Australia's poor competitive showing. In a very real sense, indeed, they exacerbate the general problem, because higher tariffs tend to raise the prices of the affected imports and of the local product afforded additional protection. Whatever the higher tariff may do for the individual industry concerned, therefore, it results in pushing up the general price level; and when wages are further adjusted for price rises all industries find their costs rising. 
I congratulate the Government for making that statement. 
This Government. So it does not sound as though the Government is likely to be influenced unduly by the submission from the Metal Trades Industry Association which asks that the review of its industry be delayed by 2 years. Why does it ask? Because it will be too busy recovering from the slump to attend the inquiry- an inquiry announced as to timing in 1972. It is one thing for a government to reject the advice of its advisory bodies- in this case the Industries Assistance Commission. The bodies are advisory and have no executive powers of their own. Governments must consider matters of wider significance than those covered by the expert body; but it is quite another not to make the reference which seeks those facts and arguments. It is ridiculous for the MTIA to ask for it. Inquiry into high protection industries is necessary to provide the knowledge with which to make rational decisions and the program should proceed as planned and as promised. 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of a contention broadcast by one Western Australian television station that the Government is considering the reintroduction of television and radio licences? Is there any truth in this contention? 
-This evening I wish to discuss what I call the new egalitarianism. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  perhaps inadvertently, gave the House yet further insight into the strange mind of the modern socialist when he said: 
Many people say that generally people should be required to work for unemployment benefits. I am not a strong advocate of that because I think it is very demeaning to send out a person who has a higher school certificate or might have several degrees to pick up papers for the local council. 
Why is the honourable member not an advocate of the requirement that people should work for unemployment benefit? Not because such a course might influence or threaten the employment of others; not because he thinks that it might undermine the wage structures achieved by union activity over the years; not because temporary unemployment might interfere with job seeking; but because it is very demeaning to send a person with a higher school certificate or who might have several degrees to pick up papers for the local council. 
Let us look at the implications. Firstly, that great egalitarian party, the Australian Labor Party, believes that it is very demeaning to do manual work if one happens to have the advantage of a higher education, but not otherwise. Secondly, it is yet another manifestation of the fundamental error of the Whitlam Government that brought about its downfall. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  consciously led Australians to believe that they were entitled to welfare irrespective of whether they were in need of it. It is a variation of the attitude which led him to tax and deficit the Australian economy into stagnation in order to provide welfare for the middle class. Thirdly, it displays a belief that manual work is demeaning- a strange attitude from a Party that calls itself 'Labor'. Most of all, this discrimination in favour of the advantaged and the inference that the manual worker is in some way inferior is surely poor justice. Will the manual worker's back ache any less, will the sun be less hot or the flies less bothersome because he has never studied Euclid and never enjoyed a sonnet? 
Will the Acting Treasurer advise the House of the progress made towards implementing the Government's undertaking on the income equalisation deposits scheme? Will he indicate whether taxpayers interested in the scheme will be required to lodge returns before the exact terms of the legislation are known? Will he indicate under what terms farmers who are at present in the grip of a declared drought will be able to redeem these deposits? 
-A few minutes ago I requested leave to withdraw a proposal for the discussion of a matter of public importance believing that perhaps the Labor Opposition had grown up and that it would stop deliberately inflaming the public with bogus arguments that have now gone on for 12 months. 
If the honourable member listens he will find that my remarks are instructive. Ever since 1 1 November 1975 Australia has endured a barrage of inflammatory statements concerning the events of that day which lead to the election of 13 December last year. This dissention has been carefully fostered in the public mind and we have suffered for it at home and abroad. We have suffered a discredited ex-Prime Minister trying to rewrite the history books to his own benefit. He probably really does believe that if he had been left to govern just a little longer he could have corrected the mistakes that he had so far made. It is normal to feel bitter when you are deprived of the spoils of office. It is not uncommon for a losing team to cry 'foul' but I did not expect that the losing team would go on crying 'foul' for 12 months. 
The umpire was appointed by the present Leader of the Opposition. I still believe these arguments should be ignored. I withdrew my matter of public importance this morning in the belief that the Opposition was not going to pursue these bogus arguments any longer. 
I became hopeful that the Labor Party was not going to press its arguments today and was not going to inflame public passion further. However the speech from the Leader of the Opposition was aimed at just that. These bogus arguments must be answered because, as  Dr Goebbels  said, untruths that are repeated often enough come to be believed. 
The Labor Party was sacked not once but 3 times. It was sacked by the Senate, by the GovernorGeneral and by the people. All the steps of last year did nothing but return the decision to the people. A lot of false argument has been used to suggest that it was tyranny, that in some way the power to govern had been assumed by the then Opposition. What was asserted was the authority of the people. It rests with them, and it was returned to them. Government was chosen by the people as it is expected to be in any democracy. Among all the bogus examples from history about tyranny only one is relevant. It is the suggestion that somehow or other the then Government might govern without Supply, like Charles I during the 11 year tyranny. The Government was prepared to carry on without money and in spite of the people. Even if this had been legal it would have been a repetition of government without the sanction of the people. That is the relevant precedent from history. 
We very carefully culled the arguments that have been used by Labor Party apologists. We put together some fifteen of them. We believe that the list was exhaustive. We were able to pick off each one of them- taking the debate onto the Labor Party's grounds and conducting the debate on the grounds that Labor's own apologists had selected. We managed to mark off each one of those arguments as bogus. There is not a single argument that suggests that the rules were in any way brought into question or that the conventions were in any way brought into question last year. 
-In fact the events of last year demonstrated the value of the conventions. The events returned the power to the people. At no stage was there any usurpation of power by anyone but the people; the people were given the opportunity to exercise their authority. 
Exercise of the reserve powers of the Governor-General was a demonstration that it is necessary at some stage to return a corrupt and incompetent government to its masters. It would be more sensible to worry lest the Senate, when a Party has a majority in both Houses, might not exercise the power that properly belongs to it.  Her  Majesty's loyal Opposition has as much responsibility for the good government of this country as has the Government itself. A corrupt, irresponsible and ineffective government should answer to the people. It has been suggested by interjection that we might have elections every 6 months. The reason we will not have elections every 6 months is that there is a political sanction against that happening, not a legal sanction. There is an effective political sanction. If an opposition sends a government to the people and that government is not thoroughly discredited, the people will vote against the party that sent the government to the people and return the government to office. So there is a political sanction against the over-use of this power. It is a power that should be properly used. It should be used with caution admittedly, but what happened on 13 December last demonstrated that it was properly used. The people of Australia wanted a change of government. The powers that were used to bring about that change of government were carefully written into the Constitution and any reader of constitutional debates will find countless references to the power to reject. 
I can read the Constitution and this provision is very clear in it. It is very clear that those who wrote our Constitution knew exactly what they were doing. There would have been no Federation if that power had not been reserved to the Senate. Deakin very carefully spelt out to the Constitutional Convention how that power would be used. It was clear in his mind that it would be used to dismiss a government; and that is what it should be used for, to dismiss a government that has been thoroughly discredited. This rewriting of history by a man who does not care about the future of either his own Party or this country is not particularly just to those men whom he sacked when he was leader of the Government. In rewriting the history books there is an obligation to be fair to those men who were sacked. The truth of the matter must come out eventually. 
I fear that if this matter is not rationally and carefully debated and the Leader of the Opposition is allowed to go on putting a viewpoint unchallenged because we do not wish to raise dissention, the one-sided argument will write lies into the history books that may be unfair to Australia and to some people. In spite of what the Leader of the Opposition says, I am reminded of the quotation: 
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ, 
Moves on: nor all thy Piety nor Wit Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line, 
Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. Is the Minister aware of the statement by  Mr J.  M. Tyler in his chairman's address to the Broken Hill South annual general meeting that 'In Australia the Commonwealth Government has now advised the company and the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission of its objective to have Queensland phosphate admitted to the Australian market?' Will the Minister tell the House whether it is the objective of the Government to admit this company to the Australian market. If so, on what terms? Will he indicate whether use of Queensland phosphate rock will at any stage be allowed to increase the price of fertiliser to the Australian farmer? 
I think too much is being made of this definition. After all, it is a general definition for general purposes. 
It is for general purposes within the terms of the Bill. The land councils are there as a bridge between 2 different communities, 2 different societies. We need a general definition to cover the people who will serve on those councils. The traditional Aboriginal owner is denned much more narrowly and quite separately within the same clause. The definition of a traditional Aboriginal owner will overcome the objections which have been made, save that one that nontraditional Aborigines may find their way onto the land councils. That is true. But there is a need for non-traditional Aborigines on those councils. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Macarthur. Does the devaluation increase the Australian price of imported products that receive protection? Does the combined effect of the tariff and the devaluation increase by about 80 per cent the effective protection to those industries which compete with goods that are coming in? Does this increase in costs affect farmers and other exporters? 
I also am a signatory to the report of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties and therefore I will not speak to the subject matter of the report. Obviously I agree with it. I can do no better than recommend to anyone who wishes to take up the subject a reading of that report. It was a type of inquiry that probably was not particularly suited to the parliamentary forum in that it was technical rather than political in nature. Nonetheless, the Committee dealt with a very serious problem. In some cases the results of the problem were nothing short of heart-rending and the problem of learning difficulty undoubtedly has deprived many people of an opportunity to enjoy our Australian society. 
The attitude of the Committee was bipartisan. I can give a ready example of that. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  described the problem of the definition of elitism. I envy him. I had that word written in my notes at one stage and, frankly, I crossed it out. I thought there was no way that I could explain to the House the problems of the definition of elitism without painting myself into a corner as a hopeless right-winger in the view of those who did not listen carefully to what I said. Sometimes there is an advantage in speaking from the Opposition benches and from the side of the Labor Party. I will overcome the problem simply by saying that I agree with every word said by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
There is a problem in deciding how resources will be allocated. A society allocates resources to some people in disproportionate amounts because they can provide things that society needs. There is no better example than the doctor about whom the honourable member for Fremantle spoke. The group of people with which we were concerned consisted of people at the other end of the scale, those who had difficulty in reaching a basic minimum standard that I think society should believe is the right of everyone. I refer to that minimum standard that will let people compete in society at a level where they can live reasonably happy lives, where they can have a sense of fulfilment, and where they will not feel that their lives have been pointless, fruitless and in vain. Obviously, competing in today's society is very difficult if you cannot learn simple arithmetic, simple reading, simple literacy and simple numeracy. How much of society's resources ought to be provided to bring children and adults with the more difficult learning problem up to that level where society will see them live reasonably full lives? 
That is the subject matter of this report. We have tried to decide how those resources can be better applied to fill these very minimum needs of individuals so that not only will they find employment but also they will find mates and some appreciation of the things that are around them. Many things are not understood- it might even be true to say that most things are not understoodabout the difficult problem of learning. We know the problem is widespread. We have no criteria against which to measure our success. It is essential that anything that is done- many things ought to be done- is evaluated carefully so that not only will we help some children in the immediate future but also we will build up knowledge with which we can help children in the more distant future. It is absolutely essential that populations be tested, that progress be carefully monitored and that the techniques by which this is done are studied. The process and technique of evaluation are inadequately understood. 
There is a problem of bad teaching and, I am afraid, bad teachers. I am glad that the report by  Dr Fitzgerald  also mentions that problem. We had one or two harsh things to say about some teachers. That is not to say that other teachers do not give to their profession in a manner and a degree that can bring only credit to themselves. It is a problem of bad parents, of bad environment and of bad luck. 
One question I have had asked of me since the report came down is: 'Where do we go from here?' In the first instance, the report is advice to the Parliament. It is advice to the Australian public. I went through the recommendations. I found that it was advice to no fewer than 23 different organisations involved with education-the 3 arms of government, the research institutions, the Schools Commission and many other organisations which have responsibility for the education of our children- including obviously, the State Education Departments. The advice m the report, if it is taken up- I hope and believe that it will be, as I did not sign the report idly - will be taken up piecemeal by many organisations. It will also be taken up over an extended period. It is my hope that the next Schools Commission report, for instance, will be influenced by the things that we said. It is my hope that we will be able to measure, when we look back at this time from 10 years hence, the progress that we have made. I thank the House. 
I wonder whether the Western Australian election has anything to do with the Australian Labor Party's interest in housing. 
I will tell the honourable member why it should not. Housing is an issue that affects the poor at all times- when there are elections and when there are not elections. The Labor Party's sudden interest in the subject leads me to be a little cynical. 
I remind the House of a couple of things. Firstly, the changes in the Commonwealth-State 
Housing Agreement result from recommendations of the Henderson poverty inquiry. I remind the House of the case of a man earning $600 a week, no less, who occupied a $25 a week house to the exclusion of people who were really needy. I remind the House of a Minister of this Parliament in a former government who occupied a State owned house also to the exclusion of the needy. I remind the House that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  some time ago suggested that it was demeaning for an educated person to do manual work. The honourable member just spoke at some length about people on a medium income. I remind the honourable member that welfare housing is for those who need it- the low income group. 
My purpose in rising today is to raise another matter that is troubling me. When I spoke to my wife and daughter last night I was greeted with some hilarity concerning the subject of the party room discussions of the Liberal and National Country Parties yesterday. Apparently one Ken Begg reporting for the Australian Broadcasting Commission suggested that there was an angry barrage of foot stomping at the meeting. I will quote what he said and then demonstrate to the House how far from the truth he was. 
It was neither a square dance nor a minuet, but certainly the tenor of the debate was in keeping with square dances and minuets. Ken Begg said: 
But the Cabinet was not entirely unsympathetic to the Country Party's problems and it was proposed in the party room today, that the 20 percent tolerance level should apply to Australia's 7 biggest electorates. 
This proposal was acceptable to the Cabinet but was not to the Liberal dominated party room which, I am told - 
He was told- greeted this proposal with an angry barrage of foot stomping. 
I do not think that Begg is a Scandinavian name but I really wonder whether  Mr Ken  Begg has some relationship to Hans Christian Andersen. 
-Or Enid Blyton. The level of the writing is more in keeping with Noddy. I am not prepared to say that this man was lying because frankly I do not know whether he was lying or whether what he said was merely the result of crass incompetence. But one way or the other, the Australian public has the right to expect better from reporters of an organisation that costs the Australian public not less than $130m each year. There is talk of investigative reporting. This is imaginative reporting. 
I know that it is not customary to discuss what has happened in the party room or to confirm or deny reports. However, this matter has gone to the extent that I am going to run the risk of denying it. It is quite true that the matter was discussed at some length. It is even true that shades of opinion were expressed. I suggest to the House that the only people who are a menace in the party room are not the ones who express opinions but those who waste time saying those things with which no one could disagree. This matter was discussed in a friendly atmosphere and with considerable good humour. It is a wonder that the laughter on at least 2 occasions could not be heard outside of the party room. Yet this man, for reasons of his own, sees fit to invent a story that came out of his own imagination and to put a point of view that apparently he might think would be damaging to the Coalition or get for him a headline or put him in good standing with those people who allot time on the news broadcasts. I do not know. As I say, I have no way of knowing whether what he did was deliberate and therefore a lie or whether he is merely incompetent. He suggested that the difference of opinion, which incidentally was not strictly on party lines, would cause some strain to the Coalition. I spent a large portion of yesterday afternoon working with my colleagues in the Country Party on the Government Members Rural Committee organising some investigations we want to make. All I can say is that if these gentlemen were nurturing feelings of great hostility to the Liberal Party and to myself they are all deserving of Oscars. 
My question which I address to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Wakefield. In his reply the Prime Minister referred to the excessive rate of change imposed upon industries by excessive wage rises and inflation and stated that protection policies should be and therefore could be employed to prevent the export of jobs overseas. He referred to high freight rates affecting Australian industry. Is the Prime Minister aware that  Mr Henderson,  the Director of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, states that the weight of the tariff burden is about $4,300m annually? 
It is $4,300m. Does the Prime Minister realise that most of that burden is ultimately borne by exporters? Is he aware that the high freight rates he spoke of by and large protect the competing import industries and penalise the exporting industries? Is the Prime Minister aware that the sector of the economy already making the greatest rate of adjustment is not in fact the manufacturing sector but the rural sector? Does the Prime Minister recollect telling the nation on Australia Day that the cargo cult must be banished from Australia? Is it his intention that competitive industries should go on paying increasing amounts of cargo to protected industries? 
I think it might be of interest to the Committee to look at the history of this clause. The Act was first enacted in 1902. There was a very minor amendment to the clause in 1905 which merely ensured that State electoral boundaries were considered in redistributions. The clause remained unaltered until 1972, when 4 amendments were made to it. Three might have been thought to favour rural areas and one might have been thought to favour city areas. The clause was again amended in 1 974. In 1 974 the Labor Government removed three of the 1972 amendments and retained the one amendment that favoured city areas. We are now returning to the same clause as served this Parliament and the people of Australia from 1902 to 1972, apart from the minor amendment in 1905.I am not one who believes that we ought to give heavy weightings to widespread areas. I believe that as far as is practicable each individual citizen in this country ought to have the same opportunity to influence the course of government in this country. 
I represent an electorate that covers both rural areas and city areas. It is the eleventh biggest electorate in the Parliament. Probably as a result I have as much experience as anyone of both areas. I can say with certainty that rural areas are the easier to represent. This is because there is a community of interest in rural areas- small shires, small towns, small newspapers and so on. People in rural areas are also much better informed than their city counterparts. They know more about the process of government. They are more likely to know who their member is and so on. 
However, there is another side to this story. The democratic process also requires that the 
Parliament of the people represent the views of the people. It is a fact- a fact beyond disputethat most Australian citizens believe that it is proper that these disparate areas have some additional assistance from their member. This is not an argument that personally impresses me a great deal. However we are reflecting the will of the people when we ensure that no large electoratethat is, one that is more than 5000 square kilometres in size-should have fewer people in it than an electorate that is of less than 5000 square kilometres. This legislation is a reflection of what most people in Australia would wish us to do. Can we argue that that is undemocratic? Obviously we cannot. 
I am confident that this clause will receive passage as it stands. There has been a considerable attempt by Labor Party speakers in particular to drive a wedge between the coalition parties. All I can say is that they would have to do a great deal better than they have done so far if they are to achieve that. The truth of the matter is that the Government Parties are agreed on this clause. There is no measure of appreciable disagreement between us. The nature of the Act is such that the variation from quota will only ever be small. This arrangement is acceptable to both Parties and they support the Government, I believe, without exception. 
We are debating a completely cynical proposed amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill which was moved by honourable members opposite. It was moved in response to wind they got of difference of view on this side of the House. It has no other purpose. It is completely inconsistent with the Opposition's past attitudes to price support schemes and it is inconsistent with real life. It is inconsistent with the Opposition's attitude to the dairy industry when it was in government. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  spoke about keeping growers above the poverty line. He knows better, if that is what he has in mind, than to support the amendment proposed by his Party. The method that the Opposition is proposing would be not only of exorbitant cost but also it would not achieve its stated end. If we are to keep growers in this industry above the poverty line the techniques of reconstruction and the income maintenance provisions that are available to the community at large are the only means by which we will keep growers, people who are now or have been in the apple industry, above the poverty line. 
This industry has long term serious problems. The Opposition is proposing cosmetic solutions. The outlook conference just completed detailed the depth of the problems and indicated that there would be no short term solution and probably no solution at all for the export apple sector.  Mr Bishop,  the  President  of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association, speaking about his industry, said: 
We do not deny the need for radical changes. 
He also said: 
The IAC report reflects a complete lack of optimism about the future of the industry, it ignores confirmed market potential, it proposes a costly, complex and ill-considered welfare system for individuals rather than product assistance to stabilise the industry itself . . . 
I gave the second quote because I did not want to be accused of quoting  Mr Bishop  out of context and of suggesting that he accepts the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations for the industry. I emphasise that he did accept the IAC's prognosis for the industry. He accepted that its assessment of the industry's future was accurate. The problems of the apple industry are these: The export sector is remote from its markets. That section of the industry that is catering for the Australian market is not in serious trouble. The industry is in a high labour cost country. Australian labour is very expensive and apple and pear growing are labour intensive occupations. The advent of controlled atmosphere storage has meant that the European apple crop can be kept from the season in which it is grown to the season in which it is eaten. It has meant that Europeans can store their apples through the winter months and that they do not need to buy what are to them expensive apples from remote parts of the world. 
The effect of delaying adjustment-which would be the result of accepting this proposed amendment- would be that people would be kept longer in this industry at around the poverty line or below it, that they will not adjust in their lives and that the industry of which they are part will not adjust, as has happened before in the dairying industry. The subsidies that were given on the price of dairy products were of no help to the dairy industry. All they did was delay the process of adjustment and make life tough for many dairy farmers. The subsidies meant that other dairy farmers could not become profitable and efficient. Those subsidies meant that dairy farmers produced high cost milk at no great economic benefit to themselves. We have the same situation in the apple industry. 
I should like the House to consider the cost of the price support that the export section of the apple industry is now afforded. In Tasmania the average amount of assistance afforded to an apple producer is no less than $14,034 a year. If that sort of money were applied to assisting him as an individual instead of supporting the price of his product it would go a very long way indeed. What sort of income does that assistance give him? It gives him an income of $6,000 a year. In other words he would be far better off if he could collect his subsidy and not grow any apples. What is more, other apple growers would also be better off because their production would shrink into the profitable domestic market. The notion that we can help the apple growing industry out of its troubles by more of that sort of thing is not real. It is not fair to the apple growers and it is not fair to the Australian taxpayer. 
Consider unemployment in the apple growing industry. What some people sometimes forget is that in raising that sort of money we also place a burden on other sections of the economy. That $14,000 must be taken from someone. In taking it from him it will not be applied to employment in his area. The shifting of resources to the apple growing industry by subsidising the price of apples does not create one jot of employment; it merely shifts it. Perhaps we should look at the levels of protection that are afforded the apple growing industry. The levels of effective protection vary State by State but they are high in 2 States- my own, Western Australia, and in Tasmania. Before anyone accuses me of waxing eloquent because I have no apple growers in my electorate I say that I do have an export apple growing industry in Moore. The effective levels of protection are 110 per cent in Western 
Australia and 341 per cent in Tasmania. It might be interesting to look at the levels of protection in the non-export States. We find that they are actually negative. The apple growers in the nonexport States to a small extent are subsidising apple growers in the export States. Their average level of protection is minus 9 per cent. This assessment of protection does not include any allowance for the effect of the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme which, of course, gives Tasmanian apples an advantage on the mainland market. This cannot go on. 
It is ironic that one of the troubles that the export apple industry faces is a very inefficient shipping and shipbuilding industry which is an example of another industry which we believed we could protect out of trouble. Not only did we fail to protect it out of trouble, but we also assisted other industries, including the apple industry, into trouble. The Industries Assistance Commission proposed what it called 'people orientated programs' to assist those growers who are now in the apple industry and those growers who may wish to leave it. They are the only programs that have any hope of being effective. To pose bogus solutions to this very real problem is not fair to anyone. 
I wish to take the opportunity to speak in this AddressinReply debate in small part about the process of government. The Westminster system has recently come in for some criticism in Australia. It is important therefore that we understand the system of government that we employ, in regard to its strengths and its weaknesses. It has many advantages. The monarch has independence and inspiration which would be hard to acquire from any other system. The responsibility of an executive that is within the parliament is unique to the Westminster system. The responsibility of a parliament that contains the executive is also unique to the Westminster system. Those who doubt those 2 propositions might consider the way the executive and the parliament in the United States have been at cross-purposes so often in the course of the history of that nation and how on occasion it has cost the United States quite dearly. 
The Westminster system has worked well. It has served us well but it does have a disadvantage and that is that the real decisions are not taken in the parliament itself. They are taken in cabinet, in the party room or caucus or in the bureaucracy. Parliament does not take decisions; it ratifies them. The decisions are taken away from the public view. This has some advantage and a real disadvantage. The advantage that I wish to mention is along these lines. It is said- I will not vouch for the veracity of the story but it serves as an example of what might happen if, in fact, it is not true- that the United States would never have had a Bl bomber except that the manufacturing company had managed to obtain contracts in no less than 48 out of 50 States. The Congressmen and senators felt bound to the B 1 decision. If in fact that is what happened it speaks ill of their system. If it is not what happened, knowing the way that constituents and politicians tend to behave, I think no member of this chamber would have difficulty imagining the situation. 
There are some advantages in taking the real decisions out of the glare of public scrutiny. However, it is a disadvantage that the real debate does not take place in front of the public. It seems to me that we come into this chamberhonourable members may disagree- and rather than conduct a reasoned give and take debate we tend to play at party games which we think will enhance the position of our party for the forthcoming election. It may or may not do so. This disenchants the public, but that is not what is really serious. The debate does not inform the public. There is another side effect. Because the public is not always informed as to the genuine issues their effect is not felt on us. That is the weakness of our system of government. It can be overcome. 
We have seen the development of a process of public inquiry that started in this country with the formation of the Tariff Board early in the history of the Federation. We now have a wide variety of these inquiring bodies. They vary a great deal and include such organisations as the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, the Heritage Commission, the Schools Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Law Reform Commission. There are others in embryo such as the Postal and Telecommunications Users Council and the Consumer Affairs Council. There are others that might have been, such as the Social Welfare Commission. The Social Welfare Commission went very wrong. I would argue that it went wrong because it was asked to do the wrong things. I intend outlining the sort of structure that I believe these advisory public inquiry bodies ought to have. Those who reflect on the history of the Social Welfare Commission will be able to see how, if I am right as to the structure that these bodies ought to have, the Social Welfare Commission was wrong as it was put forward originally. 
Reform has come to Britain, to British people and to those of us who have inherited the British traditions not so much from parliament but from the courts. It is the courts that have given us the great freedoms. They have ensured the freedoms of which British citizenry is justly proud and which it is rightly quick to defend. These advisory bodies which advise governments are in many senses advisory courts. They also protect the citizens from government. The judicial courts protect the citizen from abuse of the power of government. The advisory courts of which I speak tend to protect the people from unwise government, from decisions that might be perfectly proper, but which are not good government for one reason or another. These courts that gave us the great freedoms were in fact an informed elite outside the process of government and were very public. The courts, commissions and committees that advise the Australian Government have this essential thing in common with them. 
Debate interrupted. 
-In my speech last Thursday evening I think I made the points that the Westminster system had served Australia well but that it had a disadvantage that we should take care to understand. This disadvantage is that the Parliament tends to ratify decisions rather than to debate them and, as a result, the public is not informed of the decision making process of its governmental system. I pointed out that the debate was not taken before the public's eyes. 
I discussed the role of advisory bodies and how they had developed since shortly after Federation. I likened them to courts that considered not the abuse of the power of government but rather considered unwise government or inappropriate or inefficient government. I wish to discuss the nature that I believe these advisory bodies should have if they are to serve us best. Advisory bodies are a selected, informed elite outside the process of government that can motivate and evaluate the process of government. They can keep the public informed about the process of government. They have many advantages if we set them up in the best way. They can protect government from inappropriate pressure groups. They can protect pressure groups from inappropriate decisions. For instance, the rural lobby over the years has clamoured for a bounty on superphosphate. Yet, it has passed virtually without comment, at least until recent times, that there is a tariff burden that disadvantages it in a quite different manner- in fact disadvantages it to the order of somewhere about $2,000m per year compared with the superphosphate bounty that is worth only $60m a year to them. 
Advisory bodies can protect weaker groups in the community. For instance, the Schools Commission has pointed out the just claims of Catholic parochial schools. It has pointed out to the community at large that poor parents send their children to these schools and that they have a just claim on the public dollar in the same way as has the public education system. Advisory bodies thus inform the public as to what might be its real priorities if it understood the situation best. Advisory bodies are likely to inform Parliament and give rise to a somewhat more meaningful debate than we now have. Hopefully they inform the Parliament in such a way that we are less likely to indulge in the sort of banal inter-party games to which we sometimes descend. 
Advisory bodies can inform governments. Civil servants can dominate- in fact they often do dominate- Ministers. This is hardly surprising. Ministers are birds of passage. Civil servants are at the head or close to the heads of departments normally for much longer periods than is the case with Ministers. They can speak with an authority that it is difficult for a Minister of the Crown to muster. The civil service is a continuous, cautious and precedent-ridden body which is not likely to be innovative. 
We can do 2 things. We can continually retire off civil servants- I suggest that is not a practical solution- or, alternatively, we can question the advice of civil servants from a background of adequate knowledge. It would be a good thing if the productivity of the public sector came under adequate scrutiny. After all, it does not face the discipline of the free market place. I cannot see anyone making a takeover bid for Telecom Australia. It is not sufficient that that scrutiny come from junior bureaucrats themselves for they are hardly likely to bring down critical reports of their seniors. We must look outside the bureaucratic system if we are to expect an adequate evaluation of the effectiveness of the system. I suggest this is the essential nature that advisory bodies should seek to have. They should be independent of the government. Recently people were very worried because it was feared that the Industries Assistance Commission might come under government influence when sections of its servicing personnel were to be transferred to a government department. Inquiry has convinced me that in this case there is no real cause for concern. However, it is proper that the people who feel they depend on this advisory body should have been concerned because were the IAC to be influenced by the government of the day it would have been destroyed. 
We have only today had a fear that perhaps the Temporary Assistance Authority will not have to report to this Parliament in the same way as it has in the past and that the Government might be able to change customs rates and quantity restrictions without adequate opportunity for parliamentary debate. If that fear is well foundedI do not think it is- there would be something to be very worried about. The IAC and other advisory bodies, such as the Schools Commission, are the servants of the Parliament and not of the government and the political party in power. They report through the Parliament to the public. The advice of a department, because it is privy to the Minister and to the government of the day, is not subject to public criticism. Criticism by all who may wish to offer criticism is the time honoured proof of academic worth. It is the time honoured evidence that in fact a case is valid and ought to stand, as is the case with the results of decisions that flow from it. 
If the IAC or any other advisory body such as the Schools Commission is given a departmentlike role- in other words, it is given an executive function- it then will have its own policies of yesterday to protect, it will lose its independence and it will not serve the purely evaluative role that it should as a servant of this Parliament rather than of the government. Its reputation is its authority alone. If an advisory body is to report to the Parliament it depends for its sole sanction upon its standing with the public. That standing should be carefully preserved at all times. 
Appointments to those advisory bodies should be seen to be fair and should be seen to represent all those people who have an interest in the role of those bodies. For instance, appointments to the Schools Commission should be made on merit and not from one source of education interest, for instance, the public education sector or the private education sector. The bodies should have appropriate terms of reference. They should never be asked to report on those things on which they cannot make a judgment. They should not be asked to make a judgment on what are the needs of roads or education because to do so, given that all cakes are finite, they are then being asked to make a judgment on the needs of defence, social services and other matters that are not germane to their skills. 
Finally I would like to say something about the costs of these bodies since it has been suggested that this might be one place where a government might restrain its expenditure. We should very carefully keep them in proportion. The IAC costs annually some $8m. Protection costs Australian industry some $4300m each year. In other words, the cost of the IAC, the sole body that is publicly evaluating this protection, is 0.018 per cent of the protection itself. The Schools Commission administration costs are $2. 6m. The Commonwealth expenditure on schools in the last Budget was $549m. In other words, the Schools Commission costs 0.47 per cent of the moneys it is evaluating, even without taking into account expenditure on education in schools from other sources. I suggest that if we are seeking to save money it is very silly to talk of sacking the efficiency expert. 
-Before speaking on these 3 Bills, which have something in common, I wish to take up an earlier interjection. I am a little sorry that the previous speaker-the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)-  saw fit to hand me the couple of bouquets that he did because I had made up my mind to respond to the interjection before those bouquets were handed to me and I would not like it to be thought that I was in any way influenced by them. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  interjected as he was leaving the chamber that the honourable member for Swan had a safe seat, thereby implying that he could say what he liked on this subject. I have known the honourable member for Swan for a long time. I have agreed with him and disagreed with him, but I know from long experience that he speaks from what he believes and that he will be guided by his true beliefs. He speaks from principle. I happen to agree with him on this occasion, but I have not always done so. I find it objectionable that his motives in this matter have been impugned. 
The acceptance of reports of the Industries Assistance Commission is the first matter that these 3 Bills have in common. I congratulate the Government for accepting the IAC's recommendations. The IAC's advice on these matters is necessarily well informed because of the way in which it is assembled. It is done publicly and it is open to challenge. The Government should always make its political judgments on these matters in the light of the IAC 's advice. I put it to the Government that, on balance, on most occasions the IAC is likely to be correct. I congratulate the Government for substantially accepting the advice it has received on these 3 occasions from this well informed body. 
Another matter that these 3 Bills have in common is that they all provide for protection to industries by way of bounty. The IAC has chosen to recommend to the Government that the protection should be provided in this manner- a bounty- instead of the other ways by which it might have been provided, namely, a quantitative restriction on imports or a tariff on imports. The advantages of bounty over tariff and particularly quantitative restrictions are manifold. First of all, it spreads the cost of providing the assistance over more people. The cost of providing a bounty is borne by the taxpayer, in other words by the people who will ultimately benefit from the growth of the industry, maintaining the  status quo  of the industry or the slower rate of decline of the industry as may be the case. 
If it is good policy to protect an industry, it is surely good policy that the cost of that protection be borne by all Australians. It would be unfair if the high cost of protecting the tractor industry with tariffs were to be passed on to the farmer alone. He is already someone making adjustments to the changing economic circumstances at a greater rate than are most other people. It would leave him with the necessity to make an even greater rate of change. Since most farming industries but not all receive no nominal protection their protection is in fact negative. They pay to assist in providing protection for other less efficient or less competitive industries. It would be both unwise in economic terms and unfair to load the farming industry with the additional cost of protecting one of the farmer's tools of trade. 
It is easier to direct a bounty to the industry that needs protection. A bounty can be applied more accurately to the section of production that needs to benefit from the protection. There is then less risk of encouraging investment in places where it is not wanted and encouraging an industry to grow in one area when it is not even possible to achieve its survival in another. It is possible for a bounty more accurately to reach the portion of the industry that will require the protection. 
It is inherently unreasonable to protect an infant industry by any means that puts up costs to consumers. This is particularly relevant in relation to the Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Bill. If we were to protect automatic data processing equipment by tariff or quantitative restrictions it would raise the price of the goods protected. The protection would be paid for by the consumers of the goods and this presumably would reduce their consumption of those goods. Our infant industry would not be encouraged to grow, certainly not to the extent that it would be encouraged to grow by application of bounty. I have reservations about the all-wise government trying to pick growth industries, direct assistance to them and forecast what is likely to happen tomorrow. However if we are to do this, we might as well do it accurately and effectively. A bounty is far more likely than is a tariff to be accurate and effective. 
The most important advantage of a bounty is that it can be seen by those people receiving the assistance. Therefore the fact that it may be withdrawn is within their sight. Their investment decisions are likely to be influenced by the fact that they know they are getting a clear level of protection that is provided to them by the Australian taxpayer. The fact that he may be unwilling to go on paying this for ever must surely cross their minds occasionally. They are therefore less likely to invest capital in non-competitive areas. The visibility of the bounty is more likely to result in investment in competitive areas that will show net increases in our wealth than those that will show a net decrease in our wealth if you book against those activities the opportunity cost of the resources used. 
Of course there is a certain honesty about a bounty. It will make government more honest with the people's money. That is what was said about tax indexation in the Liberal Party policy speech for the last election. Exactly the same argument applies to bounty versus tariff as applies to the argument for indexed tax versus the tax that grows automatically with inflation. They are exactly the same arguments. A bounty makes government honest with the public's money. 
Two of the Industry Assistance Commission reports emphasise the fact that protective measures generally do not create employment. Two of the reports underlined disputes between industries- one receiving a benefit and one suffering from the loss of a benefit. Actil Ltd sought to have the benefit received by Universal Textiles Aust Ltd removed so that it could do better at UTA's expense. In fact a reduced quota on grey cloth would have removed employment from Hobart to Adelaide. That is all it would have done. What would have been the overall benefit of that? There was also a dispute between Ford on the one hand and Chamberlain and Harvester on the other that would have had exactly the same effect. It would have shifted the employment of those people making tractor cabs from one city to another. There would have been no net gain in employment. I support the Bills. The points I have raised are very important to ponder. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is there a need for the Industries Assistance Commission to report on the wheat industry by 14 May 1978? Have the commissioners been appointed for this inquiry? When are the hearings due to commence? 
-The member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations- Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines- have characteristics in common. Because they are our near neighbours- they are not our nearest neighbours; Papua New Guinea is that- we should do our level best to understand those characteristics and to shape our relations with them accordingly. The five ASEAN nations are all in some degree undeveloped. They have all in recent times experienced a considerable explosion in their work forces- a labour force explosion that was experienced in other countries in Asiamostly those countries north of the ASEAN countries- some years before. 
The ASEAN countries have little prospect but to use that labour force in the business of light manufacture and in industries that will inevitably compete with Australia. The people who have been dispossessed of their land in Thailand in particular are tending to concentrate around the major city of Bangkok. There is now little prospect of land reform. If these people are not to find employment the situation will be politically and socially explosive and, one way or another, we are likely to feel the repercussions in Australia. 
The labour forces of Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea grew earlier. They grew through the 1950s, 1960s and into the 1970s, but will slow down in the 1980s and 1990s. We are able to predict the growth of the labour force quite certainly because those people who will enter the labour force have already been born. We can predict with considerable accuracy what the labour force will be in years to come if we do not try to look too far ahead. 
The labour force growth rates in the ASEAN countries jumped after 1965. Growth rates are likely to remain at high levels- at as high as 2! per cent to 3V4 per cent per year- into the 1980s and 1990s and even into the next century. At this growth rate the labour force in South East Asia will virtually double between 1975 and the year 2000. For instance, Indonesia's labour force will jump from 45 million to 80 million, the Philippines labour force from 14 million to 28 million, Malaysia's labour force from 4 million to 7 million and Thailand's labour force from 20 million to 35 million. By contrast, Australia's labour force is expected to rise from 4 million to 5 million in that time. 
Malaysia's development plan and the development plan of most countries in the area must inevitably involve export manufactures. The development plans of Japan just after the war and later of Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong involved export manufactures. As the standard of living and the price of labour in Japan rose the labour intensive industries moved off-shore from Japan first of all into Korea and then into Taiwan and Hong Kong. Those countries became wealthy or wealthier, and gradually their high cost manufacturing is moving into the ASEAN countries. We can expect the ASEAN countries not only to be dependent on this manufacturing but also to provide goods that are by world standards cheap if they are produced in labour intensive industries. 
The Prime Minister said in the statement that we are debating that we have a significant interest in helping to ensure that ASEAN succeeds in its efforts to generate the economic and political stability for which it is striving. Indeed we have a considerable interest in ensuring just that. We are interested that our near neighbours should be secure non-totalitarian states that are well disposed towards Australia. We are interested that they do not develop a frustration that will inevitably make them unfriendly towards us and therefore less helpful to us in both a political and economic sense. We are interested in trading with them because it can be to our mutual benefit. Surely there is no one who will deny that ultimately trade must balance; that a country cannot go on selling more than it buys and that if we wish to sell Australian goods we must inevitably buy goods from overseas. Those propositions are axiomatic. 
Australia has enormous opportunities to sell to its near north. However, in recent times the trade balance has tended to move against the ASEAN countries. In 1966-67 the trade gap- the difference between what we sold to the ASEAN countries and what we bought from them- was $83.9m. By 1975-76 that gap had grown to $342.4m. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short table relating to trade. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Will he please inform the House when he will be able to announce details of the proposed assistance to the beef industry? 
I can agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  when he says that there is a limit to what governments can do in the totality of economic policy. But just what that limit is and how far we ought to go and how we ought to define it is the matter I wish most to discuss. However, before I do so I shall take up something said I think by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. He seemed to resile from his statement that one man's pay rise is another man's job. I am not certain whether he meant by that statement that marginal wage rates did not affect marginal employment. The honourable member shakes his head; I am glad of that. Surely there is an interaction- it is probably not a one for one interaction- between wage rates and employment. 
I took up that point because, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports expressed it, it was not clear to me whether he intended that it should be the whole explanation. I for one would not suggest that it was. Any government faced with managing the present economic situation would have difficulty in drafting a budget. The deficit would of necessity be a problem; levels of taxation, because of the disincentive effect, would also necessarily be a problem. A government of any colour would face that problem, although different governments might see the problem at a different level. 
I suggest that part of the problem stems from the nature of the process of government and the tendency for politicians to pretend that they can offer a free lunch. That they cannot do. In fact, this tendency of politicians to compete for power by trying to be nice to everybody is the cause of much of the economic problem that we have and much of the budgetary problem that we have. There is much argument about the level of government intervention and what that level ought to be. I agree with the Opposition to the extent that what is important is not merely the 
Quantum of government intervention but also le nature of it. However, when I drew my line as to what would be the appropriate nature of it, I think I would part company markedly with my socialist colleagues opposite. The type of intervention that has been occurring, for instance, has been costing the wheat industry a great deal. Maybe there are some unmeasured amounts, but a calculation is $ 1,250m since 1950. The quantum of government activity did not increase. 
Nonetheless, government intervention in the market place and government intervention in the processes of the economy are the sorts of government intervention that I would sooner not see. I would sooner see the market forces determine the flow of resources in the community. I believe that those market forces are likely to do it more accurately and with less serious side effects. 
I return to the estimates under consideration. If we are to reduce public expenditure and if we are to reduce taxation- those two things go together since ultimately governments can spend only what they collect by borrowing or by taxationwe have to look at the major areas of public expenditure. We cannot pretend that that exercise is taboo, that those major areas are not areas for consideration when contemplating a reduction in government expenditure. The major areas of government expenditure are as follows: Defence, 8.7 per cent; education, 8.8 per cent; health, 10.5 per cent; social security and welfare, 27.2 per cent; and States and local government, transfer of payments, 21.8 per cent. Collectively expenditure in those areas add up to 77 per cent of the total. Those areas, with the possible exception of defence are what have been termed the motherhood areas. I am not suggesting that there ought to be cuts in expenditure on defence. I suggest, however, that we ought to be looking very hard at the other four areas. 
If we are not to reduce expenditure in those other four areas which provide benefits that people need- I refer to education, health, social security; and much of the money provided by way of States grants goes into those areas- we have to be prepared to take away benefits from those who are not in need. There is no option but to do that, otherwise public expenditure will not be reduced. We have to distinguish between the needy and the greedy, and that is a distinction which governments have not been prepared to make. We have to stop spending money on those people who could do things for themselves. We have to stop pretending that we are in some way conferring a favour upon them, because all we are doing is taking funds from them and giving them back to them. We should direct funds to the needy in the public expenditure areas of health, education and welfare. 
In the area of medical care, might it not be possible to provide the sort of insurance system that picks up the major expenses but which does not pick up the minor ones in such a way that we do not require an enormous and costly administrative machinery? Might it not be possible to have a system which does not provide the same temptation for the hypochondriac to use up the system? Doctors would not have the same temptation to extract more than their just due. One of my objections to the system is that it is impossible to measure their just due. Might it not be possible to provide education in such a way that people are assisted with education if they need financial assistance, but not assisted otherwise? Might it not in the long run be possible to provide a voucher to poor people? Initially, in the shorter term might it not be possible to look at tertiary education, which is available to an elite few, and recognise that this is provided by the majority of people in the community, who do not have access to it; that it is paid for by the truck driver and the shearer? Might not those people owe in some way at least a proportion of that cost of education to the truck driver and the shearer? Might not tertiary education allowances be a loan and not a grant? 
Might we not look at pensions? A wealthy lady whom I know lives in a penthouse but is at the age at which she receives a non-means tested pension. Is it sensible that we tax her and then pay it back to her? It is not sensible. There is no point in handing out government welfare benefits to those who do not need them. If we do so, and continue to do so, two things will happen: We will never provide sufficient assistance to those who genuinely are needy and we will destroy the spine of the whole community. We will tax the pants off them, and the incentive to do more will thus at least be lessened. Further than that, there is no penalty for people not doing what they can for themselves. If the government will carry one's burdens, what then is the incentive to pick up those burdens? In controlling this government activity on behalf of people we will meddle in everybody's life, laying down common rules until we produce that brave new world in which all people are the same. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of the Industries Assistance Commission report tabled in this House last Thursday which states, inter alia, that one-twelfth of our inflation is due to rises in the price of motor vehicles, and in view of  Mr Okawara's  statement of the same day to the effect that Japanese beef quotas were maintaining Japan's local industry irrespective of the fact that lower priced imports were available to the Japanese consumers, will the Minister investigate the opportunities that may exist to reduce the rate of inflation in both countries by trading more beef against more cars? 
I suggest that the Opposition, in bringing this discussion of a matter of public importance before the House, might be displaying even more than its usual degree of cynicism. If in fact the independence of the Schools Commission was under some threat a case for bringing forward a matter of public importance could be made and would be a suitable subject for debate. But this independence clearly is not under any threat. I suspect that the sole reason for the debate is to seek a platform from which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  might pretend to the public at large that it was possible to provide all things from a public budget, to satisfy every demand that might be made, merely by labelling it a 'need', a word which unless related to some objective criterion has no meaning whatsoever. 
The cynicism of the Opposition's proposal is underlined by the fact that the Labor Party in 1975 undertook almost identical actions to the action which it now criticises. In 1975, the Labor Party put down guidelines for the Schools Commission. At the same time it suspended triennial funding and increased funds to private schools. At that time, I was a member of the then Opposition and I am on record as supporting the Government of the day in the action that it took. That is still my view. But the present Opposition has changed its view- or has it? Is it merely throwing cynical and unfounded verbiage at this House in the hope that someone will believe that the Opposition is some magic fairy who will provide all for the asking? This cannot be done. The Labor Government pretended that it could be done for 3 years but it failed most dismally. 
I will read two paragraphs from the report of the Schools Commission recently tabled in this House. Paragraph 1.3 states: 1 .3 The Labor Government decided on a 'pause in the triennial progression and authorised a one year program for 1976 which confined recurrent expenditure to an amount which would maintain existing standards in real terms, deferred new initiatives and reduced capital expenditure. The Government asked the Commission to submit a further report within those guidelines - 
Note the term- . . . recommending how the total of $465 m to be available in 1976 should be spent. The Commission did this in a short report issued in October 1975 which the Government of the day accepted. This decision was endorsed by the subsequent Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
Paragraph 1.4 states: 1.4 Apart from the Labor Government deciding on a one year program for 1976, it set in train another development. Formal financial guidelines were to be developed and communicated to the various education commissions each year. The assumption was that the guidelines would define the general financial limits within which the commissions would prepare reports and the Schools Commission would receive its guidelines before it undertook the consultative process with systems, schools and organisations. This proposal was endorsed by the new Liberal-National Country Party Government which also introduced the concept of a 'rolling triennium' within which the Commission would report . . . 
That is what the Schools Commission said about the actions of the previous Labor Government. Those actions were correct actions and, as I have already stated, I supported them at the time. The independence of the Schools Commission was not in any way affected by those guidelines. The independence of the Schools Commission depends on its ability to report on those aspects that it sees fit to report on irrespective of whatever other parameters it must take into account in any report that it makes. Its independence also depends on its ability to put down its version of the best breakups of education funding. That is the guarantee of its independence. The guarantee is its right to make its own report and it has that right. Its guarantee also is the right and the obligation to have that report made public and tabled in this Parliament. Those are the tests and guarantees of the independence of the Schools Commission, or for that matter of any other advisory commission of this Government. Its test is the public nature of its report and the scope of that report. 
That it should be required to make a report within the range that a government feels it can finance, within the range that a government feels is appropriate for reasons of social management or community standards, is irrelevant to that right and that obligation to make its own judgment and that judgment has been made by the Schools Commission. It has made a report recommending a different breakup of funds from the one that the Government has said it would adopt. It has put down its best set of proposals, as it sees them, and as it is perfectly entitled to do. It has demonstrated its independence. I assure honourable members that it has not altered the Government's proposal to a great extent. The Commission has recommended an increase in the Commonwealth contribution in respect of recurrent funding by a mere 1.1 per cent of the Commonwealth funding. That is a mere 0.077 per cent of all funding or $77 in $100,000. Its independent report differed- but, oh, by so little. In the capital area it has recommended an increase in the Commonwealth share of the funding by 2.4 per cent of Commonwealth funds or by 0.72 per cent or $72 in $ 10,000 of all the funds that are available. The Schools Commission has demonstrated its independence. It has recommended differently, however marginally different that recommendation was. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the table that I have just described to the House. 
-The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  took the Committee down some paths that were of a technical nature and ones that frankly I would sooner leave to the teaching technicians. However, he raised one subject with which I would like to be associated. He spoke kindly and correctly of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  He spoke perhaps as though he believed that there might be an election in the offing. I would not know anything about that. However, just in case there is, I take the opportunity to associate myself with those remarks. The  Hon.  Kim Beazley has been a great parliamentarian. He has made a considerable contribution to education. He has inspired people in education. I have not always agreed with every move that he has made. I do not believe that everything he did was the result of his own choice. He was concerned not only with the quantity of education and spending on education but also with quality in that field and for that I believe he will be remembered. 
I wish now to refer to two points raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr 
Lionel Bowen). The honourable member raised two broad points. He decried the fact that there was not continuing real growth in education and he depreciated the additional funds that had !one into the private education sector. Let us look at the question of real growth. The Schools Commission is a body which is especially skilled in advising the Government and, for that matter, the Parliament and the public, on priorities within education. It is not skilled in advising on the cut-up of the total Budget. It is in no position to say that we should have less defence expenditure and more education expenditure. It is not even in a position to say that we should spend less on universities and more on schools. What it is skilled in doing is providing the Government with advice within the schools area. It is, like the Industries Assistance Commission and the tertiary commissions, an advisory body. It puts down independent advice and its advice is independent to the government of the day. It is sheer nonsense to suggest that any such body can determine needs in isolation. To say that so much must be spent on education is to say that so much will not be spent in some other area. 
If expenditure on education, or any other area for that matter, is to go on growing in real terms at a faster rate than the economy itself is growing, of course, other areas must decline. Expenditure in some areas will increase and in others it will decline; that is true. In recent years education has increased its share of the gross domestic product It cannot expect and should not expect to go on doing so indefinitely, because if its share grows at a rate faster than the economy itself grows, it will be taking an ever greater share and leaving an ever smaller share to be allocated to other areas. Incidentally, there is a limit to the rate of growth that any organisation can encompass. I submit that in the education area an attempt to achieve too great a rate of growth in the 1970s has resulted in unnecessary and considerable wastage. 
Let us look at the additional funds which have been provided in the area of private education. Section 26.3 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights states quite unequivocally that there is a right of parents to decide the type of education that their children should receive. I presume that right applies and ought to apply irrespective of the wealth of the parents. It does not state that children of wealthy parents will have the right to go to independent schools, to church schools or to schools that demand fees. The cost of educating a child at such schools is not met entirely from the public purse. In fact, in this country it is met only partially from the public purse. It is a complete fallacy to suggest that the children of wealthy parents attend private schools. 
Not even in the main. I suggest that if the honourable member believes that he ought to read Karmel on the subject. He ought to read particularly what Karmel had to say about some of the Catholic schools located in depressed areas of cities. 
Many children of poor parents attend even level 2 schools. I am not speaking about level 1 schools, because there are none in Western Australia. But many children of poor parents attend level 2 schools. I will tell honourable members how they come to attend these schools. Some parents believe that their children ought to have a religious education. Some parents believe that the private education system provides a better grounding in the three Rs. I know of one such case which I cited in the House a few days ago. A fireman has two children attending a level 2 school. That man is on a very limited salary. He undergoes considerable financial difficulty but, as far as I can gather, he accepts that very willingly. He certainly accepts voluntarily sending his children to that school because he believes that they will be better educated. 
The parents of some children live in isolated areas and frankly do not have the option but to send their children to schools which involve the paying of fees, even if the fees paid are as a result of a charge made by a government hostel. There are parents whose children for some reason or other do not meet the middle stream. There is a disproportionate number of children with learning difficulties in independent schools because those schools are prepared to cope with the difficulties of those children. The parents in all those groups send their children to independent schools not because they want to pay those fees but because they believe they should pay those fees for the sake of their children. I submit that is a decision which is best left with the parents. I submit that a person who is taxed to provide education, amongst other things, is entitled to the same consideration from those taxes, irrespective of where he sends his children to school. 
It may be reasonable to discriminate between parents on the basis of wealth; it is not reasonable to discriminate between parents because of the choice they make in relation to the education of their children. Sometimes it is a choice which is not within their control at all but which is in fact forced upon them. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It concerns international terrorism. What stage has the United Nations reached in its consideration of this issue? What action is this Government taking in the United Nations to assist in reaching international agreement? 
I should like to challenge what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said in relation to the distribution in Western Australia. I am not certain exactly what way he would have had the boundaries drawn to preserve this so-called community of interests, particularly bearing in mind that the existing boundaries were also a requirement that the commissioners ought to take into consideration. The story that has been put around by the Labor Party in Western Australia is that Canning and Moore were rural seats and that, therefore, it would be inappropriate for suburbs such as Lockbridge to be included within them. I suggest that the dormitory suburbs that are to be included in Canning and Moore are not very different from those that are already within them. In any case, either before or after the redistribution, only about 20 per cent of the people in those electorates have any direct connection with the land. 
Question put. 
That the motion  (Mr Macphee's)  be agreed to. 
I wish to comment on only one or two aspects of the Australian Rural Bank Bill. The measure has considerable interest for rural people. It comes before the House and the people amid expectations of rural people, some of which, unfortunately, are not completely realistic. I wish to quote from the policy document of the Liberal and National Country parties brought out prior to the last election. I wish to do that lest anyone take seriously the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The policy document reads: 
Interest payable would be at bank interest rates for medium term loans and marginally better for long term loans. 
It is envisaged that the bank would function by re-lending through existing financial institutions but may be involved in direct lending in some instances. 
The Liberal and National Country parties made it quite clear before the last election what they had in mind in relation to their proposal to set up the Rural Bank. I wish to say something about why they had that sort of proposition in mind, why they are legislating to implement that sort of proposition, and why they are not legislating for substantially subsidised interest rates. What happens if at any time an average interest rate must be struck for purposes of economic management? I remind the House that the interest rate is a major tool of economic management. If the interest rate is to be reduced in portion of the credit market surely it is axiomatic that it must be increased in the remainder of the market if that same average is to be struck. If interest rates were to be reduced for the rural sector, they would necessarily have to increase in relation to housing, industry and so on. 
The second reason why it would be undesirable to have a substantially lower interest rate for portion of the economy is that it would be built into the cost of that portion. It would happen in this way. These borrowings in the main would be used to purchase land and if the returns from that land were enhanced by reducing the cost of money that purchased the land, the price of that land would rise accordingly. In other words, that interest rate would be capitalised and the amount of money which a farmer would have to find to service that debt would be very close to what it would have been at the higher interest rate. Nothing has been done to make life easier for that farmer. 
Unfortunately in interest rates, as in most other matters, there are no easy free lunches. The terms and conditions under which loans will be made have been deliberately left flexible so that the lending under the auspices of the rural bank can take up the genuine credit gaps. The purpose of the rural bank is to fill what is perceived as a credit gap which has arisen because the existing lending institutions were not suitable to the demands of the market; and particularly we are thinking of the longer term loans and property purchases. The rural bank will facilitate lending, particularly in the longer term. It will not overcome all problems as has been said already. For instance, it will not assist in the situation where the income of the enterprise will not service further borrowings and the most substantial problem in rural areas and among rural people is not inadequate access to funds but inadequate ability to service further borrowings and to expand the business. I, therefore, have no hesitation in supporting the Bill as it stands. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 

 Tuesday, 8 November 1977 

Clause 3. 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- 'primary production' means production resulting directly from- 
the cultivation of land; 
the maintenance of animals or poultry for the purpose of selling them or their bodily produce, including natural increase; 
fishing operations; or 
forest operations, and includes the manufacture of dairy produce by the person who produces the raw material used in that manufacture; 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that at page 23 of the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry the Government promised to continue the long-term review of the tariff initiated in 1971 with a view to making progress as quickly as possible consistent with economic circumstances? Is the Minister aware that industry reviews under that program take, on average, two years to complete? When will the Minister make the remaining references to the Industries Assistance Commission so that the Government in due course may honour its commitment? 
-This legislation was introduced in the last Parliament. It lapsed with the rising of the House. It now comes to us again in almost identical form. In that period we have had any amount of time to consider what is in it. A lot of extravagant statements have been made about it, not least in the chamber this afternoon. The Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill 1978 in essence requires by law the Industries Assistance Commission to continue some practices that it was in the main already undertaking on the request of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The Industries Assistance Commission, in the words of the second reading speech, is required in its reports to report on all relevant information to enable fully informed decisions to be made by the Government. That, I believe, is unexceptional except for one rider that I would put on my endorsement of the provision in the Bill covering that aspect. I have a fear that the Industries Assistance Commission will be at times required to report on things that are not germane to its special skills. I think that that would be inappropriate. If the IAC left the economic area the advice given might not be the best available to the Government. What is more, if it were to make a mistake in non-economic judgment that it is required to make, the error may be used to discredit the Commission. The Minister in his second reading speech states: 
I emphasise that the changes will not compromise the independence of the Commission.  1 agree with the Minister. The changes will not compromise the independence of the Commission. 
They do not change the independence of the Commission. 
I will come to that. A requirement that has exercised the minds of speakers from the other side of the House is that the Minister may direct the Commission as to the priority it should observe in having regard to its policy guidelines in the performance of its functions. It would compromise the independence of the Commission if the Government were to say that the Commission would not report on a certain matter. But the Government cannot say that. The Commission can be required to report in such a way that any one of the guidelines is taken into any level of account in any report that it makes. The Commission can still say that the consequences of a line of action on which the Minister required it to report- bearing in mind the parameters the Minister laid down- are excessively costly. It can still point out that the level of protection this year would need to be X per cent, the following year X plus so much and the year after that X plus so much. The Commission could go on and point out to the public through this Parliament the dire consequences of accepting the Government's line. That is the element, the nature and the requirement of its independence. Were it not able to do so, I assure the House that I would be extremely upset. In the closing stages of the Minister's speech he gave an important undertaking which I would not like anyone to forget. He said: 
Temporary assistance will not, therefore, be provided in such a way that it effectively removes the need for industries to adapt to changing circumstances, rather it will be provided so as to allow industries to take appropriate action to adapt to such changes. 
The Industries Assistance Commission is required to keep that fact in mind at all times as is the Temporary Assistance Authority. If the Government accepts the advice that flows in those circumstances we will not go too far wrong. 
I asked a question in the House two days ago concerning reference to the IAC of the remaining references in the continuing review of the high cost industry. I asked when the reference would be made. When the review is finished we can at least take a few slow steps- it should take 20 years- to restructure Australia's industry. If we keep stepping in the wrong direction we will never ever restructure Australia 's industry. I was told by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs that the references would not be sent to the Commission because the industries under reference would experience a slackening of confidence. I asked at what time a reference could be made to the IAC for an industry that knows it is receiving very high levels of protection and therefore is, prima facie, uncompetitive without affecting confidence in that industry. At the same time we cannot refuse to make the reference without affecting the confidence in those industries that depend upon the products of the highly protected industry as inputs to their own industry. 
In the Governor-General's Speech it was asserted- I believe correctly- that we have made considerable progress towards economic recovery. Inflation has been halved. Investment is substantially up when compared with the same quarters for the preceding year. Surveys of business confidence indicate that we have taken some of the steps up the hill to economic recovery. The record is not bad at all when we consider that we went into the economic trough later than other member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and, on the evidence of the lead indicators, we are coming out of it faster than all the OECD countries with the possible exception of one. 
I think under the circumstances it is a little unreasonable to suggest that a reference which will take two years to complete should not be made to the IAC. On the other hand, things are not all bad on the protection front. Let me refer to a letter from the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council. The letter has been made public. I will read, for the benefit of honourable members, the paragraph concerning tariffs and import quotas. The letter came from the office of the  Deputy  Prime Minister in response to a letter from the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council. It states: 
I see little that I can add to the comments I made on this subject in my address to the Australian Farmers ' Federation on 19 October 1977, and of which you are aware. I summed up our views then by saying that it was the Government's policy, and certainly the policy of the National Country Party, that we should make progress in the direction of generally lower tariff levels, and that this objective must be pursued with increasing resolution as Australia emerged from its current economic difficulties. 
I said further that it would be my Party's aim to ensure that this objective was pursued with determination and that if we saw signs that there was any loss of enthusiasm or watering-down of the commitment, then we would be making it our business to see that those departures from the proper course were corrected. 
I accept the need for short-term policies to he consistent with longer-term objectives so that structural adjustment will be aided rather than inhibited, but I also take the view that tariff reform and structural adjustment should be related to the capacity of the economy to accommodate such changes. 
Your proposal for the use of direct subsidies rather than tariffs or import quotas in particular circumstances is one which merits further consideration, by both politicians and Government officials. 
Another paragraph of the letter referred to other matters but then the Deputy Prime Minister had this to say: 
I support provision of assistance to the rural sector to compensate for the effects of the tariff protection afforded to other sectors. 
Apparently, the Minister accepted the estimates of the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council on what that support would cost. The Deputy Prime Minister further stated: 
As I have said before, we must pursue the objective of generally lower tariff levels and, while that is occuring, industries which must cany the burden of tariff protection should be assisted by compensatory measures. 
This letter was written in response to work conducted by the AWGC which suggested that the tariff compensation necessary to do what the Deputy Prime Minister has suggested would be in the order of $2,000m a year. Any notion that this House could budget for a sum of that magnitude is quite unreal. I think that the commitment of the Deputy Prime Minister to the unwatered.down progress towards lower tariffs is an extremely important step. The reason most people fear a reduction in tariffs is employment. Absolutely no one I know is suggesting that they should be reduced in a rabid manner. Tariffs should be reduced only at a very gradual rate. The fears of those people who do not want any reduction in tariffs- in fact they advocate higher tariffs- are mostly related to the question of unemployment. It has been suggested in two recent reports of the Industries Assistance Commissionthe most recent report on the motor vehicle industries and the report on the textile inquiries- that the effect of tariffs and other barriers to a free flow of goods in and out of Australia is not to enhance employment opportunities but, on the contrary, to lessen them. This should not surprise us when we think about the matter. If we protect high cost industries the goods of those industries must necessarily cost more to the people who consume them. Therefore, these people who buy those goods will have less to spend on the goods manufactured by other industries, more competitive industries. It also means - 
I do not want to put zip into it. I want to give the honourable member time to listen. It also means that the cost of these high cost goods, through the wage indexation process, will be passed on through higher wages to all industries, including the more competitive industries. So the more competitive industries necessarily must be caught in a profit squeeze. The resources that might have flowed to those industries- for example, through new investment and sales they might have made- will be made respectively within and from the highly protected industries. 
So we have a relative growth in the uncompetitive industries at the expense of the more competitive industries, which is another way of saying that we will produce less- that our gross domestic product will be lower. We will be poorer. Some people have argued: Yes, but that does not necessarily cause unemployment. I submit that those people have assumed a perfect labour market in which the price of labour would fall with any fall in the gross domestic product or would rise more slowly because the gross domestic product was rising more slowly. But if on the other hand wages are sticky on the lower side and will not fall- with an indexation process I do not see how the situation can be other than thatthen anything that diminishes the size of the total wealth we produce diminishes employment opportunity. Therefore any attempt to restrict trade diminishes employment opportunity in Australia. It must necessarily be so. 
I am not saying that there is not a substantial cost in making change itself. Of course there is. If we want to move resources rapidly from one place to another, they will not immediately find a new home or a new useful employment. We can make our changes only slowly. Let no one believe that we create employment by raising trade barriers. In fact, we lessen our employment opportunities. Very gradually, but always stepping in the right direction, we ought to tackle the task of lowering those trade barriers. 
It is with considerable pleasure that I follow the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  in this debate. The speech we have just heard from him is the speech of a man who understands the meaning of the word 'liberal'. It was very much a speech in defence of the pluralist society and of individual choice. I think it advocated policies which, if adopted, will lead this nation to greater aggregate wealth and greater opportunity to provide greater wealth for those who really are needy. The analysis of the taxation system that he presented to the Parliament is relevant to the things that I intend to say.  His  analysis of the vices of a democratic parliament that always tries to be over-popular, and hang the cost, also is relevant to the remarks I intend to make. In the  Economist  many years ago some wise soul wrote: 
The doctrine of the safety net to catch those who fall has been made meaningless by the doctrine of fair shares for those who are quite able to stand. 
We have come no longer to debate whether social welfare ought to be directed to the needy and how we ought to do this, but to take as established the notion that social welfare is a universal right that should be paid to everybody, irrespective of need. If we do this, if we accept it completely and if the present trends continue, inevitably we will pay a dreadful price, and the greatest price will be paid by the most needy. The reasons why the 'universal right' approach has been adopted by many- many whose intentions are indeed for the best- are not all unreasonable. They are overwhelmed by more important reasons that argue that we should apply social welfare to need. The dignity of the recipient is probably the most quoted reason for adopting the universal right approach. There are memories of the 'poor laws' and of the unnecessary, extreme and hard-hearted discretion that needlessly withdrew the dignity of the recipients of welfare assistance, much of which was in kind. It is not necessary to behave in such a way that dignity is withdrawn if welfare is applied to need. I will come back to that. 
There is the political sophistry that government can in some way give the people what it has not first taken from them. That is nonsense. The honourable member for Diamond Valley has dealt adequately with that subject. It concentrates the electorate's attention on the benefit and does not identify the cost. Governments therefore become popular. They accept the argument of a person that he has paid taxes all his life and is therefore entitled to such and such a benefit, and do not point out that the person can receive that benefit only of he in fact pays even more taxes. Governments take the money out of his left pocket and put it back in his right or vice versa. There are compelling reasons why we must adopt a needs approach and direct our social welfare of all kinds to those who need the succour of the community. Probably the most important single reason is that it is only if we direct public expenditure to those who need it that those who need it will receive sufficient assistance. It is important that we take note of what has happened in countries like Britain which have universal pensions and which have found it necessary to apply a means test so that no less than  2VA  has cent of the British pensioners receive another pension- a means tested pension. Britain had to do that because it is the only way in which it could even approach catering for the needs of the needy. No country in the world has managed to provide universal pensons without later going back to means testing at least portion of them. 
I believe that it is true. 
I have done some research on the matter. Professor Downing - 
Just listen for a moment. Professor Downing's research in the Judah Cohen Memorial Lecture, which was a carefully researched paper, stated categorically that that was the case. If honourable members opposite prove me wrong by citing one case in the world, I care not. It will not destroy that argument. The fact is that the overwhelming situation is that it has been found necessary to supplement general pensions with means tested benefits of some sort. A second reason why it is necessary to provide the benefits of the community to those who need them and those people alone is that the additional taxes have a very damaging effect on the needy. Either we take those additional taxes from the rich and poor alike, which is clearly regressive and which will bring about a situation in which we are taxing a large family with modest earnings to provide a pension for a wealthy widow who is quite capable of attending to her own needs, or we tax the rich alone- we would have to tax them at very high levels- in order to hand the moneys back to them. That would remove their discretion and waste considerable effort to what end? 
The high taxes destroy incentive. If a government imposes taxes that are too high it will encourage people to rely on the government because the rewards that are left to their discretion are inadequate. Over and above that, because they knew that someone else will do the job for them in like measure to the amount of discretionary income that is left to them, many will say: 'Why put in the extra effort?' We ought to ponder why this country's growth rates are as low as they are. A government removes the rights of people to make decisions for themselves every time it decides that it will take money from them and determine how best to spend that money. The government is in effect saying it should provide a pension for them at such and such a time in life and that they will not have the discretion to decide where and when they will spend it. 
If I caught the interjection correctly, the honourable member is referring to subsidies to industry. The same argument applies to industry. It so happens that at the moment I am discussing welfare benefits. 
I would. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated before he went to the people the last time, and the time before, that he wished to return discretion to the taxpayer. That is a very liberal philosophy and policy. It prevents the needless formation of a mammoth civil service that is enormously costly to run in order to produce an end which, in the most charitable interpretation of events, would be the same as a taxpayer might produce for himself. But it is far more likely that it will be thoroughly inefficient, not merely because it is cumbersome and large and is a bureaucracy but because the needs of individual people vary enormously. It is not possible to write one set of rules that will meet the needs and desires of each and every one of us. It is far better and more efficient and the nation's resources will provide far greater succour and joy to the citizens of the nation if they themselves decide how they wish to spend their resources upon themselves. The variety of wants of individual people are extraordinarily wide. Why not leave the discretion with those people? 
I have made it perfectly clear that the whole aim is to provide sufficient resources for those people who do not have sufficient money. Interjections like that are inane in that they rest on the notion that governments can produce something out of nothing. There is no way that any government on earth can do that. It is by pretending that that can be done, because it may be politically popular, that the Budgets, of many other countries in the Western world and not only of this country are led into a crisis situation. General principles are of no value unless we can apply them to particular scenes. Applying this general principle to the Australian scene, let us look at what we face inevitably in the near future. We have reason to continue to reduce public expenditure. Let us look at that. We have a Budget deficit in excess of $2,300m. It will almost certainly be somewhat higher than that. That is a substantial proportion, indeed about 2.5 per cent, of our gross domestic product. Last year it was 3.36 per cent of gross domestic product. The figure is coming down, and that is good because many things depend on it. 
Let us look at the situation we face in connection with the coming Budget. I am glad that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is at the table. We have the full year effects of standard rate taxation. No doubt the Treasurer has directed his mind to the problems that that will involve. He will no doubt wish to reduce the Budget deficit further. Amongst other things, the control of interest rates depends upon the control of the deficit. We will wish to control the money supply so that the situation does not become inflationary. Yet we have a problem built into that. No doubt we would make further tax reductions if we could. Some tax reductions are built into things to which we are committed. The biggest cost to revenue will flow from standard rate taxation, but the abolition of estate duty and gift duty will also be costly. 
Looking ahead to the next Budget, possibly growth will give us an added advantage of about- perhaps the Treasurer will agree with me on this- $600m. That is not enough. It does not provide the sort of money that is needed. So we will have to look at the area of further reductions in expenditure. 
I put it to honourable members that we have no option but to adopt the principle which I outlined in the early stages of my speech. We are not prepared to take away the succour from the needy; therefore we must take it away from those who are not needy- perhaps from the greedy. We cannot afford to ignore the areas of health, education, welfare and welfare housing. Why? It is because they make up 48.3 per cent of expenditure in the Budget? It is too large a portion of the Budget to ignore, particularly when we bear in mind that many other sections of the Budget such as the transfer payments to the States are locked in to the Budget for one reason or another. So we ought to look very carefully at these transfer payments areas and the welfare area- I am using the word 'welfare' in its widest sense- to see where we can cut them without hurting the needy. 
Do we need universal health care? I think not. That matter has already been dealt with in the debate tonight, so I shall just refer honourable members to the speech by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. Do we need universal free education? Again, I think not, particularly at a time when we have truck drivers, shearers and other people who work with their hands, paying for the higher education of people who, after having completed their education, will lay claim to higher incomes than those taxpayers will ever hope to get. Is it reasonable to tax those people in order to provide benefits for a section of the community that is already among the strongest? Is it sensible not to have a system of tertiary fees? As the honourable member for Diamond Valley said, ought not the Tertiary 
Education Assistance Scheme arrangements be loan arrangements? Is it sensible to penalise the parent who sends his child to a private school, but who is poorer than a wealthy parent who sends his child to a public school? Ought pensions to be universal, or ought we to adopt Professor Henderson's recommendation and maintain the means test on them so that wealthy people do not get the pension and we can thereby concentrate on paying extra pension to the poorer people? 
Yes, ought we to means test the unemployment benefit? Is it sensible to pay unemployment benefit to people who get high incomes for a portion of the year but not for the remaining portion of the year? Is it sensible that someone like myself who comes from a wheat farming background, who can make big money in one year and a loss in the next, ought not to be required to balance his income between years? 
The honourable member can answer them. Ought we to go on paying unemployment benefit to those people who are giving the system a working-over? I admit that there is a difficulty in catching up with such people. There is a Budget item of $648m for unemployment benefit. I remember a Press release put out by  Senator Wheeldon  when he was Minister for Social Security in which he said that 28 per cent of those receiving unemployment benefit were not entitled to that benefit. I repeat: Twentyeight per cent. That is an extraordinarily high figure. Twenty-eight per cent of $648m is a lot of money. If we could catch 10 per cent of those people who were giving the system a working over, the saving would amount to approximately $ 1.8m- a substantial sum. Is it sensible that the people who occupy welfare housing are not among the needy? I think it was Professor Henderson who pointed out that the majority of those in welfare housing were not the poor and that the majority of the poor were not in welfare housing. Should we perhaps be looking hard at means testing the family allowance? These are all possibilities and they are possibilities that would yield the sort of money we would need to write the kind of Budget that would be required so that some sort of stimulus could be achieved in a non-inflationary manner. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Special Trade Representations a question supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Adelaide. In view of the approximate 80 per cent increase in protection afforded to Australian import competing industries by the effect of the 17'/2 per cent devaluation on ad valorem tariff, how does the Minister calculate that Australia has reduced its tariff protection by 30 per cent? Does he agree that the effect of changes to quotas substantially increases protection to Australian import competing industries? Does he also agree that small economies, such as Australia's, inevitably pay a higher price for any comparable level of protection than do large economies? 
-The debate on this amendment has been concerned with two principles. I do not believe that it was necessary, as the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  did, to impugn my colleague's motives in reaching the position he finally reached. One can make a very respectable case, as has been made by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  without impugning anyone's motives. I wish he had not done so. The two principles concern equity and the limiting of retrospectivity. The principle of limiting retrospectivity is not allembracing. I shall come back to it. 
Principles are not immutable. If we consider that they often come into conflict we will realise that they cannot be immutable. If two principles come into conflict, needless to say one of them must give way. It is quite common to apply pragmatic considerations to principles. Numerous learned statements have been quoted in this debate to demonstrate that that is the practice in 
British parliamentary and legal precedent. The principle of equity is widely understood but too little has been said about it in relation to this amendment. The principle proclaims that taxpayers shall, as nearly as possible, share the tax burden. That, of course, is not possible if some people do not pay their taxes. The principle of limiting retrospectivity is more complex. I see the principle in a slightly different way from the honourable member for Bonython. I believe that the principle is limited within itself. It does not merely have the limitation imposed by pragmatic but external considerations. I believe that governments should not take retrospective actions, whether legislative or otherwise, which impose a penalty upon a citizen who has acted in the reasonable belief that his actions were lawful and would remain so. I believe that that is the principle limiting retrospectivity. For two reasons, I contend that the Government has not offended that principle: First, save for any fees that the taxpayer may have paid his lawyer, there is no penalty. He has not other costs. He has no legal position that he has tied himself to from which he cannot escape, such as a trust. He cannot have spent the money he has saved because it relates to future savings. He suffers no penalty because of the application of retrospective legislation to the Curran provisions. We do not offend that principle which limits retrospectivity for another reason, that is, that the taxpayer was clearly on notice. The fact that he was on notice is surely relevant because of precedent, if for no other reason. Honourable members might bear in mind that practically all our major Budget proposals are enacted by legislation with retrospective effect referring to the date of the Budget. Many a policy speech promise is enacted with retrospective effect. Retrospective legislation is common. What we must not do is impose a penalty on the taxpayer. 
We are not doing it in this case with respect. We must not impose a penalty on the taxpayer or on any other citizen in any other area of law who has acted in the belief that he was acting in accord with the law as the law would remain. A taxpayer under this scheme had no reasonable grounds for considering that the law would remain that way. In fact he was on notice that it would not. There is no penalty imposed. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
What was the average freight advantage of wheat shipped from Western Australia over the average freights of wheat shipped from all Australian ports in each of the (a) 1973-74, (b) 1974-75, (c) 1975-76 and (d) 1 976-77 pools. 
What is the expected average freight advantage of wheat shipped from Western Australian ports from the 1977-78 pool. 
What was the tonnage and destination of wheat shipped from each Australian port from each of the (a) 1973-74, (b) 1974-75, (c) 1975-76 and(d) 1976-77 pools. 
-I say as gently as I can to the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  that he is not doing his supporters or the people of Australia any favour by offering easy and false solutions that he knows perfectly well are false. He can make tear-jerking speeches about girls being driven into prostitution and so on. 
I remind the honourable member that the present Opposition had three years in office in which to try its policies of continual stimulation. During those three years the Labor Party did much to bring Australia to the brink of disaster. The honourable member supported a Government that tried, in the first two years of its term of office, the sorts of policies that he is advocating now, though it is significant that it drew back from those policies at the end, when it was too late. 
Some people are calling for an expansion of government activity in order to stimulate the economy. There is no doubt that an increased public expenditure will, of itself, create more total activity. But if the Government once decides to spend more, it must then ask itself how it will finance that spending. No degree of wishful thinking will make that question go away. No amount of rhetoric will substitute for cold hard figuring. No honest and informed commentator or politician should ignore the question in an effort to make popular noises. 
There are three alternatives. The Government could raise additional taxes, it could raise additional loans, or it could resort to an unfunded deficit, that is, print money. Let us look at each of the three alternatives in turn. The simplest solution to the problem would be more tax. It would, in my view, also be the least damaging alternative. However, taxes themselves depress activity. The taxpayers will have less after tax to spend on goods and services of their own choosing, or to invest as they may choose. What the government would be saying is: 'Look,  Mr Taxpayer,  we know better than you how to spend your money, we will take it from you and spend it more effectively'. It would be a doctrine that Liberals should at least be expected to justify and it would lie very strangely with the Prime Minister's promise to return to the taxpayers control over their own incomes. 
If the tax chosen were a direct tax it would have the added adverse effect of destroying a little more of the citizen's motive to get up, get out and raise productivity. If the tax chosen is to be an indirect tax it will have the added disadvantage of adding to the consumer price index and possibly to wages and hence unemployment. The Government could increase expenditure without raising taxes. That is, it could increase the deficit. This deficit might be funded by increased public borrowings, but that would have two serious disadvantages. The Government's attempts to buy more money from the public must raise interest rates or, in the present climate, prevent them from falling at the rate they otherwise would. Further, it would add to the national debt and detract from the amount of choice available to future governments to tackle future problems. 
Finally, the Government might decide to spend more than it either borrows or taxes in the manner of former Treasurer, Jim Cairns. That policy would provide what I believe in the jargon of the trade is called 'Keynesian stimulus'. It would also be a prescription for another wave of accelerating inflation. Keynes depended for the stimulus he predicted on a falling value of money so that investment was repaid in depreciated dollars, and real wages fell- the so-called money illusion. In these days of indexation of everything the stimulus is likely to be small for any given amount of inflation. The inflation itself can be expected to frighten the devil out of the market place. 
I suggest that none of the alternatives look very attractive. The truth of the matter is that the Government's economic policy is broadly on course. Much to the chagrin of honourable members opposite, there is considerable evidence that says that it is. The Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development says so quite bluntly. It said: 
With inflation only recently into single figures, and the present real wage imbalance, the circumstances are not propitious for a relaxation of demand management. 
It continued: 
Apart from the obvious point that steadiness in policy should be maintained unless there are overwhelming reasons to change course, there are a number of other reasons for suggesting that maintenance of the present stance is broadly appropriate. 
The April Treasury statistics reveal that final demand rose markedly in the December quarter with a resultant run-down in stocks. Stocks cannot go on falling and when they cease run-down, demand will, of necessity, be reflected in increased production as it has in part already. Motor vehicle registrations showed significant expansion in the three months to February. The Statistician expects seasonally adjusted capital expenditure by private business to be 15 per cent higher in the first half of 1978 than in the last half of 1977. Inflation is in single figures and overseas capital is just starting to flow in. The evidence of these statistics is that activity is already starting to advance slowly, but I believe surely. I should like to quote what the organisation SYNTEC had to say: 
April has provided new room for optimism about 1979. Whether that can be sustained depends now on the capacity of political government to sustain its restraint course in the face of pressure on several sides to change it. 
That pressure is the greatest danger that the nation faces in economic terms at the moment. This is certainly not the time to change policy. Yet we have two groups who want radical changeone group insists that the Fraser Government's approach to economic management over the past three years has been quite wrong and should be abandoned, while another group insists that the policy has been so successful that it is no longer necessary. Neither group is yet right. All the hard evidence says that the OECD assessment of our position is a correct assessment. 
An inflation rate of 7 per cent to 8 per cent per annum is still too high, and the share of company profit is approximately 3 per cent below the long term average and is still too low. The balance of payments, although much stronger, is none the less not strong enough to withstand a substantial fiscal stimulus. Interest rates, though falling, are still high, and overseas confidence in our economic performance is only just starting to be reflected in capital investment in our undoubted opportunities for profitable mineral development. Any sign of weak budgetary control will be reflected in the balance of payments. Foreign investors knowing this and not wishing to be caught by a falling Australian dollar, will inevitably react like startled fawns. The economy has come a long way but it is not yet out of the woods. We know the path, and so long and only so long as we have the political will to stay on the path, will we even have a very fair idea how long it will take to pass the major mile stones. 
How often have we seen other Western world nations reach approximately the point at which we now stand, lose their will and snatch defeat when victory was within reach by leaving the path they had chosen? The Heath Government in 1971 stood at a similar position. Urged by his own Party and the Labour Opposition, the unions and the Confederation of British Industry, Heath reflated. The British economy since 1971 speaks volumes on the subject of premature reflation. If we are to stay on the path then we must realistically face its difficulties. The main difficulty will be the Commonwealth's own Budget. 
In order to be credibly consistent with avowed and, I remind honourable members again, successful policy, the Government should achieve a further reduction in the Budget deficit. Last Budget predicted a deficit of $2,2 17m, however for a variety of reasons, that figure will be sub.tantially exceeded. The excess is in part attributable to revenue falling below expectations. Revenue is notoriously hard to estimate and was in this case reduced by the Government's success in controlling inflation. The excess deficit is also in part attributable to expenditure commitments such as the beef industry assistance costing some $90m to $100m undertaken immediately after the Budget. I can think of no good and sufficient reason for abandoning the detail of the last August Budget so quickly. 
Next year the taxpayer will get the benefits of standard rate tax for the whole year. The full year cost of standard rate taxation is $973m- no less! Customs revenue and sales tax cannot be expected to rise substantially. Although predictions for the second half of the year ahead are encouraging, growth of the economy during the first half of the year is anticipated to be only modest. The Government cannot expect increased collections resulting from economic growth to very substantially exceed increased expenditures caused by population growth. In short, simple arithmetic says that the next Budget will be very difficult to write. It will also be crucial. 
If the Budget deficit is to be reduced, as it should be, or if it is even to be maintained, the Government is faced with two alternatives: Either of raising further tax income- that is, reversing this year's tax cuts- or substantially reducing expenditure. Increased taxation would further depress incentive and productivity; so although it would be a much less damaging alternative than that of signalling to the world our inability to control our economic affairs by making no credible reduction in the deficit, taxation increases are not the best way out of our difficulty. Reduced public expenditure is the only sure way of staying on our economic path. Almost everybody favours reduced public expenditure in general terms. However, as soon as people are asked to name specific items they tend to lapse into silence or to name some area which will yield about $10m or even less. The Government needs to reduce expenditure by $500m to $l,000m-preferably nearer to the $ 1 ,000m end of that range- for then the Government may have room to spend a little more on capital works which would in turn stimulate industry. 
There is no way that such a sum can be pruned from small items such as legal aid or Aboriginal programs. It can come only from health, education and welfare spending which together make up nearly half of the Budget expenditure. It should not come from the real needs of the poor; so it must come either from those whose incomes are above any reasonable poverty line or from programs which provide non-essentials. By way of example only, let me suggest two possible opportunities: If a very reasonable income test were to be applied to the family allowance, it could save revenues in the order of no less than $500m. If the spouse allowance were abolished for those families that do not care for children or other dependants, $200m to $250m could be saved. In neither case would the poor suffer and the benefits accruing to the economy and hence to the unemployed would be considerable. 
I know that any move to reduce benefits will be very unpopular. It always is. However, it is Australia's future that is at stake and it is the personal futures of many people who will be unemployed if the current opportunities are muffed by a government or a parliament that is too afraid of the criticism of people who do not understand the economic consequences of asking too much in benefits and giving too little in tax. Australia has an assured future if its leaders have the political courage to provide unpopular leadership when that is necessary. I remind any honourable members who aspire to the attribute of leadership that anyone can lead a kid into a lollie shop, but the test of your influence is your ability to lead him out again before he gets sick. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Government now received the report on the inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission into light commercial vehicles? Will the Government's decision in due course be in accord with Australia 's domestic anti-infiation policies? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister. It is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Kennedy on Tuesday. What is the relative grade of phosphorous pentoxide in Queensland Phosphate Ltd rock and how does that rock compare with rock from Nauru, Christmas Island, Florida, and North Africa? Does Queensland rock contain high levels of silicon? How do Australian coastal freight rates compare with shipping freight from Florida? What is the life of the Christmas Island and Nauruan deposits? Will the use of Australian phosphate rock be permitted to increase the price of phosphate fertiliser to Australian farmers? 
-I have not for some time heard anything more cynical than-the raising in this House of this matter of public importance by these people opposite. I remind them of a very well known proverb concerning glass houses and the throwing of stones. While I am on the subject of cynicism I want to say something else in response to a remark by the honourable member for Oxley, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  He was so concerned about the plight of rural people that he could not refrain from using his speech to make some very uncharitable and untrue remarks about two Ministers- the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I remind the Leader of the Opposition that he once said on a public affairs program that he did not believe in the use of personal attacks. I am getting sick to death of this House and the privilege that goes with it being used as an opportunity for slander. Privilege is not a licence to slander. 
The use of this debate as an opportunity to slander other men is just a demonstration of the cynicism of those who raised this matter. I turn now to the troubles of the rural industries. They undoubtedly have some troubles; there is no doubt about that, but we ought to look at their causes. The farm sector has been declining as a share of the total Australian economy ever since about 1870- maybe longer, but beyond that the statistics get very hairy. The fact that it is declining and has been declining in recent years is not new. What happened was that as a result of galloping inflation and a low level of domestic demand, the decline accelerated following the years of the Whitlam Administration. That is why, as was pointed out to us quite correctly from the other side of the House, there is a disproportionate amount of poverty among the rural community. They said that 36 per cent of all poverty was within 6 per cent of the population that lived in rural areas. That may be so, but the statement is a little meaningless unless they define what their poverty line is. But we will take the statement as read. The reason for this disproportion is that the relative earnings of those who ran small businesses, including farms, were reduced drastically by the wage-hike of the Whitlam era. The cost of that wage-hike was borne by two groups of people. There were those who depended on the earnings of their own businesses- some of them are now amongst the unemployed- and those who were on wages and as a result of the wage-hike became the unemployed. That is why the rate of decline as a percentage of the total economy of rural communities has drastically accelerated. 
Inflation went through the roof. Surely the honourable member for Oxley will not deny that the free-spending policies of" the Whitlam era were responsible for inflation going through the roof. Should he seek to deny it, I shall remind him of words that he uttered in his own Budget speech. 
The rural community is dependent for its livelihood on two markets, and I include the livelihood of those people who service farmers, as well as farmers themselves. I remind the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  that I am speaking of the whole rural community dependent on the export market. Its ability to compete in that market is dependent on costs within this country and the relationship that those costs bear to other communities that would supply those same commodities overseas, whether those other suppliers are in the consuming country or in some other supplying country that might meet that market. The reason our export industries are in so much trouble is that our competitive edge was worn away by a cost-hike that was thrust upon them. Some of our rural communities cater for the domestic market. The domestic market has shrunk because of the low levels of activity that were foisted upon it by crazy economic management that led to high levels of inflation and high levels of unemployment. Until we manage to get the whole economy going again in a manner that will enable every Australian to prosper, the rural community must inevitably bear some of the cost of the follies of the past. 
The rural community, more than most communities, is dependent upon the opportunity to make continuing investment. It is dependent upon reasonable interest rates. I admit that the word 'reasonable' defies definition. But there is no doubt that present interest rates are historically high. There is also no doubt that at present interest rates are coming down. That cannot be denied and I will explain why that is so. It also cannot be denied that interest rates went up because of inflation and because the Budget deficit was increased. The load that has been thrust upon the rural community is very much the result of foolish actions of the past. A part of those foolish actions was the driving up of interest rates through excessive deficit funding and through high inflationary expectations. 
-The honourable member for Oxley did not mention that. I am surprised that he should have passed over it. These interest rates are coming down. Few actions or developments would do more to aid rural communities than a reduction in interest rates. Those interest rates will come down because inflation is being reduced and because the Budget deficit has been brought down. Those two factors, inflationary expectations, which are determined by the current inflation rate and the Budget deficit, determine the price of money. The rural community will find that its prosperity will increase, as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has forecast, because of the sound economic management of the present Government. Nothing can be done which will improve the lot of rural people more than those measures that will benefit the economy as a whole, which will result in economic health for the entire community and which will provide the opportunity for Australia to grow again. 
In the time remaining to me, I will deal with some specific actions that have been taken for rural industry. I will deal first with bluetongue disease. Contrary to what was said by the honourable member for Fraser, the Government tackled this problem quickly. Bluetongue was probably the one problem that rural industry has not inherited from the Labor Administration. I do not think that even the honourable member for Oxley or the honourable member for Fraser would suggest that the Government introduced bluetongue to this country and I do not think that honourable members opposite can reasonably suggest that the Government is not tackling the problem. 
Finally I refer to industrial relations. Markets have been lost to the Australian community because trade unions have refused us access to markets which otherwise would have been ours. I wonder whether we will ever regain those markets, particularly the wheat contracts with Chile. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
I want to say two things to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  First of all, I say that the Opposition has co-operated with and encouraged this enterprise. I believe that it will work for that reason. The committee system has no opportunity of working effectively unless there is a bipartisan approach to it. The chance that the functions of the plenum will be usurped by the committees to the detriment of the Opposition really does not exist because matters can be referred to the committee only by leave of the House. If honourable members opposite feel that the Opposition is being treated unfairly, the Government will not receive leave to refer the matter to the committee. That was a request put to the Government by the Opposition and we acceded to it. I believe that in that spirit the committee system will succeed. We are determined that it will succeed and I believe Opposition members feel the same. 
I do not agree with honourable members opposite who say that the members of the public wish to see the Parliament. That is not really what the members of the public are worried about. They are worried about good sound legislation. Surely this is an opportunity for an Opposition of whatever colour to contribute to sound legislation and to improve it. I submit for that reason that the position of any Opposition is enhanced. We could have committees meeting in gravel pits without any procedural orders and provided there was sufficient goodwill they would succeed. If there is no goodwill from both sides of the House, they have no chance of succeeding. Their success depends entirely upon that goodwill. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 May 1 978: 
1 ) What is the annual cost of ( a) paternity and ( b) maternity leave of public servants. 
How many public servants have left the public service within one month of the expiration of their maternity leave (a) to date and (b) in the most recent 12 months period for which information is available. 
How many public servants have left the public service within 12 months of the expiration of maternity or paternity leave (a) to date and (b) during the period referred to in part 2(b). 
How many persons have sought maternity leave within (a) 12 months and (b) 6 months of joining the public service. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What was the average freight advantage of wheat shipped from Western Australia over the average freights of wheat shipped from all Australian ports in each of the (a) 1973-74, (b) 1974-75, (c) 1975-76 and (d) 1976-77 pools. 
What is the expected average freight advantage of wheat shipped from Western Australian ports from the 1977- 78 pool. 
What was the tonnage and destination of wheat shipped from each Australian port from each of the (a) 1973-74, (b) 1974-75, (c) 1975-76 and (d) 1976-77 pools. 
I have a letter from QBE Insurance Ltd which granted this loan. The letter states quite clearly that the loan was on normal terms. The letter has been made public and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  - 
Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce inform the House of the future export prospects of Australian manufacturing industry? Does the Government recognise the importance of Australian manufacturing industry maintaining a significant export presence? Are some Australian manufacturers achieving success in selling to overseas markets at the present time? Are their costs and hence their competitive positions affected by Australian tariff and import quotas? 
-The Association of South East Asian Nations is of great importance to Australia. The question which immediately comes to mind is whether relationships between ASEAN and Australia have been improved by attempting to make them a political football in this Parliament today. If we look at the relations, to use the word from this matter of public importance, we see that there is a refugee issue; and in this respect I think that even honourable gentlemen in the Opposition would have to agree that we have reached a remarkable degree of accord with the ASEAN people under remarkably difficult circumstances. If we look at the issue of defence we see that there has been a remarkable degree of co-operation over a very long time. So the matter comes back to one issue- trade. Most of the debate has been centred on trade. Certainly there has been some friction over a period of time, both when the Labor Party was in power and when the Liberal-National Country Party coalition has been in power in Australia. That is no surprise. In fact there have been differences of opinion over trade between almost any two countries in the world. 
To our north we have countries which are growing very rapidly. There is in fact an embryo economic bloc. They are showing rates of economic growth of about 8 per cent to 10 per cent which look very good beside Australia's 3 per cent or 4 per cent. We might bear in mind that 
Australia's average growth over the last decade has been much depressed by the fact that we ran into economic disaster through high inflation and the resultant unemployment during a period of complete and quite unnecessary economic mismanagement for ideological reasons when the Labor Government was in power. Even if we had not had that period of economic mismanagement our rates of growth would still look small beside those of the ASEAN countries. They have a remarkably high rate of population growth. That also will have an effect on Australia. We must understand it and certainly cope with it. 
We were accused, amongst other things, of misunderstanding Indo-China. Whatever the difficulties of the Indo-China war, our stand in Indo-China gave ASEAN the breathing space it needed to develop. If there had been no intervention in Indo-China on behalf of the South Vietnamese there would have been no ASEAN. What amazes me about this debate is the number of converts we suddenly have to the low protection school. Until recently the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  had been regarded as a archprotectionist within the Labor Party. 
By many, including most of his own people. Suddenly we have the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith advocating discussions with the ASEAN countries- that is good; so far there is no quarrel- but advocating that following those discussions we admit a much greater flow of imports from the ASEAN countries. I agree with that, but this has been an issue that has cut across party lines. There are people who hold this view both on the other side of the House and on this side of the House, but suddenly this afternoon the issue is put up as a party political matter at the time of the ASEAN Trade Fair, to gain political headlines. 
It is an insult to ASEAN, to the Australian people and to this Parliament. What is more, it is very unfortunate that it occurred with regard to these serious issues. The issues are worth debating, but to try to make a political football of them will not bring us anywhere nearer to an understanding of them. To suggest that the Government is doing nothing to come to grips with the problem is arrant nonsense. To suggest that the Labor Party is lily white in its dealing with countries which would trade with us is also arrant nonsense. After all, which government dropped textile quotas upon ASEAN countries that would export to Australia? It was the Labor Government, not our Government. Now that members opposite have joined the low protection school- I welcome them, it is a battle that I have been fighting for some time- I welcome a debate that will lead to the son of understanding in the Australian community that will admit a free flow of goods between ASEAN and Australia and between Australia and other countries that would trade with Australia. 
It is a nonsense to suggest that we can achieve a trade balance between any pair of countries. Of course, any country's trade must balance over an extended period. Australia must import as great a value of goods as it exports. The same applies to any other country. To suggest that we could achieve bilateral trade with any group of countries or any individual country, as I am sure honourable members will realise, is not realistic. 
Recently in respect of ASEAN I was disappointed to find that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  used forums overseas to bad mouth Australia. That did not do Australia's position in ASEAN any good. It did not do his position in ASEAN any good.  His  action was regarded with amusement by some ASEAN people, although it may have gone down better with others. I would not know. 
I do know that in Manila his attitude on the uranium question was causing considerable distress. Uranium is a tradeable commodity. It is one of the goods that these countries are most enthusiastic to trade with Australia. Let honourable members have no doubt about that. Certainly, they wish to sell us more of their goods. There are also goods selected from Australia which they wish to buy if we are prepared to sell them. The Government is prepared to sell uranium to the Philippines or to other ASEAN countries provided that they meet the detail safeguard requirements that we require of all countries. Honourable members opposite cannot have their cake and eat it too. Either they wish to trade with the ASEAN countries or they do not. If they wish to trade with the ASEAN countries that is good; so do I. However, we must accept the adjustment that will take place in Australian industry as it takes the opportunity to expand and take advantage of the ASEAN market which is, I agree, potentially the most valuable market we have. It is the bright light for our industry. 
What honourable members opposite seem to misunderstand is that the greatest benefit from this ASEAN trade will not flow to ASEAN. After all, the 200 million within ASEAN have the opportunity to trade with Japan, the United States and other countries. The great benefits will flow to Australia because the trade will provide an opportunity for our manufacturing sector to get economies of scale, long production runs and to become competitive. The situation will not be improved if we try to make a political football of it and downgrade the work the Government has undertaken in recent times, through both the Minister of Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland).  These Ministers are attempting to bring an understanding of the difficulties and the opportunities to Australia and to encourage the Australian people and our trading partners to make the best of the situation. 
-We have heard an extraordinary outline of economic theory that seemed to argue that the amount of labour employed is unaffected by its price; that the cost of employing a worker, or the substitution of labour for capital, is unaffected by the relative prices of labour and capital. Yet the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  conceded that the price of labour affected Australia's competitive position- I believe he said in world markets. Surely he would have to concede that if it affects our competitive position in world markets it must also affect our competitive position in domestic markets. If our competitive position is affected by the price of labour how can activity, and the amount of labour employed, not be affected? How can an industry be priced out of a market and still employ the same amount of labour? It is an economic nonsense. 
The honourable member contended that the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research believed that the wage overhang had been largely overcome. I hope that he is right. It is a very optimistic forecast. That is the situation which normally arises as an economy climbs out of a recession. However, if we have gone so far, it does not follow that the levels of employment will not be affected by the price of labour. That does not follow at all and I am sure that the Melbourne Institute does not contend that it does. Certainly, in discussions with its members that is not what they contended to me. 
The honourable member discussed the cost of labour in terms of award wages. Of course, award wages do not represent the total cost of labour. It is affected also by over-award payments, overtime and non-wage factors such as the cost of various classes of insurance, holiday pay, pay-roll tax, superannuation and so on. Unfortunately, the effective wage overhang is influenced by these costs. Unfortunately, award wages have risen more slowly than has total labour cost. Therefore, the decision that any employer must make as to whether he will use a piece of machinery to do a job or put on more labour, whether he will capitalise his enterprise or go into the labour market and ask someone to do the job, is influenced by these other non-wage costs. 
And subsidies, I concede. Unfortunately, we still have the cost of past decisions working their way through; we still have the cost of more recent decisions working their way through. So the decision that any employer must make is affected adversely, from labour's point of view, by the cumulative cost of past wage decisions and more recent non-wage decisions. 
The previous speaker flew in the face of the advice of the Treasury, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - 
-And the Reserve Bank. I point out that a signatory to the report of the Reserve Bank is  Mr Bob  Hawke, a person who is not unknown in trade union circles. 
Or the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member was flying in the face of the vast weight of economic advice on which this or any other government has to rely. He suggests that suddenly the overhang has become irrelevant. I suggest that the trade union movement does not represent the unemployed. It represents people who are in work. It represents people who have jobs now. Therefore, it is not surprising that the trade union movement argues for a bigger share of the total economic cake. It is not surprising that it argues on behalf of its members, who are in jobs, so that they might get rather more and those who are out of work might get rather less. I remind the honourable member of what was said by a former Treasurer of this nation, Treasurer Crean perhaps the best of the Australian Labor Party Treasurers. He said: 'One man's pay rise is another man's job. " 
-Yes, it will haunt them. It is as true now as it was then. The wages take-off of 1973-74 that was encouraged by the Labor Government coincided with the rise in unemployment. It is hardly surprising that in any market the cost of a commodity affects its usage. In this case the commodity is labour. That wild escalation of wage rates and labour costs resulted inevitably in a fall in labour usage. 
It is not surprising that Treasurer Crean saw that this had happened. It is not surprising, since he was a responsible and compassionate man, that at that time he pointed it out to the nation. It is possibly also not surprising that the trade union movement and its advocates should ignore that fact in representing, quite properly, those who are in work and who pay their union dues. It is not surprising that we see the state of affairs that we do now. We went deeply into this recession. We also went into it somewhat later than did most of the other OECD countries. We are climbing out of it and are following the pattern that is normally followed by a country climbing out of recession. We are now in the first stages of that recovery. We have seen a marked increase in productivity, which is the other side of the coin referred to by the last speaker, and that will increase our competitiveness in world and domestic markets. 
We have had a marked increase in productivity and the statistics demonstrate that fact. Employment is normally the last of the economic indicators to rise when a country is climbing out of an economic recession. That has been so in other economic recessions in this country and in economic recessions in other countries also. If we try to raise the price of labour we delay the arrival of the time when we might climb out of the recession, to the detriment of the unemployed who surely are the great sufferers. 
The Reserve Bank, the OECD, the Treasury, the Henderson and Ironmonger group in Melbourne- with whom I have discussed this matter- and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade all point this out. Do honourable members opposite really wish to fly in the face of all of the economic advice that the nation is receiving? Investment is up. The gross domestic product is rising at a much slower rate. Employment will not rise unless GDP rises can overtake that wage overhang. Employment will rise when that wage overhang is overcome and not before. 
-What the Government intends to do in this matter is very simple. The Government has selected one private organisation on which to expend public moneys. The principles that the Government is offending by doing this are very simple, and it is those principles that I wish to discuss. It is the ultimate of interventionism to step in and to expend public moneys not on an industry but on one company, one private organisation within an industry. I submit that that is very strange liberalism. 
Our founding fathers when drafting the Australian Constitution went to great lengths to ensure that this sort of thing would not happen, and I will cite five sections of the Constitution in which they endeavoured to make sure that it was not possible either to penalise one section of Australia, or to hand out benefits to one section, at the expense of the rest. Section 51 (ii), which deals with taxation, provides that one of the powers of the Commonwealth shall be taxation, but so as not to discriminate between States or parts of States. Section 5 1 (iii) provides: 
Bounties on the production or export of goods, but so that such bounties shall be uniform throughout the Commonwealth: 
Section 88 deals with uniform customs duties and ensures that they will be uniform. Section 92 ensures that there will be free trade between the States. Section 99 states: 
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
Unfortunately, the founding fathers placed section 96 in the Constitution, which allowed all those principles so carefully enshrined to be cast away. If we are going to hand out taxpayers money to benefit a private organisation, why Queenstown? Why not Kalgoorlie? Why not the gold mines in Kalgoorlie? A request was made by the State to the Commonwealth for dollar for dollar support for those gold mines. In relation to the copper industry, why not the Burra mine? Why not any other company? 
As my friend says, why not David Jones? Why should it be mining? 
David Jones has already closed a shop in Perth. Why pick out a mining company in Queenstown? Why a mining company? Why Queenstown? Incidentally, why only companies? Is small business any different? I know a delicatessen that is in quite a lot of trouble. Is the test unprofitability? We can find plenty of unprofitable businesses. I know plenty of unprofitable farmers. They are small; that is all. What if the unprofitability is caused by asset stripping? What if Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd, the company that has the beneficial interest in the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd happens to have highly profitable ventures such as Renison tin and Bellambi coal? Is the test to be isolation? If it is isolation, why not Kalgoorlie or Port Hedland, which would make Mount Lyell look like a suburb of Melbourne. Is the test Tasmania? If so, what do I say to Western Australians? I suggest that it is not a proper use of public moneys to pay them to individual private organisations. We are bound ultimately to be accused of pork barrel politics and the system of Government itself will be brought into disrepute. If I have time I will come back to that. We have seen but a few of these types of payments, but since the Mount Lyell decision we have had one at Barraba for Woodsreef. Thank the Lord that that is not in a coalition electorate; otherwise we might well be accused again of pork barrelling. 
-That is a pity. It is unfortunate that it is in a coalition electorate. Thank the Lord that no member of this House happens to be in the unfortunate position of holding shares in Consolidated Gold Fields. How would he feel about this? Would he declare his interest and abstain from voting? It would still be an embarrassing position for rum. 
I do not know whether he would pick up his dividend or not. What about members representing other companies, other towns, or other States? This is in fact an issue of what is and what is not proper government. Let us look at the economic considerations. Is it wise to use public resources to prop up ailing companies? To do so is an assumption that the Government knows better than the market place. It is an assumption that the Government knows better than the banks, who might have provided the money, or the public, who might have subscribed the money. It is also an assumption that the Government knows better than Consolidated Gold Fields itself, and in that respect I should like to quote from an article in the Melbourne  Herald  under the headline 'Cons. Gold Seeks Expansion': 
Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Limited is actively seeking areas for expansion of the group 's activities. 
CGFA  chairman, Mr S.  L. Segal, told shareholders at the annual meeting in Sydney today that the company was 'very liquid ' with cash resources of around $20m. 
This placed CGFA in a position to expand its operations when opportunities presented themselves 'and which we are actively seeking, '  Mr Segal  said. 
If he is actively seeking a place to expand, why not Mount Lyell? Perhaps his judgment differs from that of the Government. Perhaps the judgment within the mining industry differs from the judgment within the Government. Far from creating employment by using public resources to prop up what is unprofitable, the Government is destroying it. Professor Wolfgang Kasper stated: 
National productivity levels will only rise to match national wage levels sufficiently to achieve high employment, if (industrial and regional) structures of supply adjust to changed structures of demand and to changed international trade patterns. 
It is undoubtedly true that if we insist on pushing our resources into those areas that are least likely to be profitable and where product is least likely to grow, we are least likely to get an increase in employment. Employment will be created in Queenstown but at a cost of employment in the rest of Australia. There will be a net loss. If we do not concentrate on those things that we do well, product will never grow fast enough and product and full employment are likely to be lower than they otherwise would be for any given wage level. 
We produce copper at Mount Isa in Queensland. If we wish and are determined to subsidise copper, I suggest that by tipping the same resources into a profitable mine instead of an unprofitable one, we would make better use of the revenues from taxpayers. Where are the revenues from taxpayers? What do I say to  Sir Charles  Court- there are a lot of mines in Western Australia as there are in Queensland- the next time he wants to get some sort of public support from the Commonwealth Government for a mine in Western Australia? Do I suggest that he ought to put his head in the economic trough and guzzle? I know it is bad economics; he knows it is bad economics; we all know it is bad economics. Propping up ailing industries is inevitably bad. My father built what I think was the last hansom cab to run in Melbourne. Ought he to have been subsidised to go on making hansom cabs to this day? It is a nonsense. 
I would like to quote from the Industries Assistance Commission's annual report which was tabled in Parliament today. I quote from the preface because I have not time to read much of the report: 
Pressures for structural change appear to be mainly responsible for the disproportionate loss of employment in highly assisted industries, and the additional assistance they have received has added to the backlog of change which the economy will have to face. Sheltering them has also been to the detriment of more likely assisted activities which, notwithstanding these extra burdens, have weathered the recession substantially better than high cost activities. Whatever merits these policies might have as 'temporary' measures, the further they are extended the more likely they are to prejudice the health of the economy and thus retard recovery from the recession. 
There are thousands more mines that are similar to Mount Lyell. Where will we draw the line? 
I now want to make a point about the process of the decision itself. Members of this place belong to political parties. Rules within those parties govern their functioning. We all have them. They are similar as between parties. When I play the game by the rules it appears that no one hears. When I do not have the wit and the eloquence to sway my colleagues I accept it. That is the rule. When I have the wit and the eloquence, however I came by it, to have the majority of my colleagues with me, I expect to be heard so that I do not have to make this sort of speech in the House. After Mount Lyell there were to be no more of these situations. Yet we have Woodsreef which is a very similar circumstance indeed. A government that seeks loyalty must give it. So much for the Government and the decision. 
I now wish to say something to which I hope the mining industry will listen. Profit is a reward, or it should be, for risk taking. If the Government is to pick up miners' risks it must ultimately take action to spread the risks over other miners. The only way in which this can be done- I say this particularly to the Minister for Finance  (Mr EricRobinson)  who is at the table- is by imposing a resources tax. There must necessarily be a resources tax to pay for this sort of benefit that carries the risks of mining companies. The mining industry might note that governments have a habit of expanding taxes beyond the purpose for which they were raised originally. Once this resources tax is raised and we look many years down the line, the mining industry might be just a little fearful that it is not used entirely to prop up mining companies. In fact, one might question whether in seeking these forms of assistance the mining industry has in fact been very clever. I sincerely hope, for Australia's sake, that we are not setting a precedent. 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, refers particularly to motor vehicles. Will the Treasurer reaffirm his undertaking that the additional 12 per cent tariff impost on goods which gain entry under import quotas will not appreciably increase protection? If changes in the relative value of the Australian dollar or any other factors should mean that the level of protection comes to be set by the tariff rather than by the quota, will the Government then reduce the relevant tariff so that the 12 per cent impost will not increase protection? Will the Government keep the matter under continuing review. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) How many new courses were submitted by Western Australian tertiary institutions to the Western Australian Post-Secondary Education Commission for approval during the last 12 months. 
What were the courses and by which institutions were they submitted. 
Which of these courses (a) were approved, (b) were refused, and on what grounds, and (c) are still under consideration. 
Do the courses approved satisfy the Tertiary Education Commission's guidelines for such approvals and in particular are they being offered within available financial and academic resources as referred to in the Tertiary Education Commission's Report for the 1979-81 Triennium, Vol. 1 , paragraph 2.2 1 . 
-During the weekend just passed I read a book that came into my hands. 
-No, not at all. It was written by a former member of this House, the former honourable member for Wakefield, the Honourable Bert Kelly. Whilst I realise that this is not an appropriate forum in which to conduct a book review, I think that something of Bert Kelly's style ought to be understood by this House. Bert Kelly was a very dear friend to me, particularly when I first came into the Parliament. 
He still is a very dear friend of mine, certainly. But at that time I was in even greater need of friendship than perhaps I am now. That might surprise my friends. The point about Bert Kelly's style is that he was a man who was prepared to follow an argument to its logical conclusion. He was prepared to follow an argument to where it led him. There was a man who was prepared to give leadership, both to this Parliament and to the community. There was man who saw worth in logical and sensible policy over and above popularity. There was a man who thought that he had the obligation to provide reasoned argument to the Australian people and to this Parliament. I suggest that as a result there was a man who will be remembered long after many have been forgotten- and many pass through this place with barely a ripple. There was someone who in fact has managed to influence the course of Australian history. 
Over the weekend I read also comments by Kissinger on the process of democratic government and where possibly we are heading. He made the point that the democratic process is leading to tactical short term policy formation and that these short term policies are leading to incompetent government. He said that governments in democratric countries become locked in by their opinion polls, that they constantly watch the opinion polls and that their policies constantly become more and more short term, while the opinion polls register the fact that they are incompetent. They are led into government seeking immediate popularity but they govern badly, and that bad government is reflected in unpopularity. Governments generally, particularly democratic governments, might reasonably take arguments where they lead and endeavour to follow those arguments through in order to provide consistent reasoned government for their people. In short, they might show the sort of courage that Kelly showed in following, sometimes as a minority of one, an argument through to its logical conclusion. I suggest that Bert Kelly has done Australia a great service. I suggest further that others who display similar intellectual integrity and courage might have the opportunity to provide the same sort of leadership and to do the same sort of service to this country. 
I wish to discuss one aspect of the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  namely, its economic aspect. When Labor came to power in December 1972, it inherited a relatively sound economy. Inflation measured for the 12 months to December 1972 was 4.5 per cent. Unemployment, seasonally adjusted, was 1.78 per cent. When Labor left office three years later, inflation was 14 per cent for the year and higher for a shorter period, and unemployment was at 4.8 1 per cent seasonally adjusted. Labor tried to blame overseas events for the disaster which struck Australia. We were, however, largely insulated from the effects of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries oil price hike; overseas markets, initially at least when the Labor Party took office, were buoyant. In fact, our inflation and our unemployment were substantially home grown. 
Labor would have been more credible if it had not said that Australia imported inflation but instead said that Australia imported some very bad habits which were prevalent in other countries, particularly the English speaking countries of the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. These bad habits were: Slack control of the money supply, profligate public sector expenditure and intemperate wage rates. Labor deliberately encouraged all three bad habits. Public sector expenditure rose from 32.7 per cent to 37.8 per cent of gross domestic product during the time it was in office. Real growth in the money supply was absolutely unprecedented. Wages, led by the Public Service and encouraged by the Government of the day, took off, so that in 1974 they rose by no less than 28 per cent in real terms. 
In attempting to defend the indefensible, Labor might have made three valid points in partial mitigation of its stewardship. Labor inherited three difficult conditions. First, it inherited a money supply that was already starting to blow out, a trend that it unfortunately exacerbated greatly. Secondly, it inherited public expectations that a better life was to be had merely for the asking and without effort or payment. It reinforced that state of mind and had consciously fostered it before it came into office. Thirdly, Labor inherited a badly structured industry either protected by high tariffs or suffering the burden of the cost of protecting uncompetitive brother industries. This artificially weakened industry, as a result, was in a much weaker position to withstand increases in wages and taxes. Labor did attempt, albeit in a somewhat heavy handed manner, to tackle this problem and for its pains received some ill-directed criticism from ourselves. 
It takes much longer to build a house than to pull it down and so it takes longer to build an economy than to damage one. It is also more difficult and it is taking this Government longer to lift the Australian economy than it took the Labor Party to destroy it- or to seriously damage it, to be fair. Nonetheless, to use the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  there are many runs on the board. Inflation as measured by the CPI is at 7.8 per cent for the past year. I ask anyone to compare that with inflation running at the level it was when we took office. It was admittedly 2.3 per cent for the most recent quarter but the underlying rate of inflation is a good deal lower than that 2.3 per cent. One ought to bear in mind that there was a contribution to that 2.3 per cent of 0.7 per cent by the food sector mainly brought about by a rise in beef prices, a sector which is traditionally unstable and is not much of a reflection of underlying rates. There was also a 0.8 per cent contribution from the item 'motor vehicle operation'. That was almost entirely as a result of an increase in oil prices intended- as it certainly will- to bring about a saving of fuel and the greater development of domestic fuel sources. 
Several of the activity indicators look a great deal better than they have looked for a very long time. Mining and manufacturing is up by 23 per cent in real terms. Resources mining is up by 70 per cent in real terms. The minimum oil exploration estimated is an additional 83 wells. I invite honourable members to compare that with almost nothing under Labor. Non-dwelling investment is up 6 per cent in real terms. Private dwelling approvals are up 13 per cent. Rural production is up dramatically. I admit that in that area we have had a good season. The rainfall has been kind. Nonetheless, any realistic assessment of those figures will show that it was not entirely due to the good season but was also a result of considerable expanded acreage and production. 
The Prime Minister spoke confidently of ICI Australia Ltd's new developments and significantly he spoke of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd proposals to build a new $2 10m engine complex based in Victoria. This proposal gives Australia an opportunity to make a significant start towards turning our over protected and highly uncompetitive car industry- which is at present such a heavy burden on the rest of the Australian economy- into an outward-looking efficient industry. The long term benefits could be enormous. Civilian employment has risen. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said when speaking on the ABC  AM  radio program: 
There is absolutely no reason, though, why we should not be seeing a pick-up in the level of economic activity, reductions in unemployment, marked reductions in interest rates, as promised by the Government. 
I thank him for that. It was a generous statement. I question, though, that reductions in unemployment must necessarily follow an increase in activity. That could be a serious weakness in the Australian economy and it is certainly a situation that must be squarely faced. 
Professor Max Corden of the Australian National University in a paper published recently, having discussed various proposals advanced by various interests to reduce unemployment levels, said:   the central issue of the need for wage restraint cannot be avoided. It is not sufficient to point to the fact that real wages have not increased much in a period of prolonged recession. Probably real wages of some pans of the workforce, notably of teenagers and young adults, would have to fall if an impact on the unemployment problem were to be made. If the tax cuts or the employment subsidy solution were tried post-tax real wages should not rise even when profits rise and unemployment is reduced. This is a harder requirement than holding real wages at a time of recession. If the Government co-operates by ensuring an expansion of nominal demand, by possibly providing some employment subsidies, and by trying various measures to improve the productivity of labour, will the forces in the labour market allow the unemployed- however potentially productive- to obtain employment? Progress in this field may require a genuine partnership between an imaginative Government and cooperative trade unions in which the safely employed citizens of Australia- especially in their capacity as organised employees- are willing to make sacrifices for the minority who are unemployed or whose employment is less secure. 
We need to face the real possibility that as our economy moves ahead, as the Leader of the Opposition and most economic commentators are now saying that it will, organised labour will be so strong that it will cream off that growth in product to the persons who are presently employed and thereby reduce the real opportunity that is presented to reduce unemployment and put the unemployed into work. That is what Treasurer Crean was talking about when he said that one man's pay rise is another man's job. Submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission tend to be based on the sort of popular Keynesian model in which the economy can be stimulated, demand increased and employment increased without increased costs. That would assume that the Phillips curve is flat. I think it is more realistic to look at a situation in which the Phillips curve is nearly vertical. In fact, anything that increases inflation is likely to have in the quite short run adverse effects on employment. The Australian economy has been through a period of very serious inflation. For very good reason, the people who make the decisions in the Australian economy are frightened of inflation. If we attempt to stimulate the Australian economy by increasing the money supply, an increase in inflation will occur. 
Just as importantly, there will immediately be an increase in inflationary expectation because the Australian people have seen what that sort of behaviour has done in the past. It will dampen investment decisions and activity and it will do so quite quickly. It is very likely that the extra demand created by the increased money supply would be more than offset by the demand destroyed by a loss of confidence. So we are at some point on the Phillips curve where the curve is roughly vertical or even slightly sloping back. Money limitation is not a real option. The overseas advice that is offered to Australia by organisations like the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development reinforces that view. Yesterday an honourable member cited Germany as an example and suggested that it was possible to stimulate the Australian economy because Germany had stimulated its economy. Australia faces a balance of payments constraint that is not faced by Germany. The OECD made a very clear distinction between the very few countries like Germany and other countries like Australia that have this balance of payments constraint. The Organisation made it clear that we ought not follow that path. 
The trade unions have very considerable monopoly powers. It is important that a better understanding be engendered in the union movement, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and in the minds of the members of the public generally. It is important that we do not grasp unreal policies, pretending that there is a solution to the unemployment problem that will not involve some pain for some people. If we do not face reality we will not succeed. 
-During the 1978 autumn session of this Parliament legislation was carried to give retroactive effect to prevent certain income tax deductions being made under what were generally known as the Curran schemes. It might be remembered that the action caused quite some discussion, particularly among Government members at that time. It was defended by myself, amongst others, on the grounds that the Government's decision had been pre-announced and that the taxpayer could not place himself inadvertently at a disadvantage. The intention to legislate to prevent Curran 's arrangements had, .in fact, been announced twice- once on 1 December 1974 by the then Treasurer,  Mr Frank  Crean, and again by Treasurer Lynch during the 1977 Budget Speech. Three and a half years elapsed after the first Crean announcement and nearly eight months after the second Lynch announcement before the legislation was introduced. 
The Parliament passes many retroactive laws. The Budget legislation contains many of them. The practice of Parliament to back date legislation to the time when earlier announcements by the Government were made is hallowed by long and quite frequent practice. I think this is necessary. Nonetheless, it is not without its drawbacks. Following the Lynch announcement, Curran scheming almost stopped, until there was an event which many saw as a parallel and a precedent, namely, the refusal of the Party to give retroactive effect to section 36 of the Income 
Tax Act. For quite long periods the announcement of impending retroactive legislation had a similar effect to the legislation itself. This has been characterised as legislation by Press release and has several attendant problems. Firstly, it is a denial of the authority of Parliament. Parliament neither itself changed the law for which it is ultimately responsible nor subordinated that authority to the Executive, yet for a long period the effect of the threat of enactment was as though the law had been carried. Secondly, the specifics of the legislation cannot be known until it is carried and anyone dealing even peripherally with the intended legislation places himself at risk. Thirdly, a government might go cold on something that it has merely announced, thereby placing some taxpayers at a very considerable disadvantage to others who might have judged that the Government would go cold and, thus, acted differently. 

 Mr Justice Mason said to the Eighteenth Australian Legal Convention that the technique of the ministerial statement by which it is announced that at some time in the future the law will be amended to take effect from the date of the statement had obvious dangers. I do not have time to read the whole of what he said, but he made the points that I have just made. He also said that the technique was calculated to encourage people to disregard and, indeed, to disobey the law. When a government pre-announces impending legislation which is to be given retroactive effect it should do so explicitly- far more explicitly than the Lynch Budget pronouncements concerning Curran schemes- and it should seek to enact the legislation promptly, certainly far more promptly than eight months later. If it should decide not to go ahead it should say so clearly and as soon as possible. Retrospective legislation should never be enacted without good reason and, of course, it should never impose a penalty on the unwitting citizen. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the recent raid by South African forces into Angola and reports that the South West African People's Organisation considers Western countries unacceptable as members of the United Nations Transitional Assistance Group. What effects will these developments have on the proposed contribution by Australia of an engineering unit to UNTAG? 
-If the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is expecting the 
Prices Justification Tribunal to keep prices and inflation down in this country, heaven help the country if he should ever become Prime Minister. The record of legislative fiat in keeping prices down is not good. In fact, it has always, without exception, failed. There is a long record going back at least over 5,000 years where attempts to force prices down, or up for that matter, in the face of market forces, has failed dismally. I want to read to the House one or two statements from history assembled for me by an organisation called the Centre for Independent Studies which is a small liberal group in Australia trying to emulate what the Fraser Institute of Canada has done, and what the Institute of Economic Affairs has done in England. I cite ancient Egypt and the historian Levy from the book  Wage-Price Control  which states: 
Under the Lagid dynasty . . . there was a real omnipresence of the State . . . The State . . . intervened by employing widely all its public law prerogatives ... all prices were fixed by fiat at all levels . . . Control took on frightening proportions. There was a whole army of inspectors. There was nothing but inventories, censuses of men and animals ... estimations of harvests to come ... In villages, when farmers who were disgusted with all these vexations ran away, those who remained were responsible for absentees' production . . . (one of the first effects of harsh price controls on farm goods is the abandonment of farms and the consequent fall in the supplies of food). The pressure . . . applied extended, in case of need, to cruelty and torture. 
Eyptian workers during this period suffered badly from the abuses of the State intervention of the economy, especially from the 'bronze law', an economic theory which maintained that wages can never go above the bare necessities for keeping workers alive. The controls on wages set by the Government reflected the prevailing economic doctrine. 
After a period of brilliance', Levy concludes, 'Egyptian economy collapsed at the end of the third century B.C., as did her political stability. The financial crisis was a permanency . . . Workers, disgusted by the conditions imposed on them, left their lands and disappeared into the country . . .' 
All honourable members know what the country is like around the Nile Valley. We go on a little further and discuss Chandragupta's explanation of the difficulties of keeping down the price of prostitutes in India, how it would not and could not work. Or we can discuss a speech from Lysias addressing a jury. In this book we have this oration: 
But it is necessary, gentlemen of the Jury', he urged, 'to chastise them - 
That being the people who had raised their prices above the legislative level- not only for the sake of the past, but also as an example for the future; for as things now are, they will hardly be endurable in the future. And consider that in consequence of this vocation, very many have already stood trial for their lives; and so great are the emoluments which they are able to derive from it that they prefer to risk their life every day rather than cease to draw from you, the public, their improper profits ... If then, you shall condemn them, you shall act justly and you will buy grain cheaper; otherwise, the price will be much more. 
In Greece, the death penalty did not manage to make the merchants of that country keep the price of grain down. In Rome, poor Diocletian is described by Gibbon in this book as follows:  . . the emperor ventured on a very dangerous and doubtful step, of fixing by legal authority, the value of corn (grain). He enacted that, in a time of scarcity, it should be sold at a price which had seldom been known in the most plentiful years; and that his own example might strengthen his laws (he sent into the market a large quantity of his own grain at the fixed price). The consequences might have been foreseen and were soon felt. The imperial wheat was purchased by the rich merchants; the proprietors of land, or of corn (grain) withheld from that city the accustomed supply, and the small quantities that appeared in the market were secretly sold at an advanced and illegal illegal price '. 
It goes on to describe how, with the use of the army, Diocletian was unable to enforce laws that would maintain the price of anything and how the steps resulted in wholesale bloodshed but not in price stability. 
Germany, after the Second World War, probably had the most effective price control the world has ever seen. The price control was obeyed because the German people at that stage were disheartened. There was a strong sense that they ought to stay with the rules that were put down by their new conquerors. The black market accounted for only about 10 per cent of the goods that were traded. However, that 10 per cent accounted for 90 per cent of the money supply. This led to the development of what was called the compensation trade. Everybody knew that to get cement he must offer coal. The price that had been determined by the price fixing authority roughly equated one ton of cement with one ton of coal. But that was not a natural market and there was no way it could be maintained. One ton of coal was worth roughly half a ton of cement and so the traders threw in roughly half a ton of potatoes to make up the difference. In fact probably the only reason that Germany did not starve during those three years was that the people abandoned money and went outside the system of controls. The reason that half of Germany took off and its economy expanded rapidly while the other half did not was that the controls were abandoned. 
Putting fiscal controls on a market economy is like squeezing a balloon. If the public demand is not able to be expressed in the items that are controlled the public will bid up the prices of other things so that average prices are not depressed. If it is felt that the price of those goods should reflect some return that is acceptable to both the buyer and the seller we will get changes that are not reflected in the legislated price; we will get a change in quality. I am sure many honourable members will recall how the quality of goods under price control during the Second World War fell. If the price was not able to be changed the quality, the terms on which the goods were bought or the place or terms of delivery were changed. In fact even in war time when there is a strong incentive upon people to comply with the rules laid down by their government it has not been possible to determine prices by legislative fiat. 
It might be thought that I have been advocating that the Prices Justification Tribunal ought to be abandoned. In fact, I am not. There is a large non-market sector in the Australian economy. I believe the Tribunal ought to be retained and that it ought to be given a brief to look at that part of the Australian economy where there is not a market, where there is not competition and where prices are not determined by market forces. I suggest that the brief might be widened so that the PJT can look at the pricing practices and the efficiency of such organisations as the Australian Postal Commission, the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the Australian National Railways Commission, the Australian National Line, Qantas Airways Ltd, the Commonwealth Development Bank and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It might look at those marketing authorities that owe their existence to the legislative fiat of this Government. I refer to the Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Wool Corporation and the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. I think that there is a place for a surveillance body but only in circumstances where there is not a market. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What are the terms of the agreement with the State of Tasmania to provide moneys to The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company. 
Will he table the agreement in the Parliament, which must approve the moneys. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What are the terms of the agreement with the State of New South Wales to provide moneys to Chrysotile Corporation. 
Will he table the agreement in the Parliament, which must approve the moneys. 
-I move: 
Omit all words after ' way ' ( first occurring). 
The effect of my amendment is to delete part (2) of the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  Part (2) of the motion is designed to specify the means by which the principle in part ( 1 ) is given effect. I have become aware that members of the medical profession in particular, but also importantly, members of the House are concerned that part (2) may not be practical. To me it would be a tragedy if the motion were to fail merely because of objections to part (2). I have therefore moved the amendment. 
Many honourable members oppose the funding of abortion because they believe that such killings are contrary to the will of God and that therefore the government of the people should not abet what is morally wrong. I share at least some of their fears of what a public sanctioning of abortion may do to the society that grants the sanction. The degree of my fears is related to the degree of sanction. I support the thrust of the motion of the honourable member for Hume, even though I have no confidence in a revealed truth. My arguments are entirely secular. They do not, so far as I have been able to think them through- and the question is quite difficult- rely on any general prohibition, divine or secular. However, they do, like all arguments rest ultimately on judgments that are my own, in as much as I accept them. 
These are my value judgments. I ask honourable members to consider each of them and see whether they themselves cannot also accept them. My first value judgment is that the purpose of society is to serve the well-being of" its members. The second is that the individual's own perception of his well-being is of paramount importance. It is not a judgment but a matter of observation that people prize their own lives very highly indeed. The third is that in matters of fundamental importance, such as security of life and limb, all members of society have equal rights and claims upon society. My fourth value judgment is that any government is responsible to its people for the protection of that physical security. 
Although many societies which did not or do not offer their members the reasonable certainty that they would not be arbitrarily done away with have survived for a remarkably long time, I suspect this has been possible only because their citizens have been denied the opportunity of leaving. I ask honourable members to consider the Soviet Jews and the Ugandans who cannot leave and the refugees from many societies that have broken down. They left those societies because the societies were no longer able to offer their members reasonable security of their own lives. In short, society itself depends upon the sanctity of human life or on the most damnable repression. I suspect that so far not many would quarrel with me. 
If human life is to be valued so highly, is it to be everybody's life or only some peoples' lives? What about the old? They have not long to live. Should not they make room for younger and more durable lives? What about the other fellow's tribe? Are they not inferior? Hitler used that argument to exterminate 6,000,000 Jews. What about the lame, the sick, people with one arm? Should they not make way for more perfect specimens? What about the unwanted? I am sure we would all be very attentive spouses if our better halves had a licence to dispose of us when we were not wanted. What about the very young? They do not yet know what they are missing. Am I not forced to fall back on my third value judgment, namely, that we must all be equally entitled to the protection of our lives by the society within which we live- at least until we do something to forfeit that right? Any cheapening or any qualifying of the right to live becomes a threat, however marginal, to society itself. 
I do not argue that all qualifications of the right to live are an equal threat. For instance, legal killing after careful trial in accordance with the rule of law would not seem to pose a very great threat to the value placed on life. Von Stauffenbergs attempt to murder Hitler was, in my view, a noble act against an evil man and the circumstances might reasonably be regarded as exceptional. Assistance given to someone who wished to die might be reasonably regarded as an act of mercy. It is true that acceptance of the right to kill in all these cases also must in some part cheapen human life, but the cases are reasonably quarantinable from a general right to live. I do not think the same can be said of abortion; firstly, because abortion is such a general case. It is not exceptional. Many have abortions. Many more would if they felt that it was not wrong. 
Secondly, no adequate dividing line separates the child from the foetus. In a biological sense at least the foetus wants to live. It struggles to do so when deprived of its life support system. It is impossible to sustain the argument that the foetus is not a living creature merely because it requires the support of the mother in order to survive.  His  condition of dependency will apply for some time after his birth and applies also to any person however temporarily dependent on personal life support apparatus, be he a deep sea diver or a person undergoing major surgery. It is impossible to sustain the argument that the foetus, though living, because it does not reason is not human. An unconscious man or, even for the most part, a sleeping man does not reason. 
Let me say in passing that the argument that a woman is entitled to do what she will with her own body begs the question: Is she entitled to do what she likes with another human life? As abortions will be performed in any case as it is beyond the capacity of government to prevent them and as under some circumstances it is legal, it is argued that in order to achieve equity, public moneys should finance the operation. The extension of this argument is that government should finance everything that is not actually illegal. Government has no such obligation. 
The ultimate obligation of any government is to protect the lives of its people. Even though mankind may well be assured of a more comfortable future if it were less numerous, once government gets into the business of deciding who is to die, society is at risk because people will not be able to trust that society with their own lives. 
When a government pays for abortions, it has taken a short step along the road to determining who is entitled to live. I doubt that that step should be taken. Abortion is sometimes misassociated with libertarian views. The libertarian position is that an individual should be able to do as he likes only unless he affects the freedom of another to do likewise. In this case, the other is the unborn child. I recant from none of my liberal views. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Are the variable levies on imports of agricultural produce imposed by the European Economic Community an unreasonable barrier to international trade? Is Australian orange juice an agricultural product? Are Australian variable levies a barrier to international trade and, if not, what is their purpose? 
-In speaking to these Appropriation Bills I intend to discuss how the Australian economy came to its present position in the hope that that may give the Parliament some guidance on how we should proceed from here. I will use the minimum of polemic at the risk of disappointing the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I will endeavour to bear in mind his admonition about 'ruthless pinpricking'. During the 1950s and 1960s unemployment was low. It was between one per cent and 2 per cent. The inflation rate was low. It was less than 5 per cent, in spite of the years of the Korean War. Economic growth was, however, poor. Real growth in gross domestic product per head between 1950 and 1955 was a mere 3 per cent. Between 1955 and 1969 it was a mere 2.7 per cent. Between 1969 and 1976 it was a mere 1.8 per cent per annum. During those years we managed our economy in macro terms very well. The Budget was tightly controlled. Deficits were, for practical purposes, non-existent. The money supply was therefore easy to manage and it was well managed. However, over those years we did not manage the economy in the micro sense nearly as well. During that time two things developed: Firstly, a very strong trade union bargaining power that lives with us to this day and, secondly, the growth of a badly structured industry behind high tariff and quota walls. 
It is still with us today. By the late 1960s there were already signs that these two weaknesses were catching up with us. The unions' capacity to demand higher wages was imposing an upward pressure on prices. Governments were faced with the stark choice of either accommodating that pressure with an increased money supply, hence causing inflation, or limiting growth in the money supply and allowing wage demands to be reflected in unemployment. 
Other countries such as Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany showed that there was another way of meeting the public's demand for increased goods and services- a higher standard of living. They were able to achieve rapid economic growth. That possibility was not available to Australia because of our trade barriers and our unions. It was already becoming evident that more and more inflation was required in order to induce an improvement in employment. For the purist the Phillip's curve was becoming steeper. 
The honourable member can look it up. In 1972 the Whitlam Government came into power. Economic management changed at that time. Wage demands were encouraged and wages rose much faster than they had risen previously. That resulted in unemployment. The honourable member for Hindmarsh might like to refer to that as the Clyde Cameron syndrome. The money supply was expanded, the result of which was inflation. That might be referred to as the Jim Cairns syndrome. The public sector spending expanded rapidly, too rapidly, and this for a time placed excessive pressure on resources. It also resulted in a steep rise in taxes, the deficit and hence interest rates. The change was far too rapid and so disruptive that for quite an extended period real interest rates were actually negative. 
The Labor Party, to its credit, did attempt to improve the structure of industry. The 25 per cent tariff cut in the long run will improve the structure of Australian industry. However, since that time some of the good has been undone by the imposition of quotas to protect some of the most highly protected industries and some of the most non-competitive industries. While the effective rate of protection of 35 per cent in 1971-72 was brought down in 1974 by the 25 per cent tariff cut to 27 per cent, and is still at about that level, the range in protection is greater than it was at that time. Therefore, the damage that it does to the Australian economy by protection is somewhat greater than it would have been at the time we took office. 
The legacy that the Fraser Government inherited in 1975 was one of high unemployment, high wages for those in work- and those wages were indexed- a high level of Government expenditure and a political commitment to such expenditure. It is much more difficult in political terms for governments to remove benefits once granted than it is not to grant them in the first place. With that high level of Government expenditure were the attendant problems of high taxes and a high deficit. We of the Fraser Government inherited a changed set of community expectations, some beneficial, some otherwise. We inherited the expectation that wages would continue to rise with inflation and growth. But we also inherited a preparedness to accept tough measures. Probably the greatest single mistake we made was not to take those tough measures very quickly when we came to office. We inherited the expectation that the mess would be cleared up too rapidly. But we also inherited a wholesome fear of inflation and a trade-off between employment and inflation that was negative. In fact, if one increased inflation one would have frightened the devil out of the employers so that they actually would have employed fewer, not more. 
Economic growth offered us the only real opportunity to reduce unemployment. Economic growth of course has other virtues. It also gives us the capacity to defend ourselves better and to educate ourselves better. In fact it widens the choices that are available to the Australian people in any field. There is in theory another way by which unemployment could be quickly overcome, and that is by substantially reduced real wages. Anything that will reduce real wages will reduce unemployment. However, substantially reduced real wages are unfortunately within the realm of pure fantasy. We are not capable of achieving that, and that is a sad thing for those who are out of work. The problem was, and still is, how to achieve sustained real growth. Business needed, and still needs, a stable environment in which to plan. Above all else it needs a currency which retains its value. It needs a reduction in inflation. We did not have access to the Keynesian trade-off of growth by demand expansion. Inflation stimulates only when that inflation is unexpected .The business community had learned to expect rates of inflation and could not be fooled by inflation that was induced by government action. It knew that inflation would be general. It would have been no incentive for it to increase its activity. So the Keynesian trade-off was not available to us. In fact, as I have said before, if anything the effect was the reverse- more inflation merely frightened people. 
First of all, we have to get inflation down. Inflation has been controlled by the firm control of the money supply. It could not be brought down too fast because too many people were committed at that stage to borrowings at high interest rates. A very rapid reduction in the rate of inflation by a very tight monetary contraction would have resulted in business failures, particularly of those businesses that were committed to borrowings entered into earlier and in different times. We had firmly but steadily to bring inflation down. Apart from a short aberration recently, that is what we have done. The other stimuli that normally are available to a government were not available to us. These are lower tax and lower interest. They were both barred by a bloated public sector. In this area our rhetoric was fine but our performance weak. The total public sector deficit has continued to grow. This total is the deficit of the Commonwealth, the States and the local and semi-government authorities. In 1968-69 it was $7 18m. In 1977-78 it was $5,433m and for 1978-79 it is predicted to be $5, 604m. The public sector deficit continued to grow and that is why we still have high interest rates. We have no way of tackling it bar tackling public sector expenditure itself. The total public sector share of gross domestic product remained high. In fact, it still continues to grow, although marginally. In 1971-72 it was 32.7 per cent. It grew under Labor to 38.7 per cent and is now 39.5 per cent. 
We did not face the task of getting public sector expenditure down. There is only one way that public sector expenditure can be got down and that is to tackle the big items. It is of no use fiddling around with the little ones. It is necessary to tackle the big ones. It is possible to tackle the big items of health, education and welfare in a way that will not do anything to disadvantage the needy but in fact will improve their position- by placing means tests on benefits paid to those who are not needy. There is no way that the needs of the poor in our community will be satisfied while we are prepared, to use an expression that has already been used today, to transfer funds from the rich to the rich. We have to be prepared to make large cuts in those transfer payments to people who are not needy. Unless we are prepared to do this we will continue to have a bloated public sector and we will continue to have the resultant high interest rates and high taxes. 
We also have to bite the bullet in the area of trade union monopoly power. This is not completely within our control and it will be most difficult. We face a real risk that as the economy continues to grow, all the economic gains will be creamed off to those who are in jobs and leave nothing to create more jobs. I have here a quote from  Dr Samuelson-  hardly a right wing economist- that I would like to read to the House. 
No, he is not a left wing economist. He is an economist who is widely respected in all circles as one who is able to take a broad view of economic arguments. He said: 
What distinguishes the 1970s from the 1960s is the lack of confidence in a stable, secure future. Fearing more rapid inflation- and possibly a recessionary reaction- business executives require a quick payoff from investments, or otherwise don't make them. Lower investment means lower growth and lower capacity to grow. 
The widely accepted standard of keeping wages abreast with inflation does more than sustain inflation. It also compels governments to run their economies cautiously for fear of accelerating inflation through shortages of labour or goods. The ethic springs from the best of intentions and is profoundly conservative: it attempts to maintain the status quo for the vast majority. But it may have the worst of consequences. It exiles a significant minority from the benefits of prosperity though they are placated by welfare. And, more ominously, it may gradually corrode the basis of prosperity itself 
Samuelson. There is a need also to lift the burden of uncompetitive high cost industry. The economy is now growing. For some years we have said that we will do something about those tariffs as soon as the economy is moving. The economy is now moving and now is the time to tackle the tariff problem. That has been admitted by the Government in its White Paper and by every economics writer of any note that I have read in this country. Now is the time to tackle it. Reshuffling the burdens might help some industry but it will always be at the expense of others. Export Now programs, export incentives schemes, bounties, tariffs, preferential government purchasing and concessional lending arrangements are all paid for by others in the community. All are attempts to reshuffle the pack in the vain hope that somehow the weak cards will go away. Worse than that, we somehow seem to rub the spots off the strong cards. Tolstoy said: 
I sit on a man 's back, choking him and making him carry me, and yet assure myself and others that I am sorry for him and wish to ease his lot by all possible means- except by getting off his back. 
Industry desperately needs, above all else, for government to get off its back. In the apocalypse of St John there were four horsemen- famine, pestilence and so on. But if the veil were to be lifted so that Australian businessmen, Australian unemployed and young Australians generally might see the determinents of their destiny they might tremble before but three horsemenexcessive public sector expenditure, excessive wages and excessive import restraint. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a statement by a wellknown political leader on defence and communications bases? What assessment has been made of this statement and, in particular, its implications for Australian security? 
-When I make the commonplace observation that when the price of one commodity is increased relative to the price of other commodities, the purchasers of that commodity will endeavour to substitute others for it, or that if the price of beef rises relative to fish housewives will tend to buy less beef and more fish, no one seems to argue. Similarly, if the price of a factor of production rises relative to other factors, similar substitution takes place. Rising fuel prices can be expected to encourage farmers to plough less and instead to use more chemical weedkillers. Why then is there disagreement about the effect of wage levels upon employment? When the price of labour rose dramatically in 1973 and 1974 businesses received the price signal loud and clear and set about substituting machinery for workmen. It took them sometime to do it, both because machinery takes some time to order, make and install, and because employers are reluctant to sack existing employees. However, by the process of attrition the trend was inexorable. Accounting machines replaced secretaries; farmers noted that the optimum sized tractor was now bigger; shires discovered that, where they once worked say, three four-wheel trucks, the optimum unit had become two sixwheelers. No one saw the process as part of a nationwide movement, but each interpreted his own price signals and adjusted the factors of his own enterprise to reflect the new order. 
Of course, labour substitution is not new. As our community became more wealthy, progressively more and more capital was made available to the productive processes of each workman. Total output and output per worker, or productivity, increased and this in turn permitted higher wages with full employment. As investment increased each worker produced more. It was possible to service the new capital and to pay the worker a higher real wage out of the increased production. The shares of monetary return from the sale of total product, accepted by labour and capital remained fairly constant over quite a long time. 
In 1973 and 1974 Australia experienced a quite different phenomenon, namely, massive wage increase not associated with commensurate productivity increase, followed by the most severe recession since the 1930s. Company profits share of gross domestic product fell from a long run average of about 16 per cent to about 13 per cent. Normally during short periods of low demand and hence high unemployment, productivity had fallen, reflecting employers' reluctance to pay off their labour force at the same rate as their order books emptied. Yet, on this occasion, output per hour worked the most widely accepted measure of productivity has risen, whilst unemployment has remained depressingly high. Capital's share of GDP has also started to rise but has not nearly reached the old figure of 16 per cent. Productivity could have risen either because increased wealth had provided more machinery for each man to work, or on the other hand, labour productivity could have risen because there was now less labour for each machine. Factor shares could revert back to the long run trend either because profits and other capital rewards had risen relative to wages or, equally, because there was now more capital to service. 
The evidence of the very existence of a pool of unemployed is that the latter in each case is the situation. The relative cost of machines and manpower has shifted in favour of machines and capital has replaced manpower. Firms are now committed to their new machines and it will take some time for the excess capital to work its way through the system. If this productivity gain caused by labour shedding is used to justify further real wage rises it will never work its way through the system and long run unemployment will be then inevitable. The irony is that only a willingness to share the existing wage bill with the unemployed will maximise production and hence, in the long run, maximise wages for everybody. 
It will come as no surprise that I reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The amendment condemns the Government for continuing to pursue a restrictive fiscal policy. I have not heard a $3 billion deficit referred to as a restrictive fiscal policy since the former member for Lalor left this House. I thought Jim Cairns rode again.  His  policies did not do any good. Yesterday evening honourable members opposite had some enjoyment accusing me and others of a hard line approach. It may be that we are espousing a hard line approach. They said that they were going to drag the speeches we had just made around our electorates. If I had some viewpoint that for some strange reason I thought I ought to keep from my electorate I would hardly include it in a speech in the Parliament. The Opposition will not have much opportunity to inform my electorate about my speeches because I intend to do so myself. 
I have certainly advocated some views that in the short term might be regarded as unpopular. I certainly have put views to this Parliament and to my electorate that are not shared by everybody. Almost any view that is worth putting has to be in that class. There is not much use merely mouthing points of view with which no one would ever quarrel. The Opposition does my electors a grave disservice if it believes that they would regard my taking them into my confidence as some reprehensible behaviour. My electors may certainly disagree with views I have expressed, but I am certain that they would agree with Edmund Burke that it is my responsibility to express those views. While they may quarrel with me on the issue, I do not for one minute believe they will hold my expression of economic views, or any other views for that matter, as being reprehensible. I suspect that the Opposition, if it is to pursue its efforts will probably become bored with the exercise without costing me one vote. 
The views I have been expressing relate to public sector expenditure and to the deficit in particular. It is necessary that the deficit come down. I will explain why. The deficit can come down in only two ways; either by cutting public sector expenditure or by increasing taxes. There is no other way. Either of those courses is unpopular. The consequences pf not taking either course ought to be a great deal more unpopular. Because so many of my constituents have children and want an Australia that is strong, safe and has a stable economy they will listen to arguments that say that the deficit ought to come down in the interests of Australia's future. 
The public sector deficit has grown alarmingly in this country. In the 1971-72 fiscal year it was $660m. In 1 974-75 it was $3,472m. In 1 978-79 it had grown to $5,604m. So much for the restrictive fiscal policy of the honourable member for Adelaide. Deficits, because they must to a very large extent be financed from public sector borrowings, are cumulative. The problem created for the economy by one deficit adds to the problems created by previous deficits. At this stage 6.47 per cent of Commonwealth Budget outlays are tied up by debt service. That very substantial Budget commitment of course itself adds to the size of the current deficit. 
We cannot divorce deficits from their effect on the whole economy. It is not good sense to say that it is only a matter of financing deficits because financing deficits, in itself, creates very serious problems. If central government runs a deficit it will have effects upon the money supply, the balance of payments, wage demands and public confidence within Australia and overseas. The domestic deficit is about 5 per cent of the money supply measured in the broader M3 terms. But that is not the end of it. The deficit is financed by the sale of government bonds and treasury notes to the public. Because these are quite liquid they add to the inflationary impact of money. Thus, even if the deficit is entirely financed, it adds directly to effective money supply and hence to inflation. 
Money may not be the whole cause of inflation. But there are few economists in the world today who would argue that inflation was not to some extent affected by money supply. Almost no economist would argue that a blowout in the money supply would not cause inflation. So, that deficit must be financed. The sale of government paper to the non-bank sector must limit the amount of new borrowing that can be raised by the employment creating private sector. The very sale of those additional bonds will force up interest rates. If the Government does not offer a high enough interest rate for its paper, it will not be sold and the excess expenditure from the Budget will be left loose in the economy with inevitable inflationary effects. 
Some of the deficit may leak overseas. I think it was Professor Corden who said that a massive Budget deficit or Keynesian stimulus must result inevitably in a massive devaluation. Leakage overseas is no way to finance a deficit. Initially it causes investment that would be placed within our country to be placed elsewhere, which is hardly helpful. It forces our exchange rate down and, to the extent that it forces our exchange rate down, it is fed into Australian inflation in quite short time as the price for imported goods rises. The uncertainty of" the exchange rate has obvious adverse effects for both the exporting sector and the import competing sector as they do not know what their competitive prices will be and they do not know how quickly inflation will affect their costs. 
Australia has attempted to minimise the downward pressure on the Australian dollar by borrowings overseas. This is sound policy so long as it is not intended that fiscal deficits be continued indefinitely into the future, thereby maintaining a continuing pressure on the Australian dollar because quite clearly one cannot go on borrowing from overseas indefinitely. One might ponder the difficulties that Great Britain faced in a like situation. Running a tight fiscal policy and hence a relatively easy monetary policy does not have the same effect as running a very loose fiscal policy with big deficits and the inevitable tight monetary policy. A tight monetary policy has the effect of limiting the formation of capital. It certainly changes the mix between consumption and investment. It diverts Australian resources from our future wealth, our economic growth, towards immediate consumption. 
A loose fiscal policy would be seen as an opportunity to increase wages. People would believe that the Government was prepared to accommodate wage increase so that therefore wage increase would not have an adverse effect on employment. But what would then happen is that such an increase would feed into inflation and the effect upon employment would simply be delayed. Wages in this country are determined in such a way that if the Government is seen to be not managing its own affairs it is very likely that increased wage levels will be struck and as a result there will be increased unemployment. 
In response to the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerrin),  those of us who are advocating what last night was described as a hard line, are not in any way attacking the unemployed. What we are saying is that the employed will have to make some room for the unemployed within the total wages paid within the community and that, if there is to be an increase in employment, those who are already in jobs will have to make some sacrifice. That is what we are saying. 
Yes. As has been pointed out by my friend, the honourable member for Perth, that is also the view of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke. It is a responsible view and one which I share. 
Finally, I should like to deal with the deficit's effect upon confidence. One cannot fool all the people all the time. If they see the Australian Government deficit blow out, they will realise that there will be pressure on the Australian dollar. Overseas money that would have been invested in Australia will be invested elsewhere and we will lose investment opportunity. People within Australia will see that there is likely to be an increase in inflation. Once again investment will become more and more short term. New job opportunities will not be created. In fact there will be much less opportunity for economic recovery unless the Commonwealth Government controls its own expenditure and balances its own books. For the four reasons I have outlined, the Budget deficit becomes a barrier to economic recovery. The deficit is effectively cumulative and, as each year goes by, it will become more and more difficult to tackle the problem. The sooner the problem is tackled and the more firmly it is tackled, the better. My views are not masochistic, but merely responsible. 
I intend to go on putting them. I thank the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  for his encouragement. I recommend those views to the House. 
-Australia is a vast land mass but in every other respect it is a relative small country lying, with New Zealand, at the southern extremity of east Asia. It lies close to that part of the world which, above all, is achieving spectacular growth. Yet, we are not sharing in that growth. If we compare real growth per head of population of the 5 years from 1971 to 1976 we see that the Australian economy has grown at an annual rate of 1.9 per cent while Japan has achieved 3.9 per cent; Hong 
Kong, 6.9 per cent; South Korea, 9.2 per cent; the Philippines, 3.4 per cent; Thailand, 3.8 per cent; Singapore, 6.8 per cent and Indonesia 5.1 per cent. Taiwan and Malaysia, although not included in the  United Nations Year Book  figures, also did well. Because of living standards of the people of those countries are rising much faster than our own and because their capacity for aggression or defence is growing relative to our own, it is advisable to ask why. Do they possess some inherent advantage which we cannot share or do we have something to learn? It is not that they have access to valuable natural resources. Australia is far better endowed than all of them, with the exception perhaps of Indonesia which has oil. 
It is true that as they are all building their growth from a lower base the opportunity to import technology which has been developed in other countries, notably the U.S, might account for some of their success. But Japan, Kong Kong, Singapore, Korea, and Taiwan in many respects, have technology superior to our own. It is therefore an opportunity which should also be available to us if only we could or would avail ourselves of it. 
With the exception of Japan, these nations are all, in gross domestic product terms, quite small- in fact, of the same order as Australia. They all have at least one thing in common, that is, that a high proportion of their product and expenditure consists of traded goods or services. Most have become attractive homes for internationally mobile capital so they can afford to import a little more than they export. But in broad terms exports and imports must be of similar magnitude. Two other nations not of our region- Brazil and Spain- also have achieved spectacular growth and apparently have chosen international trade as their path to economic salvation. The secret of their success is possibly not entirely that they have accepted the truth of the principle of comparative advantage and, with its acceptance, have concentrated on doing some but not all things and doing those same things very well- selling internationally and at the same time buying from overseas goods better produced elsewhere. But the evidence says that trade is, at least, one key to economic success. 
The secret of our relative failure might be that we have not been willing to accept that we should be prepared to purchase many of our needs from those who can provide them cheaper. No country can for very long sell more than it buys. Were it to try to do so the value of its currency would be driven up so that the domestic prices of both imports and exports would fall, in time causing imports to rise and exports to fall. Balance is restored. A barrier to imports is thus a barrier to exports. 'Export now' campaigns, trade commissioner services and export incentives may maintain the value of the Australian dollar at levels higher than it would otherwise settle, which may be good for national pride but they will do nothing to increase trade unless we are prepared at the same time to admit more imports. 
Australia must be prepared to import and if we wish to stay relatively wealthy we must be prepared to import those things where our comparative advantage is least, that is, those commodities which at present must surmount the highest tariffs or most restrictive quotas, in particular, motor cars, clothing, textiles, footwear, paper products and fabricated metal products. The rapid growth of our region of the world presents us with a singular opportunity. Our own tariff and import quotas are shutting that opportunity out. It will be our children rather than our neighbours' children who will lose most by our policy. 
Again I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is he aware of the campaign launched to sink the Industries Assistance Commission's draft report on textiles? Is the last paragraph of his Department 's Press release of 9 August, No. 80 of 1979, a clear statement of the Government's position on this matter? 
-As one who has worked for these Estimates committees for quite some time now, I concede readily that their birth has followed a protracted and sometimes difficult gestation, but nonetheless, the Government has got the committees to the point where I think there is need for trial and error. If we do not proceed with the committees now, there will not be time to operate them this session. Frankly, I thought the proposal bent over backwards to consider the position of the Opposition - 
It was put forward and fostered by Government members, certainly, but during the last session of Parliament, when we were developing the idea, we had discussions with individual members of the Opposition. I think it is unreasonable to suggest that the Government has not been careful to be considerate of the position of the Opposition, although matters became protracted at the end and I concede that that may have given the Opposition some difficulty. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  raised two or three points that are worrying him. Firstly, I will refer to the report stage. I put it to him that the report stage provides quite considerable opportunity for anything that is considered important by the committees. Presumably the report stage will be occupied in considering motions carried in the Committee, motions putting recommendations to the Government. By that means the report stage would concentrate on those things that are important and are considered to be of current moment. The honourable member for Port Adelaide suggested that we ought to have more than two committees. He cited the logistic difficulty of getting backwards and forwards between the committees and being on hand at the right time. 
Changing the personnel. I concede that that is a problem. It is an insurmountable problem. There is no way in which six committees and the House could sit at the one time. With the numbers that the Opposition has at the moment, if the House plus six committees were to sit at the one time the Opposition would be hard pressed to man those committees. I really believe that the system of having a limited number of committees will suit the Opposition as presently constituted. If we are to consider a series of committees sitting one after another we will consider only a semantic difference because the membership of the proposed committees can be changed. There is no way in which we can overcome the logistical difficulty of getting backwards and forwards. It is an insurmountable problem. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide raised the question of the type of legislation that would be before the House when the committees were sitting. I cannot see any way in which that matter can be determined in a sessional order because it cannot be defined. The Government made it clear to me that it would not have legislation committees sitting while the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill was being debated in the House because of the importance of that Bill and because it was an issue that divided the two sides of the House. 
I do not think that it would matter very much if a pig levy Bill were being debated in the House at the same time. We considered adopting a procedure whereby the members of the committee would be paired from the House. We did not do that in order to ensure that matters important to the House and matters that the Opposition considers to be important to the House could receive the consideration of all members of the Opposition. Use of the procedure of calling quorums can bring about the adjournment of the committee. It is in the Opposition's hands. There is no way in which the Opposition can be bullied in that regard. We have bent over backwards to try to be fair to the Opposition in this matter. Most of the Government supporters who are considering the matter have had some experience in opposition, so we are reasonably familiar with - 
-That is most unlikely. Until that point the honourable member for Port Adelaide was being realistic, but that was an unrealistic interjection. Given the shortness of time, I put it to the Opposition that there are two practical solutions. Either it should do its level best to have the matter considered and decided upon today by the Standing Orders Committee so that the Estimates committees can proceed- there is not a lot of the day left- or, alternatively, it should agree to let the committees go ahead and to have a reference to the Standing Orders Committee at the same time. After all, the whole Estimates committee procedure is on trial. I am certain there will be changes to the procedure. We do not know what they will be doing until we have given the committees a go. 
-This is a relatively small but significant step in the improvement of procedures in this chamber. The chamber should note that it came from the work of private members of the chamber. For the record and with appreciation I would like the chamber to note the work that was done in developing these committees over quite some time by a group of back bench members on this side of" the House. On behalf of that group I thank both the Government and members of the Opposition who co-operated in that venture. 
-In a democracy, no government can coerce its people; it must lead them. If it is to lead them in a direction that will be to their ultimate benefit, it must do so with accurate information. Sometimes, political parties of all colours have an interest in misinformation, and in that context I wish to say something about the 25 per cent tariff cut. The decision taken some time ago by the then Labor Government to cut the tariff has had and will have ramifications for decisions taken by this Government and by future governments. That decision was taken in July 1973 and followed a period during which the nation's reserve assets had been climbing rapidly. In fact, from a level of $ 1,500m in December 1970 they had risen to $4,750m by December 1972. This clearly had inflationary implications for the economy, and the Government of the day had to do something about those inflationary implications. It had a number of revaluations and it made the 25 per cent tariff cut decision, all of which had an impact on the growing level of reserve assets and the upward pressure on the Australian dollar. 
The 25 per cent tariff cut was equivalent to a revaluation of about 4 per cent in terms of the effect that it had on the gross operating surplus. I invite those honourable members opposite who are attempting to distract me not to panic. The appreciations undertaken by the Government over that time were in the order of 20 per cent. The effect of the 25 per cent tariff cut on the gross operating surplus was relatively minor compared with the effect of the revaluations; but, in any case, the cut was made in lieu of a further revaluation and there was a revaluation at a later date. Even in the tariff-affected industries, the revaluations had something of the order of three times the effect of the tariff cut, but the wage rises of that time had an even greater effect on the profitability of those industries than either the revaluations or the 25 per cent tariff cut. The tariff cut was equivalent to a wage rise of between 6 per cent and 13 per cent, depending on how one worked it out. But, in the textile and clothing industries, from December 1972 to September 1974 wages rose by an average of no less than 60 per cent- 56 per cent for males and 73 per cent for females. 
I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it is foolish in the light of that information to suggest that the 25 per cent tariff cut was the cause of the unemployment that was apparent in the years immediately following that decision. The unemployment was caused partly by the mismanagement of the money supply so that inflation blew out but, above all, it was caused by the excessive wage rises. The Australian economy is recovering. We have capital inflow. This is very beneficial to us. We have become far more competitive on the overseas markets. Those are good things. But the Australian dollar, if we manage to achieve a continuation of those effects, will have an upward pressure. We will have to look again at whether we will increase imports by reducing protection for the import competing industries or whether we will merely upvalue the dollar. It would be pity if these decisions were taken in the light of misinformation instead of accurate information. 
I ask the Acting Treasurer and Minister for Finance: What does the taxpayer, through the agency of the Commonwealth Government, stand to lose as a result of guarantees afforded to the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd? If the taxpayers' money is at risk, what has the Government budgeted to cover this expenditure? Are any other guarantees or loans to public companies currently expected to result in loss to public revenue? If so, which ones? 
-I also wish to refer to the attack by  Mr Aitchison  on the Industries Assistance Commission. I am glad that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  is also offended by this attack and has chosen to raise it before me. As a result, much of what I would have said has already been said by the honourable member for Mackellar. I think that it does the textile and clothing industries little service to have the Industries Assistance Commission attacked in the manner in which it has been attacked by their spokesman, when surely their spokesman had the alternative of attacking the calculations and arguments that the IAC used in its report. If, in fact, the industries believed that those calculations are in error and that there has been an error of logic or of data, it is within their capacity to make other calculations and measure the cost to the Australian community of protecting these industries differently and in the public forum to defend their arguments. That is a very reasonable process. The whole IAC inquiry procedure is designed so that that is possible. 

 Mr Aitchison says that the method is demoralising. I submit that it can only be demoralising to an industry that has demonstrated that it is costing the Australian community more than perhaps the Australian community might wish to bear. It is surely necessary that that cost be measured so that the Australian community, through prices and subsidies, knows what it is paying for the protection of those industries. It is surely necessary that the cards be placed face up on the table. That is all the Industries Assistance Commission does. It is a type of court except that it deals with much higher figures than the High Court of Australia. The Government takes the decision as to what protection will or will not be afforded a particular industry. It is a pity that  Mr Aitchison  should be arguing in effect that that decision be taken in the absence of public, clear and intellectually sound evidence. 
Australia is suffering and has suffered for many years a low rate of growth. It is argued by many people that one of the principal causes of that low rate of growth and the reason our real standard of living is slipping behind that of other countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and even more rapidly slipping relative to the other members in our part of the world, is that we have this high protection system. The cost we are paying for protecting these industries is affecting our standard of living, not marginally, but very seriously. It is affecting our capacity to defend ourselves and to defend the future of our children. It is arguable that that may or may not be the case. But the issue should be argued on the economic principles involved and the data involved. If"  Mr Aitchison  wishes to do that, I, the Commission and every other reasonable Australian would be very happy to listen. But in attacking the Commission, accusing it of bias, not presenting evidence on the issues and not coming forward with another acceptable and equally arguable set of figures,  Mr Aitchison  is throwing his own case into considerable doubt. Every cost is borne by someone else. If the clothing and textile industries are costing the Australian family as much as the IAC calculates that they are, that cost is borne by other industries through the higher wages that they must pay. It is destroying employment in those other industries. This must be measured so that the Government takes a decision on a very major part of the Australian economy in the light of sound information. That is what the IAC is about. 
I wish to devote a few minutes to the committee procedures themselves and how we arrive at this report stage. There has been- you will be well aware of this,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  a growing concern over many years now about the increasing irrelevance of the Parliament in the process of the government of the Australian nation. This is a matter that has worried other parliaments and other people who are concerned for the process of government in countries where the system of government is democratic and, particularly, where the Westminster system of democracy is operating. 
I recall that in 1975, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when Leader of the Opposition, spoke of this problem during a debate on a matter of public importance. I shall quote a couple of excerpts from that speech to indicate the interest of the Prime Minister in this matter and to indicate that the problem has been worrying the Parliament for some time. The Prime Minister spoke of 'a concern for the reputation, for the role and for the effectiveness of this House of Representatives'. Later on in the speech he said: 
We could well look to see whether or not we should have a system of supplementary questions to probe individual Ministers . . . 
Further on he said: 
There is an inadequate role, I believe, for private members of Parliament, whether they be on the Government side or on the Opposition side. 
Further on still he said: 
 I believe that one of the most effective things we could do would be to establish an effective committee system. 
The Parliament is not the body that determines legislation. Very few private member's Bills come before the House and when they do there is a tendency for them to sit low on the Notice Paper. The Bills in fact are drafted by the Government and its agents. The Parliament does not have the power to initiate the voting of money. That requires a message from the Governor-General. That is a necessary provision and I do not quarrel with it. But then one must ask: What is the Parliament's role? The Parliament's traditional role  is  that it grants money to the Government. It is the public's watchdog of their revenue. That is the long-standing, historical role of Parliament. Yet we have not exercised our responsibilities as the public's watchdog of these moneys very effectively for a very long time now. I think that is one of the reasons why we see headlines such as 'The Tax Revolt'. That is why the arguments of Professor Laffer have become so popular with the community and why so few editorial writers and so few members of the public have said that Parliament will see that the public's moneys are not wasted. Yet that is our historic role. 
The Estimates committee system was an attempt to bring the expenditure of public moneys under somewhat more detailed scrutiny than had been possible under the procedures of the Committee of the Whole. Under that latter procedure, honourable members came into the House and made a series of 10 minute speeches that were unrelated. Though many of them were excellent speeches, they did not bring the budgetary process under any consistent, structured criticism. It has been said by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  that the Estimates committees were of limited value. I do not quarrel with that; of course they were of limited value. To start with, Parliament has a limited role but I suggest that it is not exercising that limited role to the full. Also, the committee system is new. But the honourable member for Fraser also said that the committees enabled him to get some information on the expenditure of public moneys. I submit that that is how Parliament is to exercise its control over the use of public moneys- through the use of information. Unless the members of the Government party of the day, whatever party it may be, break Caucus or break ranks there is not going to be a vote to reduce expenditure or to change expenditure. The way in which expenditures will be changed is by bringing the expenditure process and the individual items under question, by testing them for effectiveness. That is a process that is proper to Parliament and is within its competence. 
Recently I had the opportunity to see the development of this process in Westminster. It has gone far further than it has here and it is far more effective than it is here so far. Nonetheless, the procedures that Westminster has adopted are in essence and in broad the procedures that we are starting to adopt in Australia. I suggest that it would be of very great help to the Australian citizen, particularly in his role as a taxpayer, if the practice of incremental budgeting were to be brought under scrutiny so that last year's expenditure did not automatically become next year's expenditure, plus a bit for inflation. 
Zero-based budgeting has to be considered very carefully and at least some items have to be considered from a zero base each year. It would be very helpful if a formalised system of program evaluation were to be instituted so that each program was tested against its original aims to see whether it was having the effect that it was intended to have. A report has been submitted to this Parliament recently about a softwoods project in the Northern Territory that was supposed to give rise to employment for Aboriginals. Well, it produced neither softwood nor employment. Yet it went on year after year and no one questioned it. We ought to be in a position to put a stop to that sort of behaviour. All governments, whatever their political colour, are guilty of that sort of behaviour. 
Indeed; if we did not waste money on things that were not effective we would have far more money to spend on those things that were effective. That flows automatically. Finally, I suggest that it might be helpful, when new programs are considered, if some form of economic impact statement were brought down with those programs. If a department came forward with a new program it would be obliged to put down an impact statement saying: 'Right, it will benefit these people; this is the target population. But it will also have this effect on the taxpayer for X years down the line, as the population changes; it will have this effect on this and that market; and so on'. Those impact statements could be evaluated through the processes of the Department of Finance and the spending department would be required to justify what it was proposing. The spending Minister would be required to justify what he was proposing. The public sector in Australia represents almost 40 per cent of our gross domestic product. It is not all in Commonwealth hands. It represents almost 40 per cent of our annual increment to wealth. If we spend that 40 per cent inefficiently we ought not to be surprised if our wealth grows very slowly. 
-The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is uncharacteristically uncharitable. The measures are not the same as those that were proposed in 1974 and the then Opposition was not universally critical. These Bills institute the new five-year wheat agreements. Following the 1939-45 War the wheat stabilisation procedures were regarded as a basic wage for farmers and guaranteed them a minimum living wage. Since then there has been considerable questioning. In 1970 we found that we had to impose quotas in order to match the supply with the market that was available. Since that time there have been numerous calculations by different organisations indicating that wheat stabilisation was a poor to indifferent support for the wheat industry. The wheat stabilisation procedures have been under challenge in the Clark King case and now the Uebergang case in the High Court of Australia. The Industries Assistance Commission has provided a detailed report on the wheat industry. That report has given rise to much discussion amongst wheat growers. Page 19 of that report indicates that the stabilisation arrangements, as they existed, were not of enormous overall benefit to wheat growers. It states:  . . wheat stabilization arrangements cost wheatgrowers between $3m and $4m per annum between 1 969-70 and 1975-76. Since then the domestic price has been adjusted to a level greater than export prices and the stabilization plan has again provided assistance to growers. 
The wheat industry received virtually no assistance in effective rate terms over the period 1969-70 to 1975-76 although the rate ranged from about minus 1 1 per cent in 19 73-74 to plus 21 per cent in 1971-72 . . . These rates of assistance may be placed in perspective by comparing them with the rates for other industries. Over the same period the average effective rate of assistance for manufacturing industry is estimated at about 30 per cent. 
The realisation that the scheme had not been as beneficial as some growers thought, led to it being questioned, naturally enough. The wheat industry is an efficient industry in that its protection rates are low and it contributes to the protection of other industries. Orderly marketing is a term that has come to describe centralised marketing, or what might perhaps even be called socialised marketing. At least, it is a system where the decision is taken at the centre. The way in which the term 'orderly' is used sometimes reminds me of some states that have never held an election in their history yet manage to use the word 'democratic'. 'Democratic' is a nice word as long as it is not too precisely defined. 
Two broad faults- there were many minor ones- were identified with the questioning of the marketing arrangements for the wheat industry. They both relate to rigidity. The price paid to growers over the period of the several wheat stabilisation agreements came to bear little relationship to the marginal market price for wheat. This had serious adverse effects in the early 1 950s, when the marginal market price for wheat was well above the growers' price. Despite the exhortation of the then Prime Minister-  Mr Menzies,  as he was then- the growers did not produce any more wheat. This was natural enough because they were not paid sufficiently for them to devote their attention to wheat instead of wool, which was selling at high prices at the same time. The reverse happened in the late 1960s, when the growers' price for wheat was well above the marginal sale price for the commodity. Not surprisingly more of it was produced than could be sold on the overseas markets and the industry was forced to institute quotas. 
The arrangements before the House tonight largely overcome that problem. The growers' price, the guaranteed minimum delivery price, is to be 95 per cent of the average of the current and previous two years deliveries. In other words, the price will be kept very close to the overseas market price except that there will be insurance against a very violent short term downturn. This proximity between the growers' price and the export price for the marginal production should ensure that we do not have to institute quotas again to control the delivery of wheat, although the quota provision is left within the Act in case the worst comes to the worst. 
The other drawback with the stabilisation and marketing arrangements that the industry had availed itself of from the Second World War until this present agreement was that the system was too rigid to permit the satisfaction of a sufficient variety of demand. It was pointed out by the IAC that there was insufficient capacity to cater for regional demand that might be satisfied at a considerably lower cost. That problem is overcome in the arrangements that are before the House in that the Wheat Board will have the capacity to enable growers to meet immediate local demand, particularly from stock feed millers, for wheat that is on site and more cheaply delivered. 
It will also provide a more limited opportunity for a premium to be paid for a special variety of wheat or for a price to be negotiated for offgrade deliveries. The grower often finds himself with wheat that does not match the delivery into the bins of the fair quality or the various premium of off-grade varieties that the bulk handling system can handle. It is clearly in his interests and in the interests of the domestic buyer that it be possible to negotiate a price for this wheat. The wheat may well be under grade inasmuch as it is pinched in a drought year. Nonetheless it may have a very high protein content. There are people who can make very good use of that sort of wheat. I hope that the Wheat Board will readily issue permits under these circumstances. 
It will still not be possible for the grower to produce varieties which are not registered at this stage. It will still not be possible for a stock feed wheat market to develop from the wetter districts or in the irrigation districts. It may well still be difficult to develop markets for wheats that have certain speciality characteristics. But at least the situation is a lot freer than it was. The IAC recommended that domestic prices be not administratively determined. We are not going that far but I submit to the House that we have gone a quite long way along that road. I commend the Bill. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.2)-The Wheat Marketing Bill and the Bills being debated cognately provide for new marketing and pricing arrangements for the wheat industry for the next five seasons. It does this by reenacting the basic parts of the Wheat Marketing Act 1948 together with some far-reaching additions. For instance, the Australian Wheat Board still has the monopoly power which makes it the sole authority for the export marketing of wheat and wheaten products and the marketing of wheat domestically. The Government tries to make out that it supports the free enterprise system by inserting a clause which would appear to give the grower the right to deliver wheat to people other than the licensed receivers of the Board. If we read clause 19 we find that the Government is heading in the opposite direction, because the grower has to get the permission of the Board to sell, the money received has to be paid to the Board, and the wheat must not be sold at a price below that of similar wheat sold under similar circumstances. Further to that, clause 20 provides for a penalty of $1,000 to be imposed on any grower who does not carry out this procedure. In the case of a corporate body, the penalty is $2,000. I do not think anyone would be fooled by clause 1 9. As a matter of fact, I was very pleased to hear the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  make a statement that it was a kind of socialised marketing. However, as the honourable member for Moore has said, setting the minimum price at 95 per cent of the average of the estimated pool return for the subject year and the two preceding years converted to a net basis seems to meet with the general approval of the growers. 
Clause 26 (2) (a) sets out the home consumption price of $127.78 per tonne for the year commencing on 1 December 1979. The price for the next four years will be set in accordance with the formula contained in the Schedule, which of course has something to do with the costs and prices paid by the farmer and the export price movements, these movements being limited to 20 per cent in any one year. The Bill also states that the Board will apply a discretionary price to stock feed. There seems to be some confusion in regard to the reason for the 20 per cent differential. Previously there was only a 15 per cent differential in the ordinary price for wheat. There is also some confusion about the pricing of stock feed. I think the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  should have explained this aspect more fully in his second reading speech. 
The Bill provides for the Board to borrow money from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia to pay for the first advance to the growers. It also gives the Board power to borow money commercially if it is requested to do so by the Government. It states that this will be at no additional cost to the growers. Many of the growers in my electorate feel that this could be the thin edge of the wedge, because once the Board gets used to borrowing money outside the Reserve Bank at higher interest rates it would then be a very short step for the Government to say: 'You carry the extra cost of borrowing this money'. That is something that the Wheat Board will have to keep its eye on. 
Under the Bill the Board's Rural Credits Department borrowings will be guaranteed by the Government but it is the Government's intention to refinance any outstanding debt at the conclusion of the statutory period. Of course, this seems to be a very innocent provision. I think it is one that will give far-reaching protection to the Government. If we read on further we see that a wheat finance fund is to be set up. An amount of $80m will be transferred to this fund from the present stabilisation scheme and the growers will pay a levy to build this sum up to $ 100m. In addition to this the Board will have the power once again to borrow commercially to pay for any overlap in borrowings. I cannot see in the Bill whether this will be at an extra cost to the grower. - 
Nevertheless, the Bill will be of benefit to the wheat industry. I believe that it should have been introduced before now. I point out to the House that I cannot understand why Government members continue to blame the New South Wales Government for the delay in the introduction of this Bill. The hold-up was really brought about during the negotiations between the Minister and the growers. The growers wanted the home consumption price of the wheat to be indexed. If honourable members on the Government side had examined the increase in costs to the wheat grower they must surely have known that the growers had every justification for asking that the horrie consumption price be indexed.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would be aware of why the Government was reluctant to grant the indexation of the home consumption price. The Government had already opposed full indexation of wages. If it favoured the wheat grower, of course the trade unionists would want to receive the same kind of treatment. I believe that the Minister and the speakers from the other side have gone to a lot of trouble to cover up this fact. I notice that at least the  National Farmer  of 23 April was very honest in this regard. An article, under the heading 'New Wheat Plan', stated: 
The plan has been delayed because growers wanted an indexed home consumption price, but the Federal Government, which is opposing full indexation of wages, did not want to Be seen as favouring farmers over wage earners. 
It is quite clear from that article that the real holdup was the argument about the indexation of the home consumption- wheat price. There is no doubt that there has been a massive increase in farmers' costs. I refer here to the massive increases in fuel prices which have ignited a new bout of inflation which affects the price of all forms of inputs for the wheat farmer, as well as the farm worker and people living in country towns. The measures in the Wheat Marketing Bill will assist the wheat grower, but I believe we should stop making out that we have given the wheat grower some extraordinary assistance because it is not so. The assistance to the Australian wheat farmer is said to amount to $500 a year, but the tariff protection and other measures introduced by the Government in this period have amounted to many times that amount. The Australian wheat grower gets $500 a year but, by comparison, American wheat growers get $2,270 and Canadian wheat growers get $2, 143. On top of this, Australian wheat growers pay three or four times as much for their fuel. 
I know that there are other honourable members who wish to speak, so I will complete my speech. Wheat growers ' returns have risen by 1 1 5 per cent in the last 10 years, but over the same period costs have risen by 152 per cent. This information is contained also in a report in the newspaper which I have just mentioned. I believe that the wheat growers have met the problems of the 70s only by growing more wheat. This has been achieved by expanding the area of the soil planted  aVid  using bigger machinery for both the cropping and the taking of the crop off again. The Bill does give the wheat grower some assistance but it does not justify the Government piling on extra costs in all directions. I think that before we talk about what we have done for the wheat grower we should do something about these extra costs. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Finance. Is it a fact that the Commercial Bank of Australia is withdrawing its support from Chrysotile Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd? Is it also a fact that $1.7m of taxpayers' money, guaranteed to that company by the Commonwealth, is therefore lost? What is the current risk attaching to the $4. 5 m guaranteed to Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd? What criteria are employed by the Minister to determine which private sector business shall gain directly from public moneys? Is the Government to afford guarantees to the Back o' Bourke General Store and the No Hope Gold Mine? If not, why not? 
