
 -Mr Speaker, may I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your re-election as  Speaker  of this House and also on the knighthood that was bestowed on you by  Her  Majesty in the New Year's Honours. May I also congratulate the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. I assure him of my support during the life of this Parliament. It is indeed a great honour for me to be able to speak, as the honourable member for Indi, to the motion: That the Address-in-Reply to the speech of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral be agreed to. I am the thirteenth member for Indi as well as being the thirteenth Cameron in the Federal Parliament. I thank the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for that information and also for his warm welcome to this House. Let me assure him and also the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that I will always endeavour to uphold the name of Cameron in this place. 
As we have heard during the course of this debate, there are many beautiful electorates in the Commonwealth. Each honourable member has promoted his own electorate. I would like to expound briefly on the attributes of Indi which, in my opinion, has its own particular beauty and interest. It is approximately 28,000 square kilometres in area with just over 60,000 registered electors. The southern and western boundaries follow the Great Dividing Range and the electorate probably has the greatest variance in weather conditions in Australia. Some of the mountains are over 1,900 metres high and have annual snowfalls with a 3 metres precipitation. The northern boundary mainly follows the Indi River which becomes the great River Murray. Downstream from Yarrawonga the western boundary spears south to Kinglake West which is very close to outer Melbourne. 
Politically, Indi has had some illustrious representatives in this House. Isaac Isaacs was the first member for Indi, holding the seat from 1901 until 1906 when he became a justice of the High Court of Australia, and Chief Justice in 1930. Isaac Isaacs was knighted in 1928 and appointed Governor-General in 1931- the first Australian to be appointed Governor-General, a position which he held with great distinction until 1936. It is interesting to note that our present Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, is  Sir Isaac  Isaacs' biographer. The tenth member for Indi was John McEwen, who held the seat from 1937 to 1949.  Sir John  McEwen went on to become  Deputy  Prime Minister, and Prime Minister for a short period. My immediate predecessor was the Honourable Rendle McNeilage Holten who held the seat from 1958 until 1977, providing 19 years of service to this House and to the people of Indi. It is indeed an honour to follow in the footsteps of a man who has given so much service. On behalf of the people of Indi I say: 'Thank you, Mac Holten '. 
Indi is a prosperous electorate with the backbone of commerce and industry being primary production- sheep, beef, cropping, dairying, pig raising, timber, tobacco, hops, fruit, vegetables and vineyards being the predominant primary industries. Secondary industry also plays an important part in most towns but particularly in Wodonga, Wangaratta, Benalla, Yarrawonga, Myrtleford, Mansfield, Alexandra, Yea and Euroa- having such diversification as textiles, spinning, engineering, colour television manufacturing, pet food, clothing, foundries, ceramics, saw milling and many other industries. Indi experiences problems similar to those experienced by most other electorates in Australia today, particularly the rural electorates. Inflation and unemployment are the two issues foremost in mind. 
I fully support the Government. The policy adopted by the Government is showing effect already and I endorse the restraint in economic expenditure leading to the reduction of inflation which, in turn, will encourage the business sector to expand and renew investment, thus creating further opportunities for employment. Control of inflation will and must remain the Government's number one priority. The establishment of a national rural bank will be welcomed warmly by all sectors of rural industry. It is vital that loans are made available to potentially viable primary producers as well as presently viable producers. This bank could well be the most momentous step forward in rural financing in the history of this country. I feel strongly that the assessment of potential borrowers from this bank should be in the hands of people who have an intimate working knowledge of both the industry and banking. I cannot stress this point too strongly. It is very pleasing to see that the intention is to provide funds for the reconstruction of existing debts as well as for the purchase of land, stock, machinery and equipment. 
I commend the Government on its participation in the thorough investigation of beef carcass classification. This must lead to the early introduction of a national classification scheme which is so necessary for the satisfactory marketing of beef in this country. The successful introduction of this scheme would immediately allow investigation and implementation of other areas of marketing reform. It is heartening to note the Government's continuing endeavours to obtain access to overseas markets for rural products. All honourable members know how difficult success in this field can be but primary production is still the greatest single export earner and the pressure must be maintained until further overseas markets are achieved and existing markets are expanded. It must always be remembered that people need to be fed, clothed and sheltered and, basically, only primary production can satisfy these requirements. Significantly large areas of Australia are in the grip of drought and I was very pleased to hear in the Governor-General's Address that the Government places a high priority on assisting rural producers through this present difficult period. History has shown that the combination of drought and depressed markets has led to financial ruin in farming communities. 
Indi has a significant dairy industry involving over 800 licensed dairy farmers who, along with the total Victorian dairy industry, have a proven ability to market dairy products more economically than most other areas in Australia. The majority feeling in this industry is one of disquiet with regard to the share allocated to them under Stage II of the Australian Dairy Industry Marketing Arrangements as agreed to by the Australian Agricultural Council at its meeting in Adelaide on 23 January 1978. The Victorian dairy farmers are united in their desire to obtain a more equitable share of entitlements and I hope that through discussion a satisfactory agreement can be achieved. 
Indi, like all other electorates, relies on small business or service industries to maintain everyday life and it is particularly pleasing to see the Government making moves to assist in this field. Nevertheless, wherever I go throughout the electorate a major complaint is crippling trunk line telephone charges. This applies to the manufacturer, small businessman and farmer. They point out that it is impossible to conduct business at night to take advantage of reduced rates. They feel disadvantaged compared with the city businessman and cannot understand why Telecom cannot investigate means of making the use of telephone communication in country areas more equitable. The suggestion is put forward that all telephone usage should be on a time rather than a distance basis. Endeavours to encourage decentralisation of industry into country areas are severely handicapped by this extremely heavy cost factor. It is easy to say that nothing can be done but surely, through a study of systems in other countries, some relief can be achieved. I stress that this is the subject most discussed by businessmen, big and small, in my electorate. 
The Government must be congratulated on its move to assist in removing the freight differential on petroleum products. Once again it is a move designed to make country business and living more equitable with the major sea-based cities. When one looks at the discounting of petrol by some city service stations one wonders at the margin of profit which must be available to enable profitable trading still to exist. It must be remembered that country people and country industry are highly dependent on road transport and are therefore severely affected by high fuel costs. 
Tourism is the industry with probably the greatest immediate growth potential of any industry in Indi. Mount Buller, Mount Hotham, Mount Buffalo, Falls Creek and Mount Bogong offer some of the finest downhill and cross country skiing available in this country. This is a booming family participation sport and it has enormous tourist attraction. The mountains and valleys offer superb walking and climbing in a natural environment. The environment is much as it was when Australia was discovered. Rivers, streams and lakes offer boating, fishing and water skiing in abundance. It is pleasing to note that the Government is to appoint a select committee on tourism to examine the significance and potential of the tourist industry. 
Owing to the mountainous terrain of Indi there are many pockets of the community receiving a poor to impossible television signal. All honourable members know the frustration experienced when our own television sets break down. These people virtually live with this situation all the time. I understand that at the moment an inquiry is being conducted into the feasibility of Australia obtaining its own telecommunications satellite. Naturally our problems will be at an end if this eventuates. If this is not possible I will be asking the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  to investigate the feasibility of communities purchasing active deflectors or non-frequency changing translators on a co-operative basis under the supervision of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board but serviced by the co-operative. I understand that the equipment costs under $ 1 ,000 and can be placed on a hill or high terrain. It bends the television signal down into the poor reception area. 
The mountainous area of Indi lends itself to the catchment and storage of water. Lakes Eildon, Mokoan, Nillahcootie, Hume and Mulwala and the Dartmouth and Buffalo Dams bear proof of the achievements of Federal and State governments in this vital area. Australia is a dry continent and the conservation of water must be a top priority. Many of the more economic projects are completed and governments must be looking now at the more expensive but equally vital schemes. Eventually every available litre of water must be conserved. This will be a costly program and I commend the Government for its action in providing $200m over five years to the States for this purpose. Problems exist in all sectors of the community and it is our responsibility as members of parliament to endeavour to find solutions and, if possible, to prevent them. This is my personal aim and I intend to pursue it in the electorate of Indi as well as in Canberra. 
-Will the Prime Minister advise the House whether the Government has considered taking any action in respect of the future of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd abattoirs at Brooklyn, Victoria? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of a report in today's  Australian  that an industrial economic and forecasting company, Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd, has predicted an upsurge in house building later this year? Does the Minister agree that an upswing in house building can be expected during the year? 
-I strongly support the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill. Approximately 10,000 livestock producers scattered throughout Victoria, eastern South Australia and southern New South Wales are vitally interested in the success of this legislation. They are the shareholders in the Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd. I am a shareholder, to the extent of 100 shares. Like the other shareholders, I purchased those 100 shares to help to establish an abattoir and meat company wholly owned and operated by livestock producers. I venture to say that few, if any, shareholders purchased their shares as a profitable investment in monetary terms. Rather they bought them as an investment in servicing an industry in which they conducted their business. 
The Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd has certainly had an up and down business history. Many honourable members look on primary producer cooperatives with great caution. However, I must point out that there are many success stories concerning primary producer co-operatives. The Australian Fertiliser Company immediately comes to mind. As many honourable members will know, this co-operative is the sole manufacturer of superphosphate and other fertilisers in Victoria. It sells its product under the famous tradename of 'Pivot'. This co-operative has survived a very difficult trading period during which we saw its competitors, namely ICI Australia Ltd and Cresco drop out of the fertiliser manufacturing indusry. There are many other highly successful primary producer owned and operated co-operatives. One of the great problems experienced by these co-operatives is management. Primary producers in the main are experts in their own enterprise but do not have the training and expertise to operate in present day commercial practice. 
The Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd was formed in 1958-59. In 1968, after nine years of operation, the co-operative went into receivership. However, in the following year, 1969 a scheme of arrangement was approved by the Supreme Court of Victoria. Under this scheme the co-operative raised $700,000 from its shareholders and  Mr Leslie  Phillips Smart, a senior partner in the firm of chartered accountants Marquand and Co., was appointed administrator.  Mr Smart  had experience in the meat industry and the co-operative was able to trade itself into a strong financial position. The cooperative decided to expand and its members agreed to purchase the Bendigo and Ballarat abattoirs from the Victorian Inland Meat Authority. The purchase of the works and equipment was to be financed by the Australian Industry Development Corporation to the extent of $6.3m. Under the terms of the loan the AIDC reserved the right to appoint four directors. However, I am informed that this was never done. Instead, one or two officers of the Corporation attended every co-operative board meeting. Another stipulation under the terms of the loan was that  Mr Smart  would be appointed  chairman  of the board and would also act as managing director. This placed  Mr Smart  in a very strong position. 
On 13 June 1975 the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd went into receivership. The following month  Mr Smart  resigned from all positions in the co-operative because of ill health. I understand that an examination of records in the Prothonotary's Office of the Victoria Supreme Court shows that from November 1971 to May 1975 a series of loan payments were made from co-operative funds to a subsidiary of Marquand and Co. The final payment of $200,000 in May 1975 brought the total to $1,863,000. 1 understand that the co-operative board knew nothing of these payments and that the AIDC did not know either. I also understand that the payments were illegal under the Victorian Co-operatives Act. A total of $1,863,000 was syphoned out of the co-operative's funds! No wonder it went back into the hands of receivers. 
The co-operative has continued to trade under receivership and showed an operating profit for the period ended 28 June 1977 of $1,138,729 and a net profit for that period of $931,735. 1 am sure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you would agree that these are remarkable figures. However, the Australian Industry Development Corporation, as the major lender, has asked that the receivers accept an offer of $ 10m from Protean Holdings Ltd for the only remaining co-operative works at Brooklyn. This would enable the receivers to pay the Corporation out. 
Following a meeting of over 600 co-operative shareholders held at Bendigo on Friday, 24 February, and attended by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier), Mr Jim  Heffernan,  President  of the Victorian Farmers Union, and  Mr Jack  Gilmore,  Chairman  of the Co-operative, travelled to Canberra and put the case before the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Ministers. It is as a result of these discussions that this Bill is now before the House. 
I should like to quote from the auditor's report for the period ending 28 June 1977. The report was signed by  Mr F.  K. Alfredson of Arthur Anderson and Co., chartered accountants, 330 Collins Street, Melbourne. It states: 
In my opinion, however, the amount of $1,138,729 shown as operating profit for the period ended 28 June 1977 in the accompanying profit and loss account is a true and fair view of the operating profit for the period. 
I should also like to quote from the receivers and managers report for the period ending 28 June 1977. The report is signed by J. M. Hilliard and D. A. Crawford, joint and several receivers and managers. It states: 
The trading activity at the Brooklyn Works, which is now the only one owned and operated by the Society, consisted of the operation of a service works. The killing capacity has been increased over that available during the previous year. The favourable conditions resulted in the generation of a positive cash flow, and subject to a continuation of the past year's trading conditions, the Receivers and Managers believe that the Society is capable of trading out of its difficulties subject to the adoption of a reasonable Scheme of Arrangement providing for the repayment of secured and unsecured creditors. 
The Bill empowers the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to guarantee the repayment by the Co-operative society of one half of the principal money borrowed by the Society, that is, up to $4.5m. The Treasurer may not give this guarantee unless the Treasurer for the State of Victoria gives a similar guarantee for the repayment of the other half of the principal money. It is important to realise that the Commonwealth Government will not provide any money unless the Co-operative fails. 
It is vital that the Treasurer use his powers, as set out in the Bill, under the Conditions of Guarantee. Not only should officers of the Australian Public Service have access at all reasonable times, but the Commonwealth Government should be represented on the board of the Cooperative, filling at least two seats. It is vital to the livestock producers throughout Victoria and neighbouring States that Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd be saved from liquidation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he can report on the progress made by the Government in establishing the Australian Rural Bank. Can he inform the House when the Bank will start business? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry examined recommendations made by the Prices Justification Tribunal regarding costs and charges in the wool industry? Will the Government again look at changes in wool marketing? 
I rise to speak on this Primary Industry Bank Amendment Bill at the Committee stage. As we have heard, the Bill is concerned mainly with changing the name of the Australian Rural Bank established by legislation in 1977. The change of name of course does not greatly concern me or most people within primary industries. But there are some questions which give me and participants in the industry considerable concern. I am sure that the appointment of  Mr Walter  Ives as  Chairman  of the Primary Industry Bank will be welcomed by the Parliament and also the people within the industry. We wish him well in this most important position. However, the membership of the board of the Bank has not yet been announced and primary producers all over Australia are awaiting to hear its membership and policy. Interest rates on long term lending will be of major interest to all but the importance of tying interest rates to or reflecting them in some indicator such as the bond rate cannot be overstressed. 
Primary industries are most desirous that the Bank does not become the repository of 'hard core' debt. We all would agree that the capacity to provide long term loans to primary producers for the development of their enterprises must be retained. It is important for the Bank to develop a system of reporting to primary industries. A possible method would be through the monthly Reserve Bank  Statistical Bulletin.  It is also important that the Bank should retain a flexible approach to financing, particularly in times of monetary retraint. The industry is particularly affected by the vagaries of mother nature. For a great many years the pastoral houses of Australia have been assisting primary producers in times of stress. At 30 June 1977 advances by pastoral finance companies stood at $247m. At this date rural indebtedness to the major trading banks stood at $ 1,397m. The major trading banks of course are more committed in the financing of primary industries. However in looking at these figures we can see that the pastoral houses are playing a significant part. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  support the case of the pastoral houses. I sincerely hope that the Bank will continue discussions, which I understand are now under way, with pastoral houses to enable them to participate as lenders under the terms of the Bill. 
I realise that the Bank must be given an opportunity to perform before one can offer constructive criticism or suggestion. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty within primary industries as to the ability of many of the banks and lending institutions properly to assess potential customers. The Commonwealth Development Bank has an excellent pool of rural officers who have training and experience in primary industries as well as banking. Other banks and lending institutions have similar officers and do a very good job of assessment. However, many more do not have this capacity. I cannot stress too strongly the feeling right throughout primary industries on this important factor. The assessment of the potential client is so terribly important. Over previous years we have found in rural areas that the manager of our small country bank has not been trained in this field and has not had to carry out a true type of assessment. Therefore we are worried about how the Primary Industry Bank will be able to succeed. This Bank could possibly bring about the turning point in relation to one of the major problems in our rural industries in Australia. The capacity to fund will be so very important. I support the Bill in its present form and recommend it to the Committee. 
-Has the Treasurer any additional information to give the House concerning the suggestion that a Treasury file on a foreign investment matter is missing? 
-Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce give the House any forward projection about the number of overseas visitors likely to visit Australia? Can the Minister indicate what the Government is doing to assist the Australian tourist industry other than providing increased funding for the Australian Tourist Commission? 
-Can the Prime Minister give any information to the House about the present state of the rural economy in Australia? Is the rural economy assisting the overall economic situation? 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. What are the terms of settlement of the recent tanker drivers dispute in Victoria? How do they affect  Mr Leo  Gorman? Will the Government ensure that  Mr Gorman  can continue to take delivery of fuel supplies with his own trucks and his own employees? 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he has seen newspaper reports indicating that there is to be a reduction in scale of the proposed relocation to Bonegilla of the Army Apprentices' School, the School of Military Survey and the Women's Royal Australian Army Corps Training School. Can the Minister inform the House as to the present plans of the Government for this important project? 
I raise this matter of public importance knowing full well that it is a matter of concern to many thousands of motorists in Australia today. The critical reliance on the motor vehicle throughout this country cannot be overemphasised. Our demographic and economic conditions dictate our continued and increased use of the automobile to a greater degree than most other nations. With our large land mass and relatively small population we have, of course, a low population density and high inter-city distances. When these factors are combined with our relatively high per capita incomes and the not unrelated low population densities within our cities themselves their effect is to discourage the use and better provision of group transport, as is well indicated by the losses incurred by our railway systems throughout the Commonwealth. 
Increased standards of living in Australia have encouraged people to turn away from public transport and to use their private motor vehicle for travelling in work and leisure. The end result is one of the most highly motorised nations in the world with almost one vehicle for every two people, whose standards of living and quality of life are totally interwoven with their ownership and extensive use of the automobile. It is in this context that I and many others including politicians, associations for both consumers and manufacturers, and the ordinary everyday motorist are particularly concerned with the problems of motor vehicle emissions. The nation has imported a set of United States rules and dumped them on Australian motorists with little regard for our unique demographic and meteorological conditions. Even worse, there has been no cost impact study, no cost benefit analysis or regard had for the cost effective ratios. 
The decision to adopt the United States of America 1973 emission requirements from 1 July 1976 was made by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Accordingly, Australian Design Rule 27A covering emissions of hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen and carbonmonoxide was adopted as well as lead emission requirements for New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania. ATAC estimates that the implementation of ADR 27A has increased fuel consumption by 7 per cent. The State Pollution Control Commission of New South Wales in a sample of 189 new vehicles tested between July 1976 and March 1977 showed an increase in fuel consumption of 8 per cent to 10 per cent. The annual cost to the motorist of fitting control devices to our new vehicles is very conservatively estimated at over $50m. When all vehicles are fitted with this equipment the extra annual cost in servicing the vehicles will be of the order of $185m in today's money and the additional fuel bill will be of the order of $265m, which is a total bill of about $500m a year. 
By way of comparison the Commonwealth Government's total expenditure on roads this financial year will be just $508m. We accept that the increasing affluence of Australian cities has been accompanied by a progressive deterioration in air quality and that a measure of public concern has developed in that our urban atmospheres should not continue to absorb motorised and industrial waste. However, at the same time we must balance our considerations between the effect upon the environment of vehicle emission or exhaust gases and the need to conserve our energy resources. None of us would doubt the desirability, indeed the need, for vehicle emission controls. That is a factor recognised by all individuals or groups involved in the vehicle industry as consumers, manufacturers, importers, dealers or retailers. What is necessary is that time be given to manufacturers to develop a vehicle emission control system that both reduces the level of pollutants emitted and either reduces or retains present fuel consumption levels. A balanced policy should be adopted by all governments, both State and Federal, whereby manufacturers are assisted and encouraged to proceed along this path rather than forced into adopting new rules, with a detrimental effect upon energy conservation. 
At its February 1978 meeting the Australian Transport Advisory Council agreed to defer until 1979 any decision to recommend to individual State and Territory governments the imposition of more stringent laws limiting automobile emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen- as per ADR 27A. In addition, lead emissions controlled by State regulations in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong, and also in Victoria and Tasmania, can be altered at any time under the State clean air Acts. One of the major difficulties in dealing with the general issue of vehicle emission controls and standards is the spread of portfolio responsibilities, particularly at the State level. Departments of transport, environment, energy and health can be or are often involved. In some States the main responsibility associated with vehicle emissions is exercised by environmental authorities while in other States the transport authorities exercise the responsibility. 
There is an inadequacy in the advisory structure which exists within the Federal and State governments for advice on vehicle emission controls. There are often overlapping charters in these bodies which can lead to conflicting advice being given to Ministers at both the Federal and State levels. It is imperative that the Federal and State governments adopt a national energy conservation policy with a balance between environmental and fuel economy requirements. One State should not unilaterally adopt its own harsh standards of emission control even though it may have the constitutional power to do so. 
It is not at all clear that sound scientific evidence exists as to the deleterious health effects on which to justify the introduction of costly emission controls. We are not aware of any work that has established a causal relationship between carbon dioxide, hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen, or lead, and health risks at measured levels of these pollutants in Australian cities. Nor is it clear, despite some unsupported statements, what the contribution of motor vehicles is to the total levels of these pollutants. For example, the overall contribution of the automobile to United 
States air pollution was recently estimated to be only 4 per cent. 
Whilst acknowledging that photochemical smog has proven health and minor property risks, at greater than existing levels of pollution in Australian cities, its formation is not well understood and, more crucially, the effect of reducing vehicle emissions on the formation of photochemical smog is not established. In fact, for more than a decade, and as recently reported in the United States study, it has been alleged that the reduction of certain hydrocarbons emitted by vehicles will, under conditions common to a number of United States cities, increase photochemical smog. I should add that the brown haze sometimes seen over Sydney, for example, may not be photochemical smog, and neither is its chemical formation properly understood. 
Implicit in these comments is criticism of the World Health Organisation pollution goals, originally set in the 1950's, and also the National Health and Medical Research Council recommendations on lead, both of which are based, it would appear from the literature available, on tenuous scientific assumptions which need careful re-examination to determine their applicability, in view of changed economic and technical circumstances and in the light of new evidence, particularly to Australian demographic and meteorological conditions. The World Health Organisation has recently, in 1977, reviewed its recommendations on air quality goals. This implies a substantial relaxation from its original targets. In addition, the National Health and Medical Research Council is at present reviewing its earlier recommendations on lead. Whilst the proven benefits of emission controls are small and the alleged substantial benefits questionable, the costs are very real and are a major drain on the nation's limited resources. It is also clear that the total costs of such emission controls, both to individuals and the nation as a whole, have been looked at with less than great care, particularly now that we have been jolted into the real world of impending liquid fuel shortages. In this situation the efficient use of a barrel of oil will be critical to the economic survival of this country. 
Any proposal which would reduce the usable energy output of a barrel of oil by, for example, increasing the energy input in refining or the energy cost of the nation 's transport is a proposal to the detriment of Australian society as a whole. Whilst it is most desirable that fossil fuels should not pollute our atmosphere, it is essential that mobility and accessibility of goods and passengers is maintained and improved. There is no alternative technology available in the foreseeable future to provide the mobility that liquid fuels can, and no amount of wishful thinking is going to alter this fact. The consumption of energy resources in Australia must now be given priority over aims of further reducing motor vehicle pollution. Studies and investigations conducted by the automotive industry recognise the national importance of energy conservation. Vehicle manufacturers have shown a willingness to set themselves mandatory fuel consumption reduction targets. This indicates an awareness and desire to meet the public demand. 
Even if emission controls do have a sound basis in substantial proven benefits, which they do not the problem is confined to a few square kilometres in the centres of our larger cities, and all motoring Australians living and working outside those areas are asked to pay for a problem which is theirs neither in manufacture nor consumption. Motorists from all over Australia are carrying this heavy cost day in and day out for the benefit of those who live and work in the centres of metropolitan Melbourne and Sydney, and even then possibly to help ease a problem which exists for a very few days in the year. The imposition of these emission controls is, in the main, a direct result of traffic congestion caused by poor inner-city traffic management and a lack of* efficient trans-central business district traffic networks. For example, recent surveys suggest that approximately 60 per cent of Sydney's central business district traffic is transitory. Thus the provision of efficient trans-urban road networks could well remove any perceived need for those controls already introduced and certainly forstall any need for stricter emission controls in the future. In addition, the savings in previous energy reserves would be enormous. One dramatic example is that over 40 per cent of fuel used in Melbourne's city centre is consumed when cars are idling. 
If common sense prevails ADR27A will be reviewed by the motor industry and environmental interests as a whole. If common sense prevails, time will be allowed for ADR27A to become fully applied and fully effective without the community being prematurely plunged into further expensive and fuel hungry measures. I commend this matter of public importance to this House, this Parliament and every State parliament in Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)-  by leave- adjourned. 
-My question is to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware of bans and limitations on work by Australian Postal Commission and Australian Telecommunications Commission employees in the pursuit of higher wages? What action is the Government prepared to take? 
I rise in this grievance debate to lament the fact that the full story of the achievements and reforms implemented by the Hamer Liberal Government in Victoria over the last three years have not been presented to the people of Victoria and particularly to the people of Australia. One continually reads in newspapers and magazines, hears on radio and sees on television varying degrees of criticism of the Victorian Government. Even the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  has joined forces with the media. It disturbs me greatly in this time of economic difficulty and stress that politicians and the various forms of the media cannot work more closely together with the sole aim of solving the country's many problems and eventually achieving the society we all desire. 
In the short time available to me, I will endeavour to put the other side of the story by pointing out some of the many achievements and reforms for which the Victorian Government is responsible. It is important to note that Victoria has the lowest rate of unemployment in Australia, the highest savings bank deposits per head in Australia- $1775 per head in Victoria compared with $1300 per head for Australiaand the highest rate of home ownership in the world. Victoria has the lowest road toll; it has dropped from 8.1 to 4.6 per 10,000 vehicles as a result of the Hamer Government's road reforms. Victoria has the best ratio of pupils to teachers of any State. In fact, Victoria leads the nation in so many aspects that it is quite clear that it must be enjoying good government. 
During the past three years in Victoria, approved loans and subsidies of over $55m have been injected into the rural community through the Rural Finance Commission, a truly wonderful friend to the farmer, particularly during the recent rural depression. Farmers who were paying 10.5 per cent interest on Commission loans have now had their interest rates reduced to 9.5 per cent per annum. The actions of the Victorian Government have enabled substantial concessions on registration and insurance fees to be applied to a wide range of farm vehicles. Victoria is the only State which has helped dairy farmers by guaranteeing dairy produce prices. Showing its great concern for the well-being of this industry, the Victorian Government has also established the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority with a strong emphasis on marketing. A livestock market reporting service has been established, thus providing the livestock producer with accurate information on ruling market prices. During the beef depression, the Victorian Government provided a slaughter bounty and financial assistance of enormous benefit to the beef producer. It is protecting Australia's grain exports by adopting tough measures to deal with grain insects and it has assisted this industry by establishing a single grain handling authority. It has established the Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Market Trust, and also with New South Wales initiated wine grape pricing legislation to help stabilise that industry. 
Over the last three years, the Victorian Development Corporation has made a major contribution to the establishment and expansion of decentralised manufacturing industry, and to the growth of tourist facilities throughout the State. Long-term concessional rate loans totalling approximately $30m have been approved by the Corporation in that period. Accumulated loan assistance provided by the Corporation since its inception in 1973 now exceeds $42m. These loans have materially assisted the creation and saving of jobs in Victorian country areas. The Victorian Government recognises that for every two new jobs created in the tourist industry, one extra support job is created. The Victorian 
Government has formed a soundly based network of regional tourist bodies, financed in partnership with local government and industry, to promote Victoria as a tourist destination. Financial assistance has been given to local councils to improve the quantity and quality of publicly owned tourist facilities. 
The Victorian Government is acutely aware of the benefits of decentralised industry to our society. The Department of State Development offers direct financial incentives to industries located outside an 80 kilometre radius of Melbourne and more than 675 new companies have been established under this scheme. Over 50,000 people have been employed in decentralised industries as a result of Victorian Government support. Some of the incentives under this scheme are cash grants, in approved cases, for each new staff member employed; a percentage rebate of payroll tax up to 100 per cent; land tax rebates of up to 100 per cent for approved decentralised secondary industry; housing assistance to build or buy houses for individuals or companies participating in the decentralisation scheme; grants for removal costs of personnel moving to the country; the reimbursement of whole or part of the costs for moving plant or machinery; freight subsidies and road transport rebates; and negotiated gas and electricity contracts. 
The Victorian Government recognises the need to develop and expand export markets. The new Import and Export Promotion Division operates in overseas countries, finding markets for Victorian products. The Division also encourages international investment, brings in trade missions, and helps international firms establish offices and factories in Victoria thus providing more jobs. The new World Trade Centre will be built in Melbourne, linking Victorian industry with the world. This massive complex will house small as well as large businesses under the same roof as shippers and overseas legations. The project will provide thousands of jobs through the opening of new markets. 
The Liberal Government in Victoria places great importance on the provision of power for industry and the growth of the community. The natural gas supply grid is being extended further into country areas, providing cheaper energy and creating many more jobs. Victoria is playing a leading role in research into the uses of solar energy and, in co-operation with the Commonwealth Government, other States and the media, is conducting a national campaign to encourage and advise on the conservation of liquid fuels. The insulation of homes at low cost is being promoted by the Gas and Fuel Corporation. To encourage the most effective and economical use of different forms of energy, the Corporation and the State Electricity Commission of Victoria operate advisory services. Crude oil produced at Bass Strait provides much of Australia's petrol needs. Increased activity in exploration for oil and gas has resulted from Commonwealth Government incentives, fully supported by the Victorian Government. 
The importance of local government, the third tier of government, is fully recognised. In Victoria, 211 local government bodies operate under a State Act of Parliament administered by the Department of Local Government. Such things as deferral or exemption from paying rates for people suffering undue and unusual hardship have been implemented, and there has been an increase to 50 per cent in pensioner rate rebate. There is a continuing close liaison between State and local government, and reviews of the role, structure and rating systems of local government are now being undertaken. One could go on for a long time listing the achievements of the Victorian Hamer Liberal Government in such areas as health, education, sport, the arts and housing. However, time will not permit. I want to emphasise to this House, to the people of Australia and particularly to the people of Victoria that these successes do not emanate from one man alone; it takes a team effort. Good leadership, good Ministers and good government members make for good government. This is what Victoria has had for the past three years, and this is what Victoria will continue to have for the next three years by returning the Hamer Liberal Government on 5 May. 
-Can the Minister for National Development inform the House of progress made in the conversion of government vehicles to the use of liquid petroleum gas? Can the Minister also report the efficiency of this alternative fuel? 
-Is the Minister for National Development aware that Avgas supplies in New South Wales and Victoria have been virtually exhausted? Can he inform the House when further supplies will be available? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Which cities are regarded as metropolitan for telephone purposes. 
How many subscribers expressed as a percentage of the population were there in each of these metropolitan centres during (a) 1976-77 and (b) 1 July 1978 to date. 
How many subscribers expressed as a percentage of the population were there in (a) Albany, (b) AlburyWodonga, (c) Ballarat, (d) Bendigo, (e) Geelong, (f) Hamilton, (g) Tamworth, (h) Townsville and (j) Wagga Wagga, during (i) 1 976-77 and (ii) 1 July 1 978 to date. 
How many trunk/STD calls were made both ways between each metropolitan centre and each of the provincial centres referred to in pan (3) during 1976-77 and what was the call revenue in each case. 
What proportion of this revenue was derived from (a) business subscribers and ( b) domestic subscribers. 
What was the average duration of calls referred to in part (4). 
During 1976-77, what proportion of trunk/STD and local calls (a) to and (b) from the provincial centres referred to in pan (3) were within 100 km. 
How are the charge fee distances listed by Telecom established and do they relate to the nearest boundary of the directory area or local call zone from exchange to exchange. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) What priority has been given to the introduction of biological control of the weed, Bathurst burr? 
Does the CSIRO acknowledge that the means for biological control of Bathurst burr are available overseas? 
What resources would be necessary to implement these control measures as a matter of urgency? 
-Can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform the House of the effect on the Australian work force if the Australian Council of Trade Unions wages policy were to be implemented? 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the running cost and pollution advantages of using liquefied petroleum gas and diesel fuel for powering motor vehicles. Will the Minister advise the House on the steps that are being taken by vehicle manufacturers to offer alternative fuel systems to car buyers? Will the Minister consider reducing duty on motor vehicles entering Australia which are designed to use LPG, diesel fuel or compressed natural gas as a method of conserving petroleum supplies, reducing pollution and overcoming the shortage of this type of vehicle in Australia? 

 Mr LYNCH I am very much aware, as is the Government, that there can be significant advantages from the point of view of running costs and also of pollution in using alternative fuels such as LPG and diesel for powering motor vehicles. The House will be aware of the very comprehensive statement made by the Prime Minister in relation to energy conservation and development. As part of that statement the Prime Minister indicated the Government's objective of having LPG fuelled vehicles built on production lines in Australia. Since that time intensive discussions at ministerial level have been held with the industry and we have met with the executive of the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries. The industry has raised a number of issues which are pertinent to the Government's objective. It, of course, pointed to the need for revised safety standards for LPG equipment and their uniform application throughout Australia. These issues are at the present time under very active examination in Victoria by the Standards Association of Australia and the LPG task force. In the meantime, the companies themselves are actively examining the technical and commercial aspects of LPG production with a view to introducing such vehicles onto the production line. 
So far as diesel is concerned, there has been less demand in this country for diesel powered cars than there has been in Europe and the United States. This is partly explained by the absence of a significant differential between the price of diesel fuel and petrol in this country. But demand for diesel powered vehicles is certainly increasing. One local producer at the present time has commenced assembly of a diesel engine powered car and several other models are being imported. 
In response to the honourable member's query about the question of duty, the Government is not contemplating any reduction of duty on cars entering Australia which are designed to use LPG, CNG or diesel fuel. It is, of course, open to any importer to introduce such cars into Australia through the existing import arrangements. I am aware that at the present time there are supply constraints abroad and also that some of those arrangements have a degree of inflexibility which the Government is considering at the present time. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 31 May 1979: 
1 ) How many local manually connected trunk and STD telephone calls can the Telecom national network carry at any one time. 
At what capacity is the Telecom national telephone network being currently utilised on a percentage basis on each hour throughout the average week day. 
It gives me a great deal of pleasure to speak in this debate and particularly to make a personal assessment of the success or otherwise of the House of Representatives Estimates committees. I was a member of Estimates Committee B. I must say that when it was first formulated and the lists were made up, I was a little reluctant to participate because I felt there were many other important things to be done. However, becoming involved with the Committee was a great experience. As the proceedings developed and we went on to deal with department after department I became quite enthralled. I agree with other speakers in the debate that there could be some improvements in the committees. I felt that the main criticism was the amount of time spent on some departments. Just one hour was allotted to deal with a major department. This seemed to me far too short a time. Possibly when we look at the Estimates committees in 1980 we might be able to allocate more time to consider the estimates of the departments on which we ran short of time. 
One of the departments that Estimates Committee B had before it was the Department of Science and the Environment. I have been particularly interested in the biological control of weeds. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has been doing great work in the biological control of weeds. We witnessed the program dealing with skeleton weed and the recently proved program on Paterson 's curse. I have been plugging for some biological program to be implemented on Bathurst burr. I have been making private investigations within CSIRO. I have been getting answers but they were not the sorts of answers I got at the Committee meeting. That is what I thought was so good. The experts from CSIRO were sitting there with the Minister and we got the answers straight from the shoulder. 
-The program on Paterson 's curse is a success; we are on the way. We have to win the battle with Bathurst burr. 
-The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who is at the table has had experience with Bathurst burr. The thing that really worried me about the answers we received was that only 12 permanent staff were involved in this biological control program. When the farmer is dealing with these very serious weeds today he has to use chemical control. Chemicals, like petrol and diesel fuel, are becoming very expensive. Their price is going beyond the budget of the normal farmer. In addition, the environmentalist is totally opposed to the use of chemicals for the control of weeds or insects. I feel that the Government should be looking seriously at providing funding for a great many more professional men in this field so that we can use biological control instead of relying on chemical control. 
The second matter that 1 was very interested in concerning the Department of Primary Industry was the threatening locust plague. Of course, we have had good warning as to the potential extent of the locust plague. The egg beds throughout the Riverina and western New South Wales are very extensive, and they have been well plotted. We have to make sure that we win the battle against the prospective locust plague. 
Today, as we all know, the farmer is starting on the road to recovery. Prices are good and, in the main, seasons are very good. But western New South Wales, the Riverina and, in particular, north and north-eastern Victoria, will be under serious threat if these egg beds hatch out, and all the experts are sure that they will. It is at this stage that the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government through the Australian Plague Locust Commission, which operates in conjunction with the States, must hit and hit hard. When I asked a question on this subject of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  I was pleased to hear him say: 
Additional sums can and will be made available through additional estimates if and when required. If this plague locust problem turns out to be more significant than in other years, appropriate funds will be made available by the Government. 
When I heard those words, I though that we had a very good chance of controlling this plague. It will be a great test because potentially it is a big plague. Everybody is poised to go. I am assured that we have 100 tonnes of insecticides on hand and that this will be enough for the initial campaign. I was assured at Estimates Committee B that if the threat continues through into the autumn, further supplies of insecticide will be available. I understand that the Australian Plague Locust Commission is about to order more insecticide to make sure that we cover that. 
I did not ask that question, but if the honourable member for Isaacs asks that question of the Minister no doubt he will get an answer. I am not worried about what type of insecticide it is as long as it kills locusts. 
The third item I wish to mention is the program for carcass classification. I was interested to see in the estimates that $1,195,000 has been set aside for the carcass classification investigatory program for the forthcoming year. There have been problems with developing the program. The use of mechanical equipment to automate carcass classification has been tantamount to complete failure at this stage. I have no doubt that some equipment will be developed. Work is going on to try to find equipment that will do this. The bulk of this money will be aimed at developing the visual classification program. 
Meat producers throughout Australia are awaiting the implementation of classification. One can but wish well the people who are doing this work. The money seems to be adequate. I hope that we will be able to perfect the system and get it implemented. At the moment meat is in great demand. The introduction of classification at this stage would be advantageous because the costs can be covered while the incomes are good and before there is any drop in meat prices. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce, in his capacity as Minister responsible for tourism: Can he give the House the number of overseas visitors arriving in 
Australia? What significance does the Minister place on these results? Can he indicate the effect the Government's measures are having in assisting the tourist industry? 
